{"date": "2008-03-21T14:37:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "If the Republican presidential nominee ever doubted liberal activist groups' commitment to his continued embarrassment, he should doubt no longer.The Campaign for America's Future, which sponsored this week's proudly left-leaning Take Back America confab in the capital, is seizing on McCain's visit to France with a new internet advert. The (admittedly corny) script savages McCain once again for enabling the European defence company Airbus to score a $40bn aircraft contract earlier this month.Check out the video below, and raise your hand if you're unnerved by US liberal groups resorting to the same sort of anti-French stereotypes that rightwing loonies employed during the heyday of the Iraq war:", "tags": ["Politics", "John McCain", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Hero de la France"},{"date": "2008-06-18T10:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "President Nicolas Sarkozy has just announced the biggest military shakeup in France in generations \u2013 since in fact, since 1966, when President de Gaulle, in a typically Gallic gesture, pulled France out of the military command structure of Nato, to defy the Americans.Now France is to rejoin the military formation of Nato, the forces are to be trimmed and updated to face the growing threat from international terrorism and its sponsors, the president told a gathering of some 3,000 military officers and officials. This means that France will take the role of the principal point of contact between Nato and America and the EU's security and defence structure. French forces will be working more closely with their British allies in places like Afghanistan where Sarkozy has already sent an extra battalion battle group this year. When France rejoins the Nato command later this year, France with Britain will be the two leading European Nato powers. They alone among Europeans can send a fully equipped and trained armoured division, the key formation of up to 30,000 troops, into a major combat operation overseas.There will be increased burden-sharing in places like Afghanistan and the Horn of Africa and in combating piracy, an increasing menace across the world.France is due to cut combat forces in all three services from the present 271,000 to 224,000, and intends to spend \u20ac377bn on defence and security over the next 11 years \u2013 still a smaller amount than the UK will spend in the same period. Some 50,000 jobs are to be cut in the defence civil service.The main reason for the reform is the desperate need to overhaul France's somewhat antiquated forces and to prepare them for more agile peacekeeping, humanitarian and counterinsurgency operations. New surveillance and control satellites are to be ordered, a new intelligence committee set-up, and a special counter-terrorism force of 10,000 is to be trained for internal security as well as operations abroad. France still intends to maintain its homegrown ballistic nuclear weapons, carried by submarines and aircraft. This is hugely expensive and takes between a quarter and a third of the annual defence budget. Now there is a possibility of sharing technology with Britain and the US.More to the point, France wants to make even closer ties with Britain and the US, the \"cousins\", in intelligence \u2013 particularly in the fields of jihadi terrorism. The reforms are likely to draw Britain and France closer. Much of new French thinking has been coloured by the writings of General Rupert Smith whose book Utility of Force is now taught in French staff colleges and military academies. He said that light flexible forces are required to fight the 21st century's new \"wars among the people\".Interestingly, his ideas have been embraced more warmly by the French than the British defence establishment. Last week, in outlining his blueprint for the new British army, General Sir Richard Dannatt, chief of general staff, said he disagreed with Smith that the nature of war and conflict in the world today has undergone a fundamental shift from the \"heavy metal\" industrial wars from the campaigns of Napoleon to the second world war.The heirs of Napoleon, though not of Wellington, clearly think he is right.", "tags": ["France", "Nato", "UK news", "US news", "Afghanistan", "Iraq", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Robert Fox: France's move back into Nato is a canny one by Sarkozy"},{"date": "2008-09-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "A French micro wind-turbine developer, that has managed to rabidly grow to a considerable size in a relatively short time period. The company has further significant expansion plans for the near future and is looking at potential partnerships for international expansion. \u00b7 Based in Fay aux Loges, France\u00b7 116 employees\u00b7 Founded in 2003\u00b7 Product is shipping\u00b7 www.france-eoliennes.comSee the whole list, plus features and comment, at2008 Guardian/Library House CleanTech 100How the companies were selectedData supplied by Library House", "tags": ["Cleantech 100 wind power", "Environment", "Technology", "Energy"], "title": "CleanTech 100: Wind power: France Eoli\u00e8nnes"},{"date": "2008-09-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "A French micro wind-turbine developer, that has managed to rabidly grow to a considerable size in a relatively short time period. The company has further significant expansion plans for the near future and is looking at potential partnerships for international expansion. \u00b7 Based in Fay aux Loges, France\u00b7 116 employees\u00b7 Founded in 2003\u00b7 Product is shipping\u00b7 www.france-eoliennes.comSee the whole list, plus features and comment, at2008 Guardian/Library House CleanTech 100How the companies were selectedData supplied by Library House", "tags": ["Cleantech 100 wind power", "Environment", "Technology", "Energy"], "title": "CleanTech 100: Wind power: France Eoli\u00e8nnes"},{"date": "2008-09-16T10:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We English tend to think that the French don't do cool. Back in the day, French music was filed under \"World\" and consisted of the dirge-like ballads of Edith Piaf, Charles Aznavour and Jacques Brel (who was Belgian anyway). The advent of the 1990s and Daft Punk went some way towards changing that. French music slipped its way out of \"World\" and into those categories previously the exclusive preserve of Anglophone artists. The French even turned to hip-hop, and were more adventurous and less slavishly tied to the US original than on this side of the Channel as the soundtrack to La Haine back in 1995 (our first real introduction to French rap) demonstrated. Then came parkour. And parkour was cool. Parkour was impressive, as any search for David Belle on dailymotion or YouTube will demonstrate. It was urban. It came from the rough streets of those burning banlieues we're always hearing about. It was physically demanding too and that seemed to make it even cooler. Now it's called \"free-running\" and the UK government is investing in it, setting up a national governing body and providing qualifications in parkour training. No doubt this is very good for the safety of the nation's youth, but it makes the whole thing much less cool. There's nothing like the government getting its hands on a craze and stamping it with safety guidance for taking the fun out of it. Of course this kind of appropriation of cultural phenomena is nothing new. Governments do it, as in the case of parkour, but business does it better. Skateboarding, to take one example, has made quite a transition from the empty swimming pools of Venice Beach to the worldwide competitions, video games and multimillion pound empires of the present day and we might well wonder what it has lost and gained along the way. So what of the next French craze ripe for appropriation? Well, there is Tecktonik, as revealed to the readers of the Guardian back in March. Tecktonik has all the markers of a good youth craze. Groups of impassioned kids get together in small teams and perform it in public spaces. You can also watch them doing it on YouTube and dailymotion and marvel at their skills. It has a look (fluorescent clothes, sculpted hair, tight, tight trousers); it has idols,  Mondotek and Yelle being the most well-known. It has an ethos too. Rather a nice ethos. It's all clean living in the world of Tecktonik and the videos on the internet feature serious teenagers discussing the virtues of that cleanliness and then segueing neatly into the complex arm movements that are the markers of their dance. It's all rather a long way, if we are to believe the front pages of our national press, from the binge drinking performed by our teenagers in public places.Tecktonik also has a business empire up and running. The creators of the first major Tecktonik club night at the Metropolis in Rungis, Cyril Blanc and Alexandre Barouzdin, have trademarked the name. And they've got the advertising industry all excited. Tecktonik is promoted by word of mouth; it's a fine example of viral branding. And it works. There are CD compilations and a clothing line and a Nintendo game is in the pipeline (release due in November). So this particular craze comes ready packaged and with a message ripe for government approval. But is it cool? Cool has always implied a kind of authenticity apart from the machinations of corporate branding. Can the Tecktonik brand be embraced by UK kids or will this particular movement just bypass the cool phase altogether and instead be championed by the government as a groovy treatment for childhood obesity? Interestingly the business connection does not trouble the French kids, who still meet and still dance despite the labels, the albums and the high volume of T-shirt sales. So perhaps the French have reinvented cool altogether. It's older, it's wiser and it might just have a business plan.", "tags": ["Music", "France", "Dance", "Culture", "World news", "Dance music", "Europe"], "title": "Genevieve Maitland Hudson: A new French dance could have reinvented cool"},{"date": "2008-09-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "A French micro wind-turbine developer, that has managed to rabidly grow to a considerable size in a relatively short time period. The company has further significant expansion plans for the near future and is looking at potential partnerships for international expansion. \u00b7 Based in Fay aux Loges, France\u00b7 116 employees\u00b7 Founded in 2003\u00b7 Product is shipping\u00b7 www.france-eoliennes.comSee the whole list, plus features and comment, at2008 Guardian/Library House CleanTech 100How the companies were selectedData supplied by Library House", "tags": ["Cleantech 100 wind power", "Environment", "Technology", "Energy"], "title": "CleanTech 100: Wind power: France Eoli\u00e8nnes"},{"date": "2008-09-16T10:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We English tend to think that the French don't do cool. Back in the day, French music was filed under \"World\" and consisted of the dirge-like ballads of Edith Piaf, Charles Aznavour and Jacques Brel (who was Belgian anyway). The advent of the 1990s and Daft Punk went some way towards changing that. French music slipped its way out of \"World\" and into those categories previously the exclusive preserve of Anglophone artists. The French even turned to hip-hop, and were more adventurous and less slavishly tied to the US original than on this side of the Channel as the soundtrack to La Haine back in 1995 (our first real introduction to French rap) demonstrated. Then came parkour. And parkour was cool. Parkour was impressive, as any search for David Belle on dailymotion or YouTube will demonstrate. It was urban. It came from the rough streets of those burning banlieues we're always hearing about. It was physically demanding too and that seemed to make it even cooler. Now it's called \"free-running\" and the UK government is investing in it, setting up a national governing body and providing qualifications in parkour training. No doubt this is very good for the safety of the nation's youth, but it makes the whole thing much less cool. There's nothing like the government getting its hands on a craze and stamping it with safety guidance for taking the fun out of it. Of course this kind of appropriation of cultural phenomena is nothing new. Governments do it, as in the case of parkour, but business does it better. Skateboarding, to take one example, has made quite a transition from the empty swimming pools of Venice Beach to the worldwide competitions, video games and multimillion pound empires of the present day and we might well wonder what it has lost and gained along the way. So what of the next French craze ripe for appropriation? Well, there is Tecktonik, as revealed to the readers of the Guardian back in March. Tecktonik has all the markers of a good youth craze. Groups of impassioned kids get together in small teams and perform it in public spaces. You can also watch them doing it on YouTube and dailymotion and marvel at their skills. It has a look (fluorescent clothes, sculpted hair, tight, tight trousers); it has idols,  Mondotek and Yelle being the most well-known. It has an ethos too. Rather a nice ethos. It's all clean living in the world of Tecktonik and the videos on the internet feature serious teenagers discussing the virtues of that cleanliness and then segueing neatly into the complex arm movements that are the markers of their dance. It's all rather a long way, if we are to believe the front pages of our national press, from the binge drinking performed by our teenagers in public places.Tecktonik also has a business empire up and running. The creators of the first major Tecktonik club night at the Metropolis in Rungis, Cyril Blanc and Alexandre Barouzdin, have trademarked the name. And they've got the advertising industry all excited. Tecktonik is promoted by word of mouth; it's a fine example of viral branding. And it works. There are CD compilations and a clothing line and a Nintendo game is in the pipeline (release due in November). So this particular craze comes ready packaged and with a message ripe for government approval. But is it cool? Cool has always implied a kind of authenticity apart from the machinations of corporate branding. Can the Tecktonik brand be embraced by UK kids or will this particular movement just bypass the cool phase altogether and instead be championed by the government as a groovy treatment for childhood obesity? Interestingly the business connection does not trouble the French kids, who still meet and still dance despite the labels, the albums and the high volume of T-shirt sales. So perhaps the French have reinvented cool altogether. It's older, it's wiser and it might just have a business plan.", "tags": ["Music", "France", "Dance", "Culture", "World news", "Dance music", "Europe"], "title": "Genevieve Maitland Hudson: A new French dance could have reinvented cool"},{"date": "2008-08-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "It's been so long... The last one should have been the two weeks in Sri Lanka over Christmas and New Year 2004/5, but it was hard to kick back and really chill in a country that had been devastated by a natural disaster on the very day we had arrived. And yes - that comment is knowingly narcissistic: if there have been two weeks in my life other than those 14 post-tsunami days when I have thought less about myself and more about the bigger picture then I can't recall them. So, aside from a few snatched days here and there, in Wales and Suffolk and Spain, and that final pre-birth blow-out in a Four Seasons in Bali when I was five months pregnant with my firstborn, all of which involved note-taking for professional purposes - though admittedly this was no great hardship - the last time I'd been on a proper no-strings, you-pays-yer-money sort of holiday was in Kerala at the tail-end of 2001, when I was a mere 12 weeks pregnant. My eldest turned six last Monday, so it's fair to say I've probably needed one for a while.For ages I couldn't really work out how I was going to have any sort of holiday with my offspring that may conceivably involve relaxation. Hurling a credit card at the problem by booking an all-inclusive with hot-and-cold running kids' clubs and en-suite baby nannies to keep the small people entertained while I sat on a sun-lounger hiding behind Christopher Ciccone's stitch-up of his big sister (riveting, but very wrong) didn't really appeal. Meanwhile, the prospect of CenterParcs - perhaps the most smugly preening nuclear family-orientated holiday experience ever - was terrifying. I envisaged myself dining alone with small children in mid-sugar rush while parents covered the eyes of their 2.4s, whispering.Don't let anybody attempt to persuade you there is no stigma attached to single-parenthood any more, much less among the middle classes. Couples with kids don't really want you near them in case it's a form of measles, while singles and the child-free observe you with bemused detachment and think 'What fresh hell...?'Nonetheless, given that there are so many of us I'm amazed how limited the holiday options are for single parents. I'd be far too embarrassed ever to ask my coupled-up friends with kids if I could make a gooseberry fool of myself, so what - aside from a rented cottage in Cornwall with nights spent weeping into the gin - is the alternative? Well, a couple of weeks ago circumstances happily conspired to let me find out, without resorting to Mother's Ruin. A few months ago I had a call from Shirley, who, in the absence of my own (alive, but a long way away), has been a surrogate mother to me since 1980, when I met her daughter, Claudia, on our first day at sixth-form college. Claudia and I became besties and I adopted her family, who, compared with my own, seemed to me to be the very model of warmth, kindness, generosity and functionality. After the intensity of our teenage years, Claudia and I have lived very different lives but retain a sibling fondness. She now lives in Australia and has two children, almost exactly the same ages as mine.'Claudia's coming this summer and bringing the children,' said Shirley, from her home in south-west France. 'You must come. And of course Mark [Claudia's brother] and Gail are here with Oscar, so there would be three boys all the same age, and then the little ones...'. I didn't need any more of the soft-sell.'Do you know anywhere I could stay?''Oh, you must stay at Alex's house...'.Blessed indeed is the exceptionally tired single mother-of-two with old friends who own holiday homes in attractive bits of France. Weeks later, sitting on my lovely borrowed hill overlooking the valleys where the rivers Lot and Garonne converge, nursing a glass of ros\u00e9 while watching a posse of newly bonded small children colliding on the trampoline, I thought, 'You lucky cow.' It took another 10 days to begin to relax, of course (I blame the trampoline), but then I'm out of practice. 'You will come back, won't you?' said Shirley, but I think she knew the answer. The children would never forgive me if we didn't.kathryn.flett@observer.co.uk", "tags": ["Family", "Life and style"], "title": "Kathryn Flett enjoys her single parent break in France"},{"date": "2008-09-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "A French micro wind-turbine developer, that has managed to rabidly grow to a considerable size in a relatively short time period. The company has further significant expansion plans for the near future and is looking at potential partnerships for international expansion. \u00b7 Based in Fay aux Loges, France\u00b7 116 employees\u00b7 Founded in 2003\u00b7 Product is shipping\u00b7 www.france-eoliennes.comSee the whole list, plus features and comment, at2008 Guardian/Library House CleanTech 100How the companies were selectedData supplied by Library House", "tags": ["Cleantech 100 wind power", "Environment", "Technology", "Energy"], "title": "CleanTech 100: Wind power: France Eoli\u00e8nnes"},{"date": "2008-09-16T10:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We English tend to think that the French don't do cool. Back in the day, French music was filed under \"World\" and consisted of the dirge-like ballads of Edith Piaf, Charles Aznavour and Jacques Brel (who was Belgian anyway). The advent of the 1990s and Daft Punk went some way towards changing that. French music slipped its way out of \"World\" and into those categories previously the exclusive preserve of Anglophone artists. The French even turned to hip-hop, and were more adventurous and less slavishly tied to the US original than on this side of the Channel as the soundtrack to La Haine back in 1995 (our first real introduction to French rap) demonstrated. Then came parkour. And parkour was cool. Parkour was impressive, as any search for David Belle on dailymotion or YouTube will demonstrate. It was urban. It came from the rough streets of those burning banlieues we're always hearing about. It was physically demanding too and that seemed to make it even cooler. Now it's called \"free-running\" and the UK government is investing in it, setting up a national governing body and providing qualifications in parkour training. No doubt this is very good for the safety of the nation's youth, but it makes the whole thing much less cool. There's nothing like the government getting its hands on a craze and stamping it with safety guidance for taking the fun out of it. Of course this kind of appropriation of cultural phenomena is nothing new. Governments do it, as in the case of parkour, but business does it better. Skateboarding, to take one example, has made quite a transition from the empty swimming pools of Venice Beach to the worldwide competitions, video games and multimillion pound empires of the present day and we might well wonder what it has lost and gained along the way. So what of the next French craze ripe for appropriation? Well, there is Tecktonik, as revealed to the readers of the Guardian back in March. Tecktonik has all the markers of a good youth craze. Groups of impassioned kids get together in small teams and perform it in public spaces. You can also watch them doing it on YouTube and dailymotion and marvel at their skills. It has a look (fluorescent clothes, sculpted hair, tight, tight trousers); it has idols,  Mondotek and Yelle being the most well-known. It has an ethos too. Rather a nice ethos. It's all clean living in the world of Tecktonik and the videos on the internet feature serious teenagers discussing the virtues of that cleanliness and then segueing neatly into the complex arm movements that are the markers of their dance. It's all rather a long way, if we are to believe the front pages of our national press, from the binge drinking performed by our teenagers in public places.Tecktonik also has a business empire up and running. The creators of the first major Tecktonik club night at the Metropolis in Rungis, Cyril Blanc and Alexandre Barouzdin, have trademarked the name. And they've got the advertising industry all excited. Tecktonik is promoted by word of mouth; it's a fine example of viral branding. And it works. There are CD compilations and a clothing line and a Nintendo game is in the pipeline (release due in November). So this particular craze comes ready packaged and with a message ripe for government approval. But is it cool? Cool has always implied a kind of authenticity apart from the machinations of corporate branding. Can the Tecktonik brand be embraced by UK kids or will this particular movement just bypass the cool phase altogether and instead be championed by the government as a groovy treatment for childhood obesity? Interestingly the business connection does not trouble the French kids, who still meet and still dance despite the labels, the albums and the high volume of T-shirt sales. So perhaps the French have reinvented cool altogether. It's older, it's wiser and it might just have a business plan.", "tags": ["Music", "France", "Dance", "Culture", "World news", "Dance music", "Europe"], "title": "Genevieve Maitland Hudson: A new French dance could have reinvented cool"},{"date": "2008-08-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "It's been so long... The last one should have been the two weeks in Sri Lanka over Christmas and New Year 2004/5, but it was hard to kick back and really chill in a country that had been devastated by a natural disaster on the very day we had arrived. And yes - that comment is knowingly narcissistic: if there have been two weeks in my life other than those 14 post-tsunami days when I have thought less about myself and more about the bigger picture then I can't recall them. So, aside from a few snatched days here and there, in Wales and Suffolk and Spain, and that final pre-birth blow-out in a Four Seasons in Bali when I was five months pregnant with my firstborn, all of which involved note-taking for professional purposes - though admittedly this was no great hardship - the last time I'd been on a proper no-strings, you-pays-yer-money sort of holiday was in Kerala at the tail-end of 2001, when I was a mere 12 weeks pregnant. My eldest turned six last Monday, so it's fair to say I've probably needed one for a while.For ages I couldn't really work out how I was going to have any sort of holiday with my offspring that may conceivably involve relaxation. Hurling a credit card at the problem by booking an all-inclusive with hot-and-cold running kids' clubs and en-suite baby nannies to keep the small people entertained while I sat on a sun-lounger hiding behind Christopher Ciccone's stitch-up of his big sister (riveting, but very wrong) didn't really appeal. Meanwhile, the prospect of CenterParcs - perhaps the most smugly preening nuclear family-orientated holiday experience ever - was terrifying. I envisaged myself dining alone with small children in mid-sugar rush while parents covered the eyes of their 2.4s, whispering.Don't let anybody attempt to persuade you there is no stigma attached to single-parenthood any more, much less among the middle classes. Couples with kids don't really want you near them in case it's a form of measles, while singles and the child-free observe you with bemused detachment and think 'What fresh hell...?'Nonetheless, given that there are so many of us I'm amazed how limited the holiday options are for single parents. I'd be far too embarrassed ever to ask my coupled-up friends with kids if I could make a gooseberry fool of myself, so what - aside from a rented cottage in Cornwall with nights spent weeping into the gin - is the alternative? Well, a couple of weeks ago circumstances happily conspired to let me find out, without resorting to Mother's Ruin. A few months ago I had a call from Shirley, who, in the absence of my own (alive, but a long way away), has been a surrogate mother to me since 1980, when I met her daughter, Claudia, on our first day at sixth-form college. Claudia and I became besties and I adopted her family, who, compared with my own, seemed to me to be the very model of warmth, kindness, generosity and functionality. After the intensity of our teenage years, Claudia and I have lived very different lives but retain a sibling fondness. She now lives in Australia and has two children, almost exactly the same ages as mine.'Claudia's coming this summer and bringing the children,' said Shirley, from her home in south-west France. 'You must come. And of course Mark [Claudia's brother] and Gail are here with Oscar, so there would be three boys all the same age, and then the little ones...'. I didn't need any more of the soft-sell.'Do you know anywhere I could stay?''Oh, you must stay at Alex's house...'.Blessed indeed is the exceptionally tired single mother-of-two with old friends who own holiday homes in attractive bits of France. Weeks later, sitting on my lovely borrowed hill overlooking the valleys where the rivers Lot and Garonne converge, nursing a glass of ros\u00e9 while watching a posse of newly bonded small children colliding on the trampoline, I thought, 'You lucky cow.' It took another 10 days to begin to relax, of course (I blame the trampoline), but then I'm out of practice. 'You will come back, won't you?' said Shirley, but I think she knew the answer. The children would never forgive me if we didn't.kathryn.flett@observer.co.uk", "tags": ["Family", "Life and style"], "title": "Kathryn Flett enjoys her single parent break in France"},{"date": "2008-07-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Readers of the Times could be forgiven for feeling a little confused after reading that \"the monkeys have not merely surrendered but are prostrating themselves at the Golden Arch\" of McDonald's. The monkeys? The French. The evidence of their national surrender to burgers: the latest profit figures showing that France is leading the field for McDonald's in Europe with revenues increased by 11% to \u20ac3 billion (\u00a32.3 billion) in 2007. In October 2004, however, the Times ran a story headed: \"How France keeps children out of McDonald's\". Since then though, the number of French people buying McDonald's grub every day has only slightly increased to around 1.2 million. So how, in just three years, did the French go from managing to keep their children out of McDo to the country's total surrender to le Big Mac? In fact, French kids are not kept out of le McDo, and surrender never took place.However strange and counter-intuitive it may sound, McDonald's has always been successful in France, ever since it first set foot in Strasbourg in 1979 (and in Paris, five years later). It could be the great anthropologist Claude L\u00e9vi-Strauss in them, but a majority of French people are extremely curious about food. So when burgers entered their lives in the late 1970s, they embraced them with the passion of new converts. As much as they later adopted sushi and sashimi: Paris was 10 years ahead of London in pioneering affordable Japanese eateries to its hordes of students and adventurous gourmets in the late 1980s.French school canteens, with a menu du jour displayed every day in playgrounds, also educate young palates so that children don't become slaves to fast food in later years. Most teenagers in France go to McDonald's, but it doesn't prevent them from enjoying their grandmother's soupe de cresson their uncle's souffl\u00e9 au fromage, and more importantly, they know the difference between junk food and gastronomy.Personally, if I have to eat fast, I find nothing better than a good jambon-beurre in a Parisian cafe, eaten standing up at the counter. Three euros and 10 minutes later, you still feel light. If I want to eat a burger, I wait until I can sit on worn-out red leather high stool in an old diner in the US. I could also save for a month to go to L'Atelier, the restaurant of chef Jo\u00ebl Robuchon who, as the International Herald Tribune recently reported, serves burgers topped with foie gras.  So who wins when American burgers find their way to the best tables of the best restaurants? Imagination wins. But of course, to explain McDonald's parfum de success you may prefer to dig into the legendary contrarian nature of French behaviour ...", "tags": ["France", "McDonald's", "Food & drink", "Society", "World news", "Young people", "Europe"], "title": "Agnes Poirier: France loves McDonald's. So what?"},{"date": "2008-09-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "A French micro wind-turbine developer, that has managed to rabidly grow to a considerable size in a relatively short time period. The company has further significant expansion plans for the near future and is looking at potential partnerships for international expansion. \u00b7 Based in Fay aux Loges, France\u00b7 116 employees\u00b7 Founded in 2003\u00b7 Product is shipping\u00b7 www.france-eoliennes.comSee the whole list, plus features and comment, at2008 Guardian/Library House CleanTech 100How the companies were selectedData supplied by Library House", "tags": ["Cleantech 100 wind power", "Environment", "Technology", "Energy"], "title": "CleanTech 100: Wind power: France Eoli\u00e8nnes"},{"date": "2008-09-16T10:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We English tend to think that the French don't do cool. Back in the day, French music was filed under \"World\" and consisted of the dirge-like ballads of Edith Piaf, Charles Aznavour and Jacques Brel (who was Belgian anyway). The advent of the 1990s and Daft Punk went some way towards changing that. French music slipped its way out of \"World\" and into those categories previously the exclusive preserve of Anglophone artists. The French even turned to hip-hop, and were more adventurous and less slavishly tied to the US original than on this side of the Channel as the soundtrack to La Haine back in 1995 (our first real introduction to French rap) demonstrated. Then came parkour. And parkour was cool. Parkour was impressive, as any search for David Belle on dailymotion or YouTube will demonstrate. It was urban. It came from the rough streets of those burning banlieues we're always hearing about. It was physically demanding too and that seemed to make it even cooler. Now it's called \"free-running\" and the UK government is investing in it, setting up a national governing body and providing qualifications in parkour training. No doubt this is very good for the safety of the nation's youth, but it makes the whole thing much less cool. There's nothing like the government getting its hands on a craze and stamping it with safety guidance for taking the fun out of it. Of course this kind of appropriation of cultural phenomena is nothing new. Governments do it, as in the case of parkour, but business does it better. Skateboarding, to take one example, has made quite a transition from the empty swimming pools of Venice Beach to the worldwide competitions, video games and multimillion pound empires of the present day and we might well wonder what it has lost and gained along the way. So what of the next French craze ripe for appropriation? Well, there is Tecktonik, as revealed to the readers of the Guardian back in March. Tecktonik has all the markers of a good youth craze. Groups of impassioned kids get together in small teams and perform it in public spaces. You can also watch them doing it on YouTube and dailymotion and marvel at their skills. It has a look (fluorescent clothes, sculpted hair, tight, tight trousers); it has idols,  Mondotek and Yelle being the most well-known. It has an ethos too. Rather a nice ethos. It's all clean living in the world of Tecktonik and the videos on the internet feature serious teenagers discussing the virtues of that cleanliness and then segueing neatly into the complex arm movements that are the markers of their dance. It's all rather a long way, if we are to believe the front pages of our national press, from the binge drinking performed by our teenagers in public places.Tecktonik also has a business empire up and running. The creators of the first major Tecktonik club night at the Metropolis in Rungis, Cyril Blanc and Alexandre Barouzdin, have trademarked the name. And they've got the advertising industry all excited. Tecktonik is promoted by word of mouth; it's a fine example of viral branding. And it works. There are CD compilations and a clothing line and a Nintendo game is in the pipeline (release due in November). So this particular craze comes ready packaged and with a message ripe for government approval. But is it cool? Cool has always implied a kind of authenticity apart from the machinations of corporate branding. Can the Tecktonik brand be embraced by UK kids or will this particular movement just bypass the cool phase altogether and instead be championed by the government as a groovy treatment for childhood obesity? Interestingly the business connection does not trouble the French kids, who still meet and still dance despite the labels, the albums and the high volume of T-shirt sales. So perhaps the French have reinvented cool altogether. It's older, it's wiser and it might just have a business plan.", "tags": ["Music", "France", "Dance", "Culture", "World news", "Dance music", "Europe"], "title": "Genevieve Maitland Hudson: A new French dance could have reinvented cool"},{"date": "2008-08-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "It's been so long... The last one should have been the two weeks in Sri Lanka over Christmas and New Year 2004/5, but it was hard to kick back and really chill in a country that had been devastated by a natural disaster on the very day we had arrived. And yes - that comment is knowingly narcissistic: if there have been two weeks in my life other than those 14 post-tsunami days when I have thought less about myself and more about the bigger picture then I can't recall them. So, aside from a few snatched days here and there, in Wales and Suffolk and Spain, and that final pre-birth blow-out in a Four Seasons in Bali when I was five months pregnant with my firstborn, all of which involved note-taking for professional purposes - though admittedly this was no great hardship - the last time I'd been on a proper no-strings, you-pays-yer-money sort of holiday was in Kerala at the tail-end of 2001, when I was a mere 12 weeks pregnant. My eldest turned six last Monday, so it's fair to say I've probably needed one for a while.For ages I couldn't really work out how I was going to have any sort of holiday with my offspring that may conceivably involve relaxation. Hurling a credit card at the problem by booking an all-inclusive with hot-and-cold running kids' clubs and en-suite baby nannies to keep the small people entertained while I sat on a sun-lounger hiding behind Christopher Ciccone's stitch-up of his big sister (riveting, but very wrong) didn't really appeal. Meanwhile, the prospect of CenterParcs - perhaps the most smugly preening nuclear family-orientated holiday experience ever - was terrifying. I envisaged myself dining alone with small children in mid-sugar rush while parents covered the eyes of their 2.4s, whispering.Don't let anybody attempt to persuade you there is no stigma attached to single-parenthood any more, much less among the middle classes. Couples with kids don't really want you near them in case it's a form of measles, while singles and the child-free observe you with bemused detachment and think 'What fresh hell...?'Nonetheless, given that there are so many of us I'm amazed how limited the holiday options are for single parents. I'd be far too embarrassed ever to ask my coupled-up friends with kids if I could make a gooseberry fool of myself, so what - aside from a rented cottage in Cornwall with nights spent weeping into the gin - is the alternative? Well, a couple of weeks ago circumstances happily conspired to let me find out, without resorting to Mother's Ruin. A few months ago I had a call from Shirley, who, in the absence of my own (alive, but a long way away), has been a surrogate mother to me since 1980, when I met her daughter, Claudia, on our first day at sixth-form college. Claudia and I became besties and I adopted her family, who, compared with my own, seemed to me to be the very model of warmth, kindness, generosity and functionality. After the intensity of our teenage years, Claudia and I have lived very different lives but retain a sibling fondness. She now lives in Australia and has two children, almost exactly the same ages as mine.'Claudia's coming this summer and bringing the children,' said Shirley, from her home in south-west France. 'You must come. And of course Mark [Claudia's brother] and Gail are here with Oscar, so there would be three boys all the same age, and then the little ones...'. I didn't need any more of the soft-sell.'Do you know anywhere I could stay?''Oh, you must stay at Alex's house...'.Blessed indeed is the exceptionally tired single mother-of-two with old friends who own holiday homes in attractive bits of France. Weeks later, sitting on my lovely borrowed hill overlooking the valleys where the rivers Lot and Garonne converge, nursing a glass of ros\u00e9 while watching a posse of newly bonded small children colliding on the trampoline, I thought, 'You lucky cow.' It took another 10 days to begin to relax, of course (I blame the trampoline), but then I'm out of practice. 'You will come back, won't you?' said Shirley, but I think she knew the answer. The children would never forgive me if we didn't.kathryn.flett@observer.co.uk", "tags": ["Family", "Life and style"], "title": "Kathryn Flett enjoys her single parent break in France"},{"date": "2008-07-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Readers of the Times could be forgiven for feeling a little confused after reading that \"the monkeys have not merely surrendered but are prostrating themselves at the Golden Arch\" of McDonald's. The monkeys? The French. The evidence of their national surrender to burgers: the latest profit figures showing that France is leading the field for McDonald's in Europe with revenues increased by 11% to \u20ac3 billion (\u00a32.3 billion) in 2007. In October 2004, however, the Times ran a story headed: \"How France keeps children out of McDonald's\". Since then though, the number of French people buying McDonald's grub every day has only slightly increased to around 1.2 million. So how, in just three years, did the French go from managing to keep their children out of McDo to the country's total surrender to le Big Mac? In fact, French kids are not kept out of le McDo, and surrender never took place.However strange and counter-intuitive it may sound, McDonald's has always been successful in France, ever since it first set foot in Strasbourg in 1979 (and in Paris, five years later). It could be the great anthropologist Claude L\u00e9vi-Strauss in them, but a majority of French people are extremely curious about food. So when burgers entered their lives in the late 1970s, they embraced them with the passion of new converts. As much as they later adopted sushi and sashimi: Paris was 10 years ahead of London in pioneering affordable Japanese eateries to its hordes of students and adventurous gourmets in the late 1980s.French school canteens, with a menu du jour displayed every day in playgrounds, also educate young palates so that children don't become slaves to fast food in later years. Most teenagers in France go to McDonald's, but it doesn't prevent them from enjoying their grandmother's soupe de cresson their uncle's souffl\u00e9 au fromage, and more importantly, they know the difference between junk food and gastronomy.Personally, if I have to eat fast, I find nothing better than a good jambon-beurre in a Parisian cafe, eaten standing up at the counter. Three euros and 10 minutes later, you still feel light. If I want to eat a burger, I wait until I can sit on worn-out red leather high stool in an old diner in the US. I could also save for a month to go to L'Atelier, the restaurant of chef Jo\u00ebl Robuchon who, as the International Herald Tribune recently reported, serves burgers topped with foie gras.  So who wins when American burgers find their way to the best tables of the best restaurants? Imagination wins. But of course, to explain McDonald's parfum de success you may prefer to dig into the legendary contrarian nature of French behaviour ...", "tags": ["France", "McDonald's", "Food & drink", "Society", "World news", "Young people", "Europe"], "title": "Agnes Poirier: France loves McDonald's. So what?"},{"date": "2008-07-17T07:51:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "A raid on the Paris offices of Auto Plus magazine has prompted a row over press freedom in France. Prosecutors seized computers and documents after a complaint by Renault that the magazine had published unauthorised pictures of one of the car maker's new models. Editor Laurent Chiapello said the raid allowed officials to \"gain access to all our sources and that poses a real problem to our way of working independently.\" Two of the country's biggest journalists' unions have protested at the action. See also Gawker's comment. (Via Reuters)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "France", "Media", "World news", "Press freedom", "Europe"], "title": "Press freedom threat in France"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "In April, my boyfriend and I made our fourth trip of the winter back to our old haunt Morzine, staying with friends who were working in a chalet there. Hospitable and lively, Morzine is the resort of choice for many a British seasonnaire. But come the end of April, the tourists have left town, most of the chalets, apartments and hotels have closed their doors, and the majority of seasonnaires are gone, just goggle marks, a few neat tricks and a dose of the clap to their names.Peace descends. Yet the lifts are still turning and the pistes are still groomed. For those who have stuck around, there is more to be had. The last week of the season. At the very end of April this year we basked deliriously in two days of fresh powder. Our posse felt like we were the only ones on the mountain.For me, the last week of the season is the week of the season. And the party of the week of the season takes place at Chez Flo in nearby Avoriaz, when the usually civil restaurant is gripped with end-of-season madness of the very best kind. This is why we really come. We kick off at noon, faces already flushed from a morning's corduroy-riding grow ruddier with exuberant amounts of ros\u00e9. The decking is packed with tables, everyone initiated in what lies ahead. A giant paella cooks outside, yellow rice and orange prawns bright against the snow. Waiters gallop between long tables, napkins flutter in the breeze, the sun beats down on beanied-heads and welds goggles to faces; everyone gets an unavoidable red-neck tan. The band sets up on the snow. Chords strike. The sky is very, very blue. The G\u00e9n\u00e9pi appears, the clear spirit that maketh monsters. The music gets louder. Beer is slopping in the snowy mosh pit. Someone thinks it's a smart idea to get a final ride in, on the last lift. The place is crammed with lifties, pisteurs, red-coat instructors. We are all celebrating. The season that was. The seasons that will be. We've had our fill of snow for a little while, we've had more than most, and our faces are joyfully turned to the sun.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Morzine, France, April"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "In April, my boyfriend and I made our fourth trip of the winter back to our old haunt Morzine, staying with friends who were working in a chalet there. Hospitable and lively, Morzine is the resort of choice for many a British seasonnaire. But come the end of April, the tourists have left town, most of the chalets, apartments and hotels have closed their doors, and the majority of seasonnaires are gone, just goggle marks, a few neat tricks and a dose of the clap to their names.Peace descends. Yet the lifts are still turning and the pistes are still groomed. For those who have stuck around, there is more to be had. The last week of the season. At the very end of April this year we basked deliriously in two days of fresh powder. Our posse felt like we were the only ones on the mountain.For me, the last week of the season is the week of the season. And the party of the week of the season takes place at Chez Flo in nearby Avoriaz, when the usually civil restaurant is gripped with end-of-season madness of the very best kind. This is why we really come. We kick off at noon, faces already flushed from a morning's corduroy-riding grow ruddier with exuberant amounts of ros\u00e9. The decking is packed with tables, everyone initiated in what lies ahead. A giant paella cooks outside, yellow rice and orange prawns bright against the snow. Waiters gallop between long tables, napkins flutter in the breeze, the sun beats down on beanied-heads and welds goggles to faces; everyone gets an unavoidable red-neck tan. The band sets up on the snow. Chords strike. The sky is very, very blue. The G\u00e9n\u00e9pi appears, the clear spirit that maketh monsters. The music gets louder. Beer is slopping in the snowy mosh pit. Someone thinks it's a smart idea to get a final ride in, on the last lift. The place is crammed with lifties, pisteurs, red-coat instructors. We are all celebrating. The season that was. The seasons that will be. We've had our fill of snow for a little while, we've had more than most, and our faces are joyfully turned to the sun.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Morzine, France, April"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We were up before 6am, on the road by 6.30am and threading our way through silent lanes as the sun slowly spilt into the French fields and warmed our aching legs. This was day three of a cycling trip from Caen in Normandy all the way through rural France to the Mediterranean.We averaged 50 miles a day, stopping each night at a chambre d'hote or small hotel. With us came one spare set of kit, a few clothes for the evening, wash bags and wet weather gear, all crammed into the smallest possible saddle bags, along with puncture repair kits and emergency supplies of water and chocolate. After the first couple of days, we fell into a pattern. Creep out at dawn, check the maps, pass the sleepy cattle and greet the two or three farmers we might see before 8.30am. Stop for breakfast at another inviting patisserie and savour a delicious croissant and caf\u00e9 au lait while watching local life shuffle by. We'd get bread, cheese and fruit for lunch and cycle on for another couple of hours, hoping to find a patch of shade for our picnics. Then, back in the saddle for the final heave to our destination, where we'd pour an ice-cold beer down our throats as we planned our route for the next day. In bed by 10, with our washed cycling shorts gently drying at the window, our dreams were full of that day's vistas. Ch\u00e2teaux, miles of unbroken green with flashes of red poppies, medieval hill-top towns, the lemon-coloured morning sun easing the mist from the fields, some fantastic swoops down into villages, when we'd freewheel at amazing speeds, shouting into the wind. These wonderful dips were too often followed by an exhausting climb out, when five miles an hour seemed an achievement, but the cold water at the top tasted like the best champagne. Four friends took the trip - two super-fit Kiwis and two south-coast Brits. None of us was a \"real\" cyclist, but we each brought a unique skill to the group. Alan, the fittest, would steam ahead, and find the best possible place for our picnic lunches. Angie was the chief organiser, who liked to plan our routes and decide where we stayed. My husband was head map reader and packer of saddle bags, while my ability to speak French meant I was most useful at explaining we needed somewhere to lock up our bikes and that we'd be gone before breakfast. It was an amazingly simple holiday. We cycled from our front door to Portsmouth harbour, across to France on the overnight ferry, then pedalled for 13 days and 712 miles to reach the Med. I consumed more calories than at any other time in my life and still lost 7lbs.When we reached our destination and had to pack up our bikes to fly home, we agreed that - if not for work waiting for us - we would have cycled back again.", "tags": ["Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Cycling across France, May"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "In April, my boyfriend and I made our fourth trip of the winter back to our old haunt Morzine, staying with friends who were working in a chalet there. Hospitable and lively, Morzine is the resort of choice for many a British seasonnaire. But come the end of April, the tourists have left town, most of the chalets, apartments and hotels have closed their doors, and the majority of seasonnaires are gone, just goggle marks, a few neat tricks and a dose of the clap to their names.Peace descends. Yet the lifts are still turning and the pistes are still groomed. For those who have stuck around, there is more to be had. The last week of the season. At the very end of April this year we basked deliriously in two days of fresh powder. Our posse felt like we were the only ones on the mountain.For me, the last week of the season is the week of the season. And the party of the week of the season takes place at Chez Flo in nearby Avoriaz, when the usually civil restaurant is gripped with end-of-season madness of the very best kind. This is why we really come. We kick off at noon, faces already flushed from a morning's corduroy-riding grow ruddier with exuberant amounts of ros\u00e9. The decking is packed with tables, everyone initiated in what lies ahead. A giant paella cooks outside, yellow rice and orange prawns bright against the snow. Waiters gallop between long tables, napkins flutter in the breeze, the sun beats down on beanied-heads and welds goggles to faces; everyone gets an unavoidable red-neck tan. The band sets up on the snow. Chords strike. The sky is very, very blue. The G\u00e9n\u00e9pi appears, the clear spirit that maketh monsters. The music gets louder. Beer is slopping in the snowy mosh pit. Someone thinks it's a smart idea to get a final ride in, on the last lift. The place is crammed with lifties, pisteurs, red-coat instructors. We are all celebrating. The season that was. The seasons that will be. We've had our fill of snow for a little while, we've had more than most, and our faces are joyfully turned to the sun.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Morzine, France, April"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We were up before 6am, on the road by 6.30am and threading our way through silent lanes as the sun slowly spilt into the French fields and warmed our aching legs. This was day three of a cycling trip from Caen in Normandy all the way through rural France to the Mediterranean.We averaged 50 miles a day, stopping each night at a chambre d'hote or small hotel. With us came one spare set of kit, a few clothes for the evening, wash bags and wet weather gear, all crammed into the smallest possible saddle bags, along with puncture repair kits and emergency supplies of water and chocolate. After the first couple of days, we fell into a pattern. Creep out at dawn, check the maps, pass the sleepy cattle and greet the two or three farmers we might see before 8.30am. Stop for breakfast at another inviting patisserie and savour a delicious croissant and caf\u00e9 au lait while watching local life shuffle by. We'd get bread, cheese and fruit for lunch and cycle on for another couple of hours, hoping to find a patch of shade for our picnics. Then, back in the saddle for the final heave to our destination, where we'd pour an ice-cold beer down our throats as we planned our route for the next day. In bed by 10, with our washed cycling shorts gently drying at the window, our dreams were full of that day's vistas. Ch\u00e2teaux, miles of unbroken green with flashes of red poppies, medieval hill-top towns, the lemon-coloured morning sun easing the mist from the fields, some fantastic swoops down into villages, when we'd freewheel at amazing speeds, shouting into the wind. These wonderful dips were too often followed by an exhausting climb out, when five miles an hour seemed an achievement, but the cold water at the top tasted like the best champagne. Four friends took the trip - two super-fit Kiwis and two south-coast Brits. None of us was a \"real\" cyclist, but we each brought a unique skill to the group. Alan, the fittest, would steam ahead, and find the best possible place for our picnic lunches. Angie was the chief organiser, who liked to plan our routes and decide where we stayed. My husband was head map reader and packer of saddle bags, while my ability to speak French meant I was most useful at explaining we needed somewhere to lock up our bikes and that we'd be gone before breakfast. It was an amazingly simple holiday. We cycled from our front door to Portsmouth harbour, across to France on the overnight ferry, then pedalled for 13 days and 712 miles to reach the Med. I consumed more calories than at any other time in my life and still lost 7lbs.When we reached our destination and had to pack up our bikes to fly home, we agreed that - if not for work waiting for us - we would have cycled back again.", "tags": ["Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Cycling across France, May"},{"date": "2008-10-16T18:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "There is nothing uniquely African about corruption \u2013 or war, or arms trafficking, or the power of petroleum to encourage excessively selfish behaviour among men. If any good could come of Angolagate, it might be this: a lesson for the many millions of westerners who still manage to delude themselves with the idea that Africans are somehow nastier and greedier (or, in the case of mainstream media and pop-star portrayals, simpler and sweeter) than the rest of us.Among those accused in the arms-to-Angola scandal is a long list of French businessmen and senior government officials, many of whom served during the presidency (1981 to 1995) of the late Fran\u00e7ois Mitterand. His own son, 61-year-old Jean-Christophe, is accused of \"complicity in illegal trade and embezzlement\" and of having received over $2.6 million in bribes. Yet I hear no moans and groans in Britain about the corrupt bloody French. Despite its name, Angolagate is more a reflection of French greed and French politics than Angolan corruption, even if several Angolans probably did also walk away with large wads of wonga.In 1993, just months after a first and very flawed election had collapsed the year before, the Angolan war escalated considerably. The central highland cities of Kuito and Huambo were among the worst affected, split down the middle between forces loyal to the ruling Movimento Popular da Liberta\u00e7\u00e3o de Angola (MPLA) and the then rebel army, Uni\u00e3o Nacional para a Independ\u00eancia Total de Angola (Unita).Angolan President Jos\u00e9 Eduardo Dos Santos was desperate, and feared he would finally be defeated by his oldest and most brilliant enemy, Unita leader Jonas Malheiro Savimbi. So the story goes, he called up an old socialist comrade, Jean-Bernard Curial, who also happened to be the Africa advisor to Mitterand's Parti Socialiste (PS). The networks swung into action, and soon huge arms deals were under way involving the Angolan, Slovakian and Russian governments. All almost well and good: the only sticking point was the conservative French ministry of defence, which favoured Savimbi's rightwing Unita over the still seemingly socialist MPLA.As Global Witness's Alex Yearsley puts it:There was a double French policy concerning Angola, a hangover from the Cold War if you like. And those battles \u2013 between right and left, between who gets into the French presidency and who doesn't - have continued. This is how the Angolagate trial should be understood. The French political establishment are having their dirty laundry put on show in the death throes of a trial that was supposed to be about corruption, arms dealing and money laundering.With this in mind, it will be interesting to see how far President Nicolas Sarkozy will go to protect his new-found friendship with Dos Santos. Observers in Paris expect the French investigating judge, Philippe Courroye, to subpoena senior Angolans - including the president - who have been named in the indictment, and accused of financially benefiting from the arms deals. But Sarkozy will not want to upset the Angolan leader, who heads what is one of Africa's largest oil-producing nations pumping out close to 2 million barrels a day.The trial is expected to last five months, which would push proceedings into March next year \u2013 the same year that marks Dos Santos' 30th in power, and the same year in which he has promised to hold presidential elections (the first in 17 years). The last thing he needs is details of backhanders and arms deals splattered across the newspapers. If he is embarrassed publicly, he will ensure that French interests suffer in Angola's oil, energy and construction sectors. Which is why we should be watching Sarkozy closely.Incidentally, earlier this month, Dr Edward George, an economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit, reported that the French presidency is alleged to have intervened in another case involving another African leader, this one being Cote d'Ivoire's President Laurent Gbagbo. Gbagbo's wife, Simone Gbagbo, was linked to the 2004 disappearance of French-Canadian journalist, Guy-Andr\u00e9 Kieffer.Earlier this year, she and an Ivorian minister received a summons from a French court seeking to hear evidence from them. The court had also communicated with an anonymous witness who wanted to give evidence about Kieffer's disappearance. This all sounds like progress, except that the witness lost his nerve and refused to testify, citing pressure and intimidation from the office of the French presidency.All of this amounts to gloomy news for those Angolans who would like to see some measure of justice and equality introduced onto the Angolan political scene. They have just seen the MPLA take a landslide victory of almost 82% in legislative elections that were far from being truly free or fair. The party, as Angolan writer Sousa Jamba told me, is \"above any criticism, and it will be a long time before the Angolan establishment will be ready for any scrutiny.\"", "tags": ["Angola", "France", "Law", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Lara Pawson: Angolagate shames France"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "In April, my boyfriend and I made our fourth trip of the winter back to our old haunt Morzine, staying with friends who were working in a chalet there. Hospitable and lively, Morzine is the resort of choice for many a British seasonnaire. But come the end of April, the tourists have left town, most of the chalets, apartments and hotels have closed their doors, and the majority of seasonnaires are gone, just goggle marks, a few neat tricks and a dose of the clap to their names.Peace descends. Yet the lifts are still turning and the pistes are still groomed. For those who have stuck around, there is more to be had. The last week of the season. At the very end of April this year we basked deliriously in two days of fresh powder. Our posse felt like we were the only ones on the mountain.For me, the last week of the season is the week of the season. And the party of the week of the season takes place at Chez Flo in nearby Avoriaz, when the usually civil restaurant is gripped with end-of-season madness of the very best kind. This is why we really come. We kick off at noon, faces already flushed from a morning's corduroy-riding grow ruddier with exuberant amounts of ros\u00e9. The decking is packed with tables, everyone initiated in what lies ahead. A giant paella cooks outside, yellow rice and orange prawns bright against the snow. Waiters gallop between long tables, napkins flutter in the breeze, the sun beats down on beanied-heads and welds goggles to faces; everyone gets an unavoidable red-neck tan. The band sets up on the snow. Chords strike. The sky is very, very blue. The G\u00e9n\u00e9pi appears, the clear spirit that maketh monsters. The music gets louder. Beer is slopping in the snowy mosh pit. Someone thinks it's a smart idea to get a final ride in, on the last lift. The place is crammed with lifties, pisteurs, red-coat instructors. We are all celebrating. The season that was. The seasons that will be. We've had our fill of snow for a little while, we've had more than most, and our faces are joyfully turned to the sun.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Morzine, France, April"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We were up before 6am, on the road by 6.30am and threading our way through silent lanes as the sun slowly spilt into the French fields and warmed our aching legs. This was day three of a cycling trip from Caen in Normandy all the way through rural France to the Mediterranean.We averaged 50 miles a day, stopping each night at a chambre d'hote or small hotel. With us came one spare set of kit, a few clothes for the evening, wash bags and wet weather gear, all crammed into the smallest possible saddle bags, along with puncture repair kits and emergency supplies of water and chocolate. After the first couple of days, we fell into a pattern. Creep out at dawn, check the maps, pass the sleepy cattle and greet the two or three farmers we might see before 8.30am. Stop for breakfast at another inviting patisserie and savour a delicious croissant and caf\u00e9 au lait while watching local life shuffle by. We'd get bread, cheese and fruit for lunch and cycle on for another couple of hours, hoping to find a patch of shade for our picnics. Then, back in the saddle for the final heave to our destination, where we'd pour an ice-cold beer down our throats as we planned our route for the next day. In bed by 10, with our washed cycling shorts gently drying at the window, our dreams were full of that day's vistas. Ch\u00e2teaux, miles of unbroken green with flashes of red poppies, medieval hill-top towns, the lemon-coloured morning sun easing the mist from the fields, some fantastic swoops down into villages, when we'd freewheel at amazing speeds, shouting into the wind. These wonderful dips were too often followed by an exhausting climb out, when five miles an hour seemed an achievement, but the cold water at the top tasted like the best champagne. Four friends took the trip - two super-fit Kiwis and two south-coast Brits. None of us was a \"real\" cyclist, but we each brought a unique skill to the group. Alan, the fittest, would steam ahead, and find the best possible place for our picnic lunches. Angie was the chief organiser, who liked to plan our routes and decide where we stayed. My husband was head map reader and packer of saddle bags, while my ability to speak French meant I was most useful at explaining we needed somewhere to lock up our bikes and that we'd be gone before breakfast. It was an amazingly simple holiday. We cycled from our front door to Portsmouth harbour, across to France on the overnight ferry, then pedalled for 13 days and 712 miles to reach the Med. I consumed more calories than at any other time in my life and still lost 7lbs.When we reached our destination and had to pack up our bikes to fly home, we agreed that - if not for work waiting for us - we would have cycled back again.", "tags": ["Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Cycling across France, May"},{"date": "2008-10-16T18:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "There is nothing uniquely African about corruption \u2013 or war, or arms trafficking, or the power of petroleum to encourage excessively selfish behaviour among men. If any good could come of Angolagate, it might be this: a lesson for the many millions of westerners who still manage to delude themselves with the idea that Africans are somehow nastier and greedier (or, in the case of mainstream media and pop-star portrayals, simpler and sweeter) than the rest of us.Among those accused in the arms-to-Angola scandal is a long list of French businessmen and senior government officials, many of whom served during the presidency (1981 to 1995) of the late Fran\u00e7ois Mitterand. His own son, 61-year-old Jean-Christophe, is accused of \"complicity in illegal trade and embezzlement\" and of having received over $2.6 million in bribes. Yet I hear no moans and groans in Britain about the corrupt bloody French. Despite its name, Angolagate is more a reflection of French greed and French politics than Angolan corruption, even if several Angolans probably did also walk away with large wads of wonga.In 1993, just months after a first and very flawed election had collapsed the year before, the Angolan war escalated considerably. The central highland cities of Kuito and Huambo were among the worst affected, split down the middle between forces loyal to the ruling Movimento Popular da Liberta\u00e7\u00e3o de Angola (MPLA) and the then rebel army, Uni\u00e3o Nacional para a Independ\u00eancia Total de Angola (Unita).Angolan President Jos\u00e9 Eduardo Dos Santos was desperate, and feared he would finally be defeated by his oldest and most brilliant enemy, Unita leader Jonas Malheiro Savimbi. So the story goes, he called up an old socialist comrade, Jean-Bernard Curial, who also happened to be the Africa advisor to Mitterand's Parti Socialiste (PS). The networks swung into action, and soon huge arms deals were under way involving the Angolan, Slovakian and Russian governments. All almost well and good: the only sticking point was the conservative French ministry of defence, which favoured Savimbi's rightwing Unita over the still seemingly socialist MPLA.As Global Witness's Alex Yearsley puts it:There was a double French policy concerning Angola, a hangover from the Cold War if you like. And those battles \u2013 between right and left, between who gets into the French presidency and who doesn't - have continued. This is how the Angolagate trial should be understood. The French political establishment are having their dirty laundry put on show in the death throes of a trial that was supposed to be about corruption, arms dealing and money laundering.With this in mind, it will be interesting to see how far President Nicolas Sarkozy will go to protect his new-found friendship with Dos Santos. Observers in Paris expect the French investigating judge, Philippe Courroye, to subpoena senior Angolans - including the president - who have been named in the indictment, and accused of financially benefiting from the arms deals. But Sarkozy will not want to upset the Angolan leader, who heads what is one of Africa's largest oil-producing nations pumping out close to 2 million barrels a day.The trial is expected to last five months, which would push proceedings into March next year \u2013 the same year that marks Dos Santos' 30th in power, and the same year in which he has promised to hold presidential elections (the first in 17 years). The last thing he needs is details of backhanders and arms deals splattered across the newspapers. If he is embarrassed publicly, he will ensure that French interests suffer in Angola's oil, energy and construction sectors. Which is why we should be watching Sarkozy closely.Incidentally, earlier this month, Dr Edward George, an economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit, reported that the French presidency is alleged to have intervened in another case involving another African leader, this one being Cote d'Ivoire's President Laurent Gbagbo. Gbagbo's wife, Simone Gbagbo, was linked to the 2004 disappearance of French-Canadian journalist, Guy-Andr\u00e9 Kieffer.Earlier this year, she and an Ivorian minister received a summons from a French court seeking to hear evidence from them. The court had also communicated with an anonymous witness who wanted to give evidence about Kieffer's disappearance. This all sounds like progress, except that the witness lost his nerve and refused to testify, citing pressure and intimidation from the office of the French presidency.All of this amounts to gloomy news for those Angolans who would like to see some measure of justice and equality introduced onto the Angolan political scene. They have just seen the MPLA take a landslide victory of almost 82% in legislative elections that were far from being truly free or fair. The party, as Angolan writer Sousa Jamba told me, is \"above any criticism, and it will be a long time before the Angolan establishment will be ready for any scrutiny.\"", "tags": ["Angola", "France", "Law", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Lara Pawson: Angolagate shames France"},{"date": "2008-11-04T13:15:21Z", "country": "france", "content": "Another footnote of the imperial spread of BBC Worldwide today as some major BBC dramas are added to iTunes France. Pride and Prejudice, Torchwood, Extras and The Lost World are now all available en France either as a complete series or in individual episodes. Most shows are available in French and in English and start at \u20ac1.99 for one episode.This makes the BBC - or rather BBC Worldwide - the first UK broadcaster to make programmes available on the iTunes Store in France, just as it was in the UK.Photograph: _sarchi/Flickr/Some rights reserved", "tags": ["BBC", "Digital media", "Media", "Technology", "iTunes", "Apple"], "title": "BBC shows join iTunes France"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "In April, my boyfriend and I made our fourth trip of the winter back to our old haunt Morzine, staying with friends who were working in a chalet there. Hospitable and lively, Morzine is the resort of choice for many a British seasonnaire. But come the end of April, the tourists have left town, most of the chalets, apartments and hotels have closed their doors, and the majority of seasonnaires are gone, just goggle marks, a few neat tricks and a dose of the clap to their names.Peace descends. Yet the lifts are still turning and the pistes are still groomed. For those who have stuck around, there is more to be had. The last week of the season. At the very end of April this year we basked deliriously in two days of fresh powder. Our posse felt like we were the only ones on the mountain.For me, the last week of the season is the week of the season. And the party of the week of the season takes place at Chez Flo in nearby Avoriaz, when the usually civil restaurant is gripped with end-of-season madness of the very best kind. This is why we really come. We kick off at noon, faces already flushed from a morning's corduroy-riding grow ruddier with exuberant amounts of ros\u00e9. The decking is packed with tables, everyone initiated in what lies ahead. A giant paella cooks outside, yellow rice and orange prawns bright against the snow. Waiters gallop between long tables, napkins flutter in the breeze, the sun beats down on beanied-heads and welds goggles to faces; everyone gets an unavoidable red-neck tan. The band sets up on the snow. Chords strike. The sky is very, very blue. The G\u00e9n\u00e9pi appears, the clear spirit that maketh monsters. The music gets louder. Beer is slopping in the snowy mosh pit. Someone thinks it's a smart idea to get a final ride in, on the last lift. The place is crammed with lifties, pisteurs, red-coat instructors. We are all celebrating. The season that was. The seasons that will be. We've had our fill of snow for a little while, we've had more than most, and our faces are joyfully turned to the sun.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Morzine, France, April"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We were up before 6am, on the road by 6.30am and threading our way through silent lanes as the sun slowly spilt into the French fields and warmed our aching legs. This was day three of a cycling trip from Caen in Normandy all the way through rural France to the Mediterranean.We averaged 50 miles a day, stopping each night at a chambre d'hote or small hotel. With us came one spare set of kit, a few clothes for the evening, wash bags and wet weather gear, all crammed into the smallest possible saddle bags, along with puncture repair kits and emergency supplies of water and chocolate. After the first couple of days, we fell into a pattern. Creep out at dawn, check the maps, pass the sleepy cattle and greet the two or three farmers we might see before 8.30am. Stop for breakfast at another inviting patisserie and savour a delicious croissant and caf\u00e9 au lait while watching local life shuffle by. We'd get bread, cheese and fruit for lunch and cycle on for another couple of hours, hoping to find a patch of shade for our picnics. Then, back in the saddle for the final heave to our destination, where we'd pour an ice-cold beer down our throats as we planned our route for the next day. In bed by 10, with our washed cycling shorts gently drying at the window, our dreams were full of that day's vistas. Ch\u00e2teaux, miles of unbroken green with flashes of red poppies, medieval hill-top towns, the lemon-coloured morning sun easing the mist from the fields, some fantastic swoops down into villages, when we'd freewheel at amazing speeds, shouting into the wind. These wonderful dips were too often followed by an exhausting climb out, when five miles an hour seemed an achievement, but the cold water at the top tasted like the best champagne. Four friends took the trip - two super-fit Kiwis and two south-coast Brits. None of us was a \"real\" cyclist, but we each brought a unique skill to the group. Alan, the fittest, would steam ahead, and find the best possible place for our picnic lunches. Angie was the chief organiser, who liked to plan our routes and decide where we stayed. My husband was head map reader and packer of saddle bags, while my ability to speak French meant I was most useful at explaining we needed somewhere to lock up our bikes and that we'd be gone before breakfast. It was an amazingly simple holiday. We cycled from our front door to Portsmouth harbour, across to France on the overnight ferry, then pedalled for 13 days and 712 miles to reach the Med. I consumed more calories than at any other time in my life and still lost 7lbs.When we reached our destination and had to pack up our bikes to fly home, we agreed that - if not for work waiting for us - we would have cycled back again.", "tags": ["Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Cycling across France, May"},{"date": "2008-10-16T18:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "There is nothing uniquely African about corruption \u2013 or war, or arms trafficking, or the power of petroleum to encourage excessively selfish behaviour among men. If any good could come of Angolagate, it might be this: a lesson for the many millions of westerners who still manage to delude themselves with the idea that Africans are somehow nastier and greedier (or, in the case of mainstream media and pop-star portrayals, simpler and sweeter) than the rest of us.Among those accused in the arms-to-Angola scandal is a long list of French businessmen and senior government officials, many of whom served during the presidency (1981 to 1995) of the late Fran\u00e7ois Mitterand. His own son, 61-year-old Jean-Christophe, is accused of \"complicity in illegal trade and embezzlement\" and of having received over $2.6 million in bribes. Yet I hear no moans and groans in Britain about the corrupt bloody French. Despite its name, Angolagate is more a reflection of French greed and French politics than Angolan corruption, even if several Angolans probably did also walk away with large wads of wonga.In 1993, just months after a first and very flawed election had collapsed the year before, the Angolan war escalated considerably. The central highland cities of Kuito and Huambo were among the worst affected, split down the middle between forces loyal to the ruling Movimento Popular da Liberta\u00e7\u00e3o de Angola (MPLA) and the then rebel army, Uni\u00e3o Nacional para a Independ\u00eancia Total de Angola (Unita).Angolan President Jos\u00e9 Eduardo Dos Santos was desperate, and feared he would finally be defeated by his oldest and most brilliant enemy, Unita leader Jonas Malheiro Savimbi. So the story goes, he called up an old socialist comrade, Jean-Bernard Curial, who also happened to be the Africa advisor to Mitterand's Parti Socialiste (PS). The networks swung into action, and soon huge arms deals were under way involving the Angolan, Slovakian and Russian governments. All almost well and good: the only sticking point was the conservative French ministry of defence, which favoured Savimbi's rightwing Unita over the still seemingly socialist MPLA.As Global Witness's Alex Yearsley puts it:There was a double French policy concerning Angola, a hangover from the Cold War if you like. And those battles \u2013 between right and left, between who gets into the French presidency and who doesn't - have continued. This is how the Angolagate trial should be understood. The French political establishment are having their dirty laundry put on show in the death throes of a trial that was supposed to be about corruption, arms dealing and money laundering.With this in mind, it will be interesting to see how far President Nicolas Sarkozy will go to protect his new-found friendship with Dos Santos. Observers in Paris expect the French investigating judge, Philippe Courroye, to subpoena senior Angolans - including the president - who have been named in the indictment, and accused of financially benefiting from the arms deals. But Sarkozy will not want to upset the Angolan leader, who heads what is one of Africa's largest oil-producing nations pumping out close to 2 million barrels a day.The trial is expected to last five months, which would push proceedings into March next year \u2013 the same year that marks Dos Santos' 30th in power, and the same year in which he has promised to hold presidential elections (the first in 17 years). The last thing he needs is details of backhanders and arms deals splattered across the newspapers. If he is embarrassed publicly, he will ensure that French interests suffer in Angola's oil, energy and construction sectors. Which is why we should be watching Sarkozy closely.Incidentally, earlier this month, Dr Edward George, an economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit, reported that the French presidency is alleged to have intervened in another case involving another African leader, this one being Cote d'Ivoire's President Laurent Gbagbo. Gbagbo's wife, Simone Gbagbo, was linked to the 2004 disappearance of French-Canadian journalist, Guy-Andr\u00e9 Kieffer.Earlier this year, she and an Ivorian minister received a summons from a French court seeking to hear evidence from them. The court had also communicated with an anonymous witness who wanted to give evidence about Kieffer's disappearance. This all sounds like progress, except that the witness lost his nerve and refused to testify, citing pressure and intimidation from the office of the French presidency.All of this amounts to gloomy news for those Angolans who would like to see some measure of justice and equality introduced onto the Angolan political scene. They have just seen the MPLA take a landslide victory of almost 82% in legislative elections that were far from being truly free or fair. The party, as Angolan writer Sousa Jamba told me, is \"above any criticism, and it will be a long time before the Angolan establishment will be ready for any scrutiny.\"", "tags": ["Angola", "France", "Law", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Lara Pawson: Angolagate shames France"},{"date": "2008-11-04T13:15:21Z", "country": "france", "content": "Another footnote of the imperial spread of BBC Worldwide today as some major BBC dramas are added to iTunes France. Pride and Prejudice, Torchwood, Extras and The Lost World are now all available en France either as a complete series or in individual episodes. Most shows are available in French and in English and start at \u20ac1.99 for one episode.This makes the BBC - or rather BBC Worldwide - the first UK broadcaster to make programmes available on the iTunes Store in France, just as it was in the UK.Photograph: _sarchi/Flickr/Some rights reserved", "tags": ["BBC", "Digital media", "Media", "Technology", "iTunes", "Apple"], "title": "BBC shows join iTunes France"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "france", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "In April, my boyfriend and I made our fourth trip of the winter back to our old haunt Morzine, staying with friends who were working in a chalet there. Hospitable and lively, Morzine is the resort of choice for many a British seasonnaire. But come the end of April, the tourists have left town, most of the chalets, apartments and hotels have closed their doors, and the majority of seasonnaires are gone, just goggle marks, a few neat tricks and a dose of the clap to their names.Peace descends. Yet the lifts are still turning and the pistes are still groomed. For those who have stuck around, there is more to be had. The last week of the season. At the very end of April this year we basked deliriously in two days of fresh powder. Our posse felt like we were the only ones on the mountain.For me, the last week of the season is the week of the season. And the party of the week of the season takes place at Chez Flo in nearby Avoriaz, when the usually civil restaurant is gripped with end-of-season madness of the very best kind. This is why we really come. We kick off at noon, faces already flushed from a morning's corduroy-riding grow ruddier with exuberant amounts of ros\u00e9. The decking is packed with tables, everyone initiated in what lies ahead. A giant paella cooks outside, yellow rice and orange prawns bright against the snow. Waiters gallop between long tables, napkins flutter in the breeze, the sun beats down on beanied-heads and welds goggles to faces; everyone gets an unavoidable red-neck tan. The band sets up on the snow. Chords strike. The sky is very, very blue. The G\u00e9n\u00e9pi appears, the clear spirit that maketh monsters. The music gets louder. Beer is slopping in the snowy mosh pit. Someone thinks it's a smart idea to get a final ride in, on the last lift. The place is crammed with lifties, pisteurs, red-coat instructors. We are all celebrating. The season that was. The seasons that will be. We've had our fill of snow for a little while, we've had more than most, and our faces are joyfully turned to the sun.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Morzine, France, April"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We were up before 6am, on the road by 6.30am and threading our way through silent lanes as the sun slowly spilt into the French fields and warmed our aching legs. This was day three of a cycling trip from Caen in Normandy all the way through rural France to the Mediterranean.We averaged 50 miles a day, stopping each night at a chambre d'hote or small hotel. With us came one spare set of kit, a few clothes for the evening, wash bags and wet weather gear, all crammed into the smallest possible saddle bags, along with puncture repair kits and emergency supplies of water and chocolate. After the first couple of days, we fell into a pattern. Creep out at dawn, check the maps, pass the sleepy cattle and greet the two or three farmers we might see before 8.30am. Stop for breakfast at another inviting patisserie and savour a delicious croissant and caf\u00e9 au lait while watching local life shuffle by. We'd get bread, cheese and fruit for lunch and cycle on for another couple of hours, hoping to find a patch of shade for our picnics. Then, back in the saddle for the final heave to our destination, where we'd pour an ice-cold beer down our throats as we planned our route for the next day. In bed by 10, with our washed cycling shorts gently drying at the window, our dreams were full of that day's vistas. Ch\u00e2teaux, miles of unbroken green with flashes of red poppies, medieval hill-top towns, the lemon-coloured morning sun easing the mist from the fields, some fantastic swoops down into villages, when we'd freewheel at amazing speeds, shouting into the wind. These wonderful dips were too often followed by an exhausting climb out, when five miles an hour seemed an achievement, but the cold water at the top tasted like the best champagne. Four friends took the trip - two super-fit Kiwis and two south-coast Brits. None of us was a \"real\" cyclist, but we each brought a unique skill to the group. Alan, the fittest, would steam ahead, and find the best possible place for our picnic lunches. Angie was the chief organiser, who liked to plan our routes and decide where we stayed. My husband was head map reader and packer of saddle bags, while my ability to speak French meant I was most useful at explaining we needed somewhere to lock up our bikes and that we'd be gone before breakfast. It was an amazingly simple holiday. We cycled from our front door to Portsmouth harbour, across to France on the overnight ferry, then pedalled for 13 days and 712 miles to reach the Med. I consumed more calories than at any other time in my life and still lost 7lbs.When we reached our destination and had to pack up our bikes to fly home, we agreed that - if not for work waiting for us - we would have cycled back again.", "tags": ["Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Cycling across France, May"},{"date": "2008-10-16T18:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "There is nothing uniquely African about corruption \u2013 or war, or arms trafficking, or the power of petroleum to encourage excessively selfish behaviour among men. If any good could come of Angolagate, it might be this: a lesson for the many millions of westerners who still manage to delude themselves with the idea that Africans are somehow nastier and greedier (or, in the case of mainstream media and pop-star portrayals, simpler and sweeter) than the rest of us.Among those accused in the arms-to-Angola scandal is a long list of French businessmen and senior government officials, many of whom served during the presidency (1981 to 1995) of the late Fran\u00e7ois Mitterand. His own son, 61-year-old Jean-Christophe, is accused of \"complicity in illegal trade and embezzlement\" and of having received over $2.6 million in bribes. Yet I hear no moans and groans in Britain about the corrupt bloody French. Despite its name, Angolagate is more a reflection of French greed and French politics than Angolan corruption, even if several Angolans probably did also walk away with large wads of wonga.In 1993, just months after a first and very flawed election had collapsed the year before, the Angolan war escalated considerably. The central highland cities of Kuito and Huambo were among the worst affected, split down the middle between forces loyal to the ruling Movimento Popular da Liberta\u00e7\u00e3o de Angola (MPLA) and the then rebel army, Uni\u00e3o Nacional para a Independ\u00eancia Total de Angola (Unita).Angolan President Jos\u00e9 Eduardo Dos Santos was desperate, and feared he would finally be defeated by his oldest and most brilliant enemy, Unita leader Jonas Malheiro Savimbi. So the story goes, he called up an old socialist comrade, Jean-Bernard Curial, who also happened to be the Africa advisor to Mitterand's Parti Socialiste (PS). The networks swung into action, and soon huge arms deals were under way involving the Angolan, Slovakian and Russian governments. All almost well and good: the only sticking point was the conservative French ministry of defence, which favoured Savimbi's rightwing Unita over the still seemingly socialist MPLA.As Global Witness's Alex Yearsley puts it:There was a double French policy concerning Angola, a hangover from the Cold War if you like. And those battles \u2013 between right and left, between who gets into the French presidency and who doesn't - have continued. This is how the Angolagate trial should be understood. The French political establishment are having their dirty laundry put on show in the death throes of a trial that was supposed to be about corruption, arms dealing and money laundering.With this in mind, it will be interesting to see how far President Nicolas Sarkozy will go to protect his new-found friendship with Dos Santos. Observers in Paris expect the French investigating judge, Philippe Courroye, to subpoena senior Angolans - including the president - who have been named in the indictment, and accused of financially benefiting from the arms deals. But Sarkozy will not want to upset the Angolan leader, who heads what is one of Africa's largest oil-producing nations pumping out close to 2 million barrels a day.The trial is expected to last five months, which would push proceedings into March next year \u2013 the same year that marks Dos Santos' 30th in power, and the same year in which he has promised to hold presidential elections (the first in 17 years). The last thing he needs is details of backhanders and arms deals splattered across the newspapers. If he is embarrassed publicly, he will ensure that French interests suffer in Angola's oil, energy and construction sectors. Which is why we should be watching Sarkozy closely.Incidentally, earlier this month, Dr Edward George, an economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit, reported that the French presidency is alleged to have intervened in another case involving another African leader, this one being Cote d'Ivoire's President Laurent Gbagbo. Gbagbo's wife, Simone Gbagbo, was linked to the 2004 disappearance of French-Canadian journalist, Guy-Andr\u00e9 Kieffer.Earlier this year, she and an Ivorian minister received a summons from a French court seeking to hear evidence from them. The court had also communicated with an anonymous witness who wanted to give evidence about Kieffer's disappearance. This all sounds like progress, except that the witness lost his nerve and refused to testify, citing pressure and intimidation from the office of the French presidency.All of this amounts to gloomy news for those Angolans who would like to see some measure of justice and equality introduced onto the Angolan political scene. They have just seen the MPLA take a landslide victory of almost 82% in legislative elections that were far from being truly free or fair. The party, as Angolan writer Sousa Jamba told me, is \"above any criticism, and it will be a long time before the Angolan establishment will be ready for any scrutiny.\"", "tags": ["Angola", "France", "Law", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Lara Pawson: Angolagate shames France"},{"date": "2008-11-04T13:15:21Z", "country": "france", "content": "Another footnote of the imperial spread of BBC Worldwide today as some major BBC dramas are added to iTunes France. Pride and Prejudice, Torchwood, Extras and The Lost World are now all available en France either as a complete series or in individual episodes. Most shows are available in French and in English and start at \u20ac1.99 for one episode.This makes the BBC - or rather BBC Worldwide - the first UK broadcaster to make programmes available on the iTunes Store in France, just as it was in the UK.Photograph: _sarchi/Flickr/Some rights reserved", "tags": ["BBC", "Digital media", "Media", "Technology", "iTunes", "Apple"], "title": "BBC shows join iTunes France"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "france", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-30T00:04:51Z", "country": "france", "content": "A self-drive champagne-tasting trip? It sounded like a literal crash course. I would need to get airbags fitted to the outside of the car, to be sure I would bounce off oncoming vehicles and vineyards. Either that or hire someone from \u00adTeetotaldrivers.com.Before investing, though, I enquired further, and heard the good news: that we would be walking between the champagne houses, so there was no danger of crashing, getting breathalysed or \u2013 worse \u2013 having to limit my tasting to one sip per glass. The only driving I would do was to the village of A\u00ff (pronounced 'ah-yee'), near Epernay, which is home to some 30 champagne houses. These include some of the big boys, such as Deutz and Bollinger, but this tour is designed to shun the famous labels and focus on the small, independent producers.In the run-up to the festive season \u2013 or before a wedding or big party \u2013 it's hard to think of a better weekend break. Though the pound is languishing against the euro, it is still possible to snap up bargain-price bottles which, first, don't have any tell-tale Tesco or Sainsbury's branding on them, and second, actually taste rather fine. The more you buy the more you save, and, better still, the weekend, including two nights' accommodation, lots of tastings, and an expert guide, costs as little as \u00a3199 per person. You just have to get to A\u00ff, either by car and ferry, or by train. Perhaps this is the perfect trip for our chastened times, a holiday that's simultaneously decadent and financially prudent \u2013 a credit-crunch-busting orgy of champagne.First stop, our chateau hotel, to meet our guide, the tr\u00e8s charmante Caroline Guizelin-Brun, owner of the Roger Brun champagne house, fluent English-speaker and fount of local knowledge.It's six in the evening, aperitif time, and Caroline welcomes us with a champagne bouquet: five gold-capped bottles on ice. So I am somewhat confused by her first question. \"Which do you prefer,\" she asks, \"Chardonnay or Pinot Noir?\"\"Er no, champagne, please,\" I reply, and sense from Caroline's patient smile that this isn't quite the right answer. She explains: pure Chardonnay champagnes are very light and fizzy. Pure Pinot Noirs are stronger-flavoured, fruitier. Pinot Meunier is usually added less for its taste than to help with the ageing process. Most champagnes are blends of two or more of these grapes.It is the first lesson in a weekend of champagne facts that will get your head reeling even more effectively than the bubbles will. It dawns on me that I have come here with shamefully vague notions of what champagne really is, and although I have visited the most famous houses in nearby Reims, I have never truly thought about different types of champagne beyond \"white\", \"pink\", \"dry\", \"sweet\", \"special-offer\" and \"bloody \u00adexpensive\".Caroline pops a bottle of Mumm. It's a Chardonnay-rich blend, she tells us, because it's always best to start a tasting with the lightest champagne. After our long drive, it is wonderfully crisp and refreshing, and it's not until I have almost emptied my glass that I remember this is meant to be a tasting rather than a cocktail party. But it's not my fault for forgetting, because there is something missing. \"Don't you have a bucket, so people can spit it out,\" I ask, not that I have \u00adanything left to spit. Caroline simply laughs.Even so, I notice she isn't emptying her glass. Is there something wrong with it? \"It's a perfectly acceptable champagne,\" she says, \"But in it there are grapes from 77 different crus or villages.\" It's the same with most of the big brands, apparently \u2013 to maintain their reputation, they have to produce a wine that looks and tastes the same every year, so they blend and blend until they get the right formula. Caroline opens a second bottle, a pure Chardonnay by Michel Genet, and it is like turning on a light bulb. Where the big-name blend was crisp, this one zings. If that one was refreshing, this is a waterfall.This difference is what tomorrow's tour of the village is going to be all about. For the same price as one of the big-name brands, you can buy champagnes made with grapes from a single vineyard, or a blend of the producer's own grapes that is tailor-made to give a completely individual taste.We meet next morning at 10.30 and stroll through the village to work up a thirst. The streets are lined with what look like miniature chateaux in high-walled courtyards. These are the champagne houses. Below our feet, Caroline says, is a maze of tunnels containing millions of bottles of maturing champagne. Until the Second World War it was possible to cross the village through the cellars. The Nazis built walls down there because Resistance fighters were using the tunnels as secret passageways and, presumably, to get up Dutch courage.We arrive at our first house, Goutorbe, which looks like, and is, a working farm at rest for winter. It is a million miles from the show-off showrooms of Reims. We are taken on a tour of the chilly 17th-century cellars where thousands of bottles are lying on their sides fermenting, a dense crowd of green glass eyes.Next we go to a warm lounge where several bottles are waiting on ice \u2013 \u00adaperitif time again. Two members of the Goutorbe family, Ren\u00e9 and his daughter Elisabeth, run us through their range of champagnes \u2013 their cuv\u00e9e tradition, for example, a fruity blend of two-thirds Pinot Noir, one-third Chardonnay, and the cuv\u00e9e prestige, aged for four years and therefore even richer in taste.Ren\u00e9 takes a good measure of each wine before he lets us taste it, no doubt checking that it is perfect. Conversation bubbles, and we glean little gems of insider knowledge. For example, the bubbliness of a champagne has little to do with the wine itself \u2013 it's mostly down to the glass. For maximum fizz, you have to scratch the bottom of the glass with a drill or diamond. The imperfection will release a stream of bubbles. And the best glass from which to drink champagne is neither the tall flute (no room for your nose) nor the wide coupe (which lets the aromas and bubbles escape) but a tulip-shaped glass. Mine is certainly working efficiently, and as Caroline takes us for another wander, the world feels a very mellow, tulip-shaped kind of place.At the Roger Brun house next to the church, the first thing Caroline's brother, Philippe, shows us is some lines painted in his yard. This isn't for visitors' cars, he tells us; it's because each different type of grape is brought to a separate space to await pressing. It is a grape park.He takes us through the pressing room and down into the cellars to see his fermenting ros\u00e9s. Pink champagne glows through transparent glass, and a layer of sediment is clearly visible at the bottom of each bottle. This yeast will be removed, or d\u00e9gorg\u00e9, he explains, by tipping the bottles downwards until the sediment collects in the neck, at which point the very end of the bottle is frozen so that the sediment is caught in an ice cube that will be expelled by the pressure of bubbles in the wine. Hey presto, clear bubbly. Human ingenuity knows no bounds when pleasure is at stake.In the tasting room, Philippe and Caroline crack open a La Pelle extra brut, a powerful champagne made with Pinot Noir grapes from a single section of the vineyard, called La Pelle \u2013 the spade \u2013 because gravediggers used to leave their tools at the edge of the field. Philippe tells us how each type of grape does its magic. Chardonnay fizzes on the back teeth, Pinot Meunier works on the tongue, and Pinot Noir settles on the lips and gives a longer aftertaste.I realise through the ever-thickening bubbly haze that this tour is not only alcoholic but highly educational. At a big champagne house, you will be told all about the brand's noble tradition, and the famous people who have drunk it. Here, you are talking to a man who loads his own grapes into the wine press, who tastes the juice at every stage of the production process and decides when to bottle each champagne. He is not just the organ-grinder; he made the organ.After lunch, which is accompanied by Philippe's easy-to-drink \u2013 very easy-to-drink \u2013 brut r\u00e9serve, we head, slowly but not all that surely, along the road so that Caroline can introduce us to Christian, one of the two brothers who run the Gosset-Brabant house.They work opposite the imposing Bollinger chateau, but are proud of their smallness. Christian explains that he uses no herbicides on his vines and that the grapes are crushed in a hand-controlled press, to make doubly sure that the cuv\u00e9e, the juice from the flesh, is separated out from the more bitter juices obtained around the pips and in the skin. Gosset-Brabant specialises in fruity, Pinot Noir-heavy champagnes, and Christian tastes his own wines with huge relish. \"Peaches,\" he exclaims at his r\u00e9serve grand cru brut, and his ros\u00e9 premier cru reminds him that Ay is the Japanese word for love.At the end of a day of \"tasting\" (that is, non-stop drinking), we all toast this idea heartily, though in the back of my mind is the recollection that A\u00ff also sounds like the French word for \"ouch\".I needn't have worried, though. Champagne is pretty pure stuff, and contains very few sulphates, the chemical that causes wine hangovers. Next morning my head is light and as clear as a bell. My bank balance is also lighter, but I really don't mind. For far less than what I would pay in London for a good but anonymous household-name champagne, I have stocked up with bottles that I feel I know personally. I have selected them for their own characteristic taste. Hell, I could practically point out on a map where each grape was grown. And I know exactly where each bubble is going, too. Cheers!\u2022 Stephen Clarke's latest novel, Dial M for Merde, is out now, published by Bantam PressThe champagne houses \u2022 Goutorbe, 9 rue Jeanson, A\u00ff (00 33 326 552170; www.champagne-henri-goutorbe.com). Cuv\u00e9e Tradition \u00a312.58, Cuv\u00e9e Prestige \u00a313.71 (sample prices per bottle). \u2022 Roger Brun, 10 rue St Vincent, A\u00ff (00 33 326 554550; www.champagne-roger-brun.com). La Pelle Extra Brut 2002 \u00a324.40, Brut R\u00e9serve \u00a311.78. Also offers B&B at about \u00a350 for a double room.\u2022 Gosset-Brabant, 23 bd Mal de Lattre de Tassigny, A\u00ff (00 33 326 551742; email gosset-brabant@wanadoo.fr). R\u00e9serve Grand Cru brut \u00a316.92, Ros\u00e9 Premier Cru \u00a316.41.While you are legally allowed to bring in as much wine from other EU countries as you want for personal use, more than 120 bottles could mean a few uncomfortable questions at Customs.The tour \u2022 Stephen Clarke travelled with Arblaster & Clarke Wine Tours (01730 263111; www.winetours.co.uk). Its champagne self-drive weekend costs from \u00a3199, and includes two nights in a family-run B&B, a tasting on the first evening, village tour on day two with three tastings and lunch and the option to visit Reims or Epernay on day three. Upgrading to the three-star Hotel Castel Jeanson, a manor house with indoor pool costs from \u00a390. \u2022 A\u00ff is is about 185 miles from Calais and the trip takes around three hours by car. Alternatively, travel by train to Epernay (about four-and-a-half hours from London St Pancras on Eurostar, from \u00a379 return; 08705 186186; www.eurostar.com) and then a taxi, which will take less than 10 minutes to reach A\u00ff.Vintage champagne is not necessarily the best - it just means that it comes from one particular year. Non-vintage can be preferable, because many winemakers prefer to blend two years to give a better flavour, and only create a single-year champagne - also known as a mill\u00e9sime - if it's a particularly good one.Extra brut means no sugar has been added. Brut is dry, with up to 12g of sugar per litre. Extra dry is actually not dry at all, with up to 18g of sugar per litre and demi sec can contain a syrupy 35g. Cru means village or vineyard. The best vineyards are classed grand cru because of their sunlit, well-drained positions. A premier cru is almost as good. If neither is on the label, it's from a basic champagne vineyard. Cuv\u00e9e is the first pressing, giving the best juice from the flesh of the grape. Premi\u00e8re taille is in fact the second pressing. Blanc de blancs means wine made from white (green) grapes. A blanc de noirs is white wine made from black grapes.Some producers will include the words 'traces of egg' on bottles destined for the UK. Egg white is put into fermented grape juice to force the biggest sediment to settle.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Wine", "Life and style"], "title": "Stephen Clarke heads on into Champagne to seek out bargains straight from the cellars"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "In April, my boyfriend and I made our fourth trip of the winter back to our old haunt Morzine, staying with friends who were working in a chalet there. Hospitable and lively, Morzine is the resort of choice for many a British seasonnaire. But come the end of April, the tourists have left town, most of the chalets, apartments and hotels have closed their doors, and the majority of seasonnaires are gone, just goggle marks, a few neat tricks and a dose of the clap to their names.Peace descends. Yet the lifts are still turning and the pistes are still groomed. For those who have stuck around, there is more to be had. The last week of the season. At the very end of April this year we basked deliriously in two days of fresh powder. Our posse felt like we were the only ones on the mountain.For me, the last week of the season is the week of the season. And the party of the week of the season takes place at Chez Flo in nearby Avoriaz, when the usually civil restaurant is gripped with end-of-season madness of the very best kind. This is why we really come. We kick off at noon, faces already flushed from a morning's corduroy-riding grow ruddier with exuberant amounts of ros\u00e9. The decking is packed with tables, everyone initiated in what lies ahead. A giant paella cooks outside, yellow rice and orange prawns bright against the snow. Waiters gallop between long tables, napkins flutter in the breeze, the sun beats down on beanied-heads and welds goggles to faces; everyone gets an unavoidable red-neck tan. The band sets up on the snow. Chords strike. The sky is very, very blue. The G\u00e9n\u00e9pi appears, the clear spirit that maketh monsters. The music gets louder. Beer is slopping in the snowy mosh pit. Someone thinks it's a smart idea to get a final ride in, on the last lift. The place is crammed with lifties, pisteurs, red-coat instructors. We are all celebrating. The season that was. The seasons that will be. We've had our fill of snow for a little while, we've had more than most, and our faces are joyfully turned to the sun.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Morzine, France, April"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We were up before 6am, on the road by 6.30am and threading our way through silent lanes as the sun slowly spilt into the French fields and warmed our aching legs. This was day three of a cycling trip from Caen in Normandy all the way through rural France to the Mediterranean.We averaged 50 miles a day, stopping each night at a chambre d'hote or small hotel. With us came one spare set of kit, a few clothes for the evening, wash bags and wet weather gear, all crammed into the smallest possible saddle bags, along with puncture repair kits and emergency supplies of water and chocolate. After the first couple of days, we fell into a pattern. Creep out at dawn, check the maps, pass the sleepy cattle and greet the two or three farmers we might see before 8.30am. Stop for breakfast at another inviting patisserie and savour a delicious croissant and caf\u00e9 au lait while watching local life shuffle by. We'd get bread, cheese and fruit for lunch and cycle on for another couple of hours, hoping to find a patch of shade for our picnics. Then, back in the saddle for the final heave to our destination, where we'd pour an ice-cold beer down our throats as we planned our route for the next day. In bed by 10, with our washed cycling shorts gently drying at the window, our dreams were full of that day's vistas. Ch\u00e2teaux, miles of unbroken green with flashes of red poppies, medieval hill-top towns, the lemon-coloured morning sun easing the mist from the fields, some fantastic swoops down into villages, when we'd freewheel at amazing speeds, shouting into the wind. These wonderful dips were too often followed by an exhausting climb out, when five miles an hour seemed an achievement, but the cold water at the top tasted like the best champagne. Four friends took the trip - two super-fit Kiwis and two south-coast Brits. None of us was a \"real\" cyclist, but we each brought a unique skill to the group. Alan, the fittest, would steam ahead, and find the best possible place for our picnic lunches. Angie was the chief organiser, who liked to plan our routes and decide where we stayed. My husband was head map reader and packer of saddle bags, while my ability to speak French meant I was most useful at explaining we needed somewhere to lock up our bikes and that we'd be gone before breakfast. It was an amazingly simple holiday. We cycled from our front door to Portsmouth harbour, across to France on the overnight ferry, then pedalled for 13 days and 712 miles to reach the Med. I consumed more calories than at any other time in my life and still lost 7lbs.When we reached our destination and had to pack up our bikes to fly home, we agreed that - if not for work waiting for us - we would have cycled back again.", "tags": ["Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Cycling across France, May"},{"date": "2008-10-16T18:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "There is nothing uniquely African about corruption \u2013 or war, or arms trafficking, or the power of petroleum to encourage excessively selfish behaviour among men. If any good could come of Angolagate, it might be this: a lesson for the many millions of westerners who still manage to delude themselves with the idea that Africans are somehow nastier and greedier (or, in the case of mainstream media and pop-star portrayals, simpler and sweeter) than the rest of us.Among those accused in the arms-to-Angola scandal is a long list of French businessmen and senior government officials, many of whom served during the presidency (1981 to 1995) of the late Fran\u00e7ois Mitterand. His own son, 61-year-old Jean-Christophe, is accused of \"complicity in illegal trade and embezzlement\" and of having received over $2.6 million in bribes. Yet I hear no moans and groans in Britain about the corrupt bloody French. Despite its name, Angolagate is more a reflection of French greed and French politics than Angolan corruption, even if several Angolans probably did also walk away with large wads of wonga.In 1993, just months after a first and very flawed election had collapsed the year before, the Angolan war escalated considerably. The central highland cities of Kuito and Huambo were among the worst affected, split down the middle between forces loyal to the ruling Movimento Popular da Liberta\u00e7\u00e3o de Angola (MPLA) and the then rebel army, Uni\u00e3o Nacional para a Independ\u00eancia Total de Angola (Unita).Angolan President Jos\u00e9 Eduardo Dos Santos was desperate, and feared he would finally be defeated by his oldest and most brilliant enemy, Unita leader Jonas Malheiro Savimbi. So the story goes, he called up an old socialist comrade, Jean-Bernard Curial, who also happened to be the Africa advisor to Mitterand's Parti Socialiste (PS). The networks swung into action, and soon huge arms deals were under way involving the Angolan, Slovakian and Russian governments. All almost well and good: the only sticking point was the conservative French ministry of defence, which favoured Savimbi's rightwing Unita over the still seemingly socialist MPLA.As Global Witness's Alex Yearsley puts it:There was a double French policy concerning Angola, a hangover from the Cold War if you like. And those battles \u2013 between right and left, between who gets into the French presidency and who doesn't - have continued. This is how the Angolagate trial should be understood. The French political establishment are having their dirty laundry put on show in the death throes of a trial that was supposed to be about corruption, arms dealing and money laundering.With this in mind, it will be interesting to see how far President Nicolas Sarkozy will go to protect his new-found friendship with Dos Santos. Observers in Paris expect the French investigating judge, Philippe Courroye, to subpoena senior Angolans - including the president - who have been named in the indictment, and accused of financially benefiting from the arms deals. But Sarkozy will not want to upset the Angolan leader, who heads what is one of Africa's largest oil-producing nations pumping out close to 2 million barrels a day.The trial is expected to last five months, which would push proceedings into March next year \u2013 the same year that marks Dos Santos' 30th in power, and the same year in which he has promised to hold presidential elections (the first in 17 years). The last thing he needs is details of backhanders and arms deals splattered across the newspapers. If he is embarrassed publicly, he will ensure that French interests suffer in Angola's oil, energy and construction sectors. Which is why we should be watching Sarkozy closely.Incidentally, earlier this month, Dr Edward George, an economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit, reported that the French presidency is alleged to have intervened in another case involving another African leader, this one being Cote d'Ivoire's President Laurent Gbagbo. Gbagbo's wife, Simone Gbagbo, was linked to the 2004 disappearance of French-Canadian journalist, Guy-Andr\u00e9 Kieffer.Earlier this year, she and an Ivorian minister received a summons from a French court seeking to hear evidence from them. The court had also communicated with an anonymous witness who wanted to give evidence about Kieffer's disappearance. This all sounds like progress, except that the witness lost his nerve and refused to testify, citing pressure and intimidation from the office of the French presidency.All of this amounts to gloomy news for those Angolans who would like to see some measure of justice and equality introduced onto the Angolan political scene. They have just seen the MPLA take a landslide victory of almost 82% in legislative elections that were far from being truly free or fair. The party, as Angolan writer Sousa Jamba told me, is \"above any criticism, and it will be a long time before the Angolan establishment will be ready for any scrutiny.\"", "tags": ["Angola", "France", "Law", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Lara Pawson: Angolagate shames France"},{"date": "2008-11-04T13:15:21Z", "country": "france", "content": "Another footnote of the imperial spread of BBC Worldwide today as some major BBC dramas are added to iTunes France. Pride and Prejudice, Torchwood, Extras and The Lost World are now all available en France either as a complete series or in individual episodes. Most shows are available in French and in English and start at \u20ac1.99 for one episode.This makes the BBC - or rather BBC Worldwide - the first UK broadcaster to make programmes available on the iTunes Store in France, just as it was in the UK.Photograph: _sarchi/Flickr/Some rights reserved", "tags": ["BBC", "Digital media", "Media", "Technology", "iTunes", "Apple"], "title": "BBC shows join iTunes France"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "france", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-30T00:04:51Z", "country": "france", "content": "A self-drive champagne-tasting trip? It sounded like a literal crash course. I would need to get airbags fitted to the outside of the car, to be sure I would bounce off oncoming vehicles and vineyards. Either that or hire someone from \u00adTeetotaldrivers.com.Before investing, though, I enquired further, and heard the good news: that we would be walking between the champagne houses, so there was no danger of crashing, getting breathalysed or \u2013 worse \u2013 having to limit my tasting to one sip per glass. The only driving I would do was to the village of A\u00ff (pronounced 'ah-yee'), near Epernay, which is home to some 30 champagne houses. These include some of the big boys, such as Deutz and Bollinger, but this tour is designed to shun the famous labels and focus on the small, independent producers.In the run-up to the festive season \u2013 or before a wedding or big party \u2013 it's hard to think of a better weekend break. Though the pound is languishing against the euro, it is still possible to snap up bargain-price bottles which, first, don't have any tell-tale Tesco or Sainsbury's branding on them, and second, actually taste rather fine. The more you buy the more you save, and, better still, the weekend, including two nights' accommodation, lots of tastings, and an expert guide, costs as little as \u00a3199 per person. You just have to get to A\u00ff, either by car and ferry, or by train. Perhaps this is the perfect trip for our chastened times, a holiday that's simultaneously decadent and financially prudent \u2013 a credit-crunch-busting orgy of champagne.First stop, our chateau hotel, to meet our guide, the tr\u00e8s charmante Caroline Guizelin-Brun, owner of the Roger Brun champagne house, fluent English-speaker and fount of local knowledge.It's six in the evening, aperitif time, and Caroline welcomes us with a champagne bouquet: five gold-capped bottles on ice. So I am somewhat confused by her first question. \"Which do you prefer,\" she asks, \"Chardonnay or Pinot Noir?\"\"Er no, champagne, please,\" I reply, and sense from Caroline's patient smile that this isn't quite the right answer. She explains: pure Chardonnay champagnes are very light and fizzy. Pure Pinot Noirs are stronger-flavoured, fruitier. Pinot Meunier is usually added less for its taste than to help with the ageing process. Most champagnes are blends of two or more of these grapes.It is the first lesson in a weekend of champagne facts that will get your head reeling even more effectively than the bubbles will. It dawns on me that I have come here with shamefully vague notions of what champagne really is, and although I have visited the most famous houses in nearby Reims, I have never truly thought about different types of champagne beyond \"white\", \"pink\", \"dry\", \"sweet\", \"special-offer\" and \"bloody \u00adexpensive\".Caroline pops a bottle of Mumm. It's a Chardonnay-rich blend, she tells us, because it's always best to start a tasting with the lightest champagne. After our long drive, it is wonderfully crisp and refreshing, and it's not until I have almost emptied my glass that I remember this is meant to be a tasting rather than a cocktail party. But it's not my fault for forgetting, because there is something missing. \"Don't you have a bucket, so people can spit it out,\" I ask, not that I have \u00adanything left to spit. Caroline simply laughs.Even so, I notice she isn't emptying her glass. Is there something wrong with it? \"It's a perfectly acceptable champagne,\" she says, \"But in it there are grapes from 77 different crus or villages.\" It's the same with most of the big brands, apparently \u2013 to maintain their reputation, they have to produce a wine that looks and tastes the same every year, so they blend and blend until they get the right formula. Caroline opens a second bottle, a pure Chardonnay by Michel Genet, and it is like turning on a light bulb. Where the big-name blend was crisp, this one zings. If that one was refreshing, this is a waterfall.This difference is what tomorrow's tour of the village is going to be all about. For the same price as one of the big-name brands, you can buy champagnes made with grapes from a single vineyard, or a blend of the producer's own grapes that is tailor-made to give a completely individual taste.We meet next morning at 10.30 and stroll through the village to work up a thirst. The streets are lined with what look like miniature chateaux in high-walled courtyards. These are the champagne houses. Below our feet, Caroline says, is a maze of tunnels containing millions of bottles of maturing champagne. Until the Second World War it was possible to cross the village through the cellars. The Nazis built walls down there because Resistance fighters were using the tunnels as secret passageways and, presumably, to get up Dutch courage.We arrive at our first house, Goutorbe, which looks like, and is, a working farm at rest for winter. It is a million miles from the show-off showrooms of Reims. We are taken on a tour of the chilly 17th-century cellars where thousands of bottles are lying on their sides fermenting, a dense crowd of green glass eyes.Next we go to a warm lounge where several bottles are waiting on ice \u2013 \u00adaperitif time again. Two members of the Goutorbe family, Ren\u00e9 and his daughter Elisabeth, run us through their range of champagnes \u2013 their cuv\u00e9e tradition, for example, a fruity blend of two-thirds Pinot Noir, one-third Chardonnay, and the cuv\u00e9e prestige, aged for four years and therefore even richer in taste.Ren\u00e9 takes a good measure of each wine before he lets us taste it, no doubt checking that it is perfect. Conversation bubbles, and we glean little gems of insider knowledge. For example, the bubbliness of a champagne has little to do with the wine itself \u2013 it's mostly down to the glass. For maximum fizz, you have to scratch the bottom of the glass with a drill or diamond. The imperfection will release a stream of bubbles. And the best glass from which to drink champagne is neither the tall flute (no room for your nose) nor the wide coupe (which lets the aromas and bubbles escape) but a tulip-shaped glass. Mine is certainly working efficiently, and as Caroline takes us for another wander, the world feels a very mellow, tulip-shaped kind of place.At the Roger Brun house next to the church, the first thing Caroline's brother, Philippe, shows us is some lines painted in his yard. This isn't for visitors' cars, he tells us; it's because each different type of grape is brought to a separate space to await pressing. It is a grape park.He takes us through the pressing room and down into the cellars to see his fermenting ros\u00e9s. Pink champagne glows through transparent glass, and a layer of sediment is clearly visible at the bottom of each bottle. This yeast will be removed, or d\u00e9gorg\u00e9, he explains, by tipping the bottles downwards until the sediment collects in the neck, at which point the very end of the bottle is frozen so that the sediment is caught in an ice cube that will be expelled by the pressure of bubbles in the wine. Hey presto, clear bubbly. Human ingenuity knows no bounds when pleasure is at stake.In the tasting room, Philippe and Caroline crack open a La Pelle extra brut, a powerful champagne made with Pinot Noir grapes from a single section of the vineyard, called La Pelle \u2013 the spade \u2013 because gravediggers used to leave their tools at the edge of the field. Philippe tells us how each type of grape does its magic. Chardonnay fizzes on the back teeth, Pinot Meunier works on the tongue, and Pinot Noir settles on the lips and gives a longer aftertaste.I realise through the ever-thickening bubbly haze that this tour is not only alcoholic but highly educational. At a big champagne house, you will be told all about the brand's noble tradition, and the famous people who have drunk it. Here, you are talking to a man who loads his own grapes into the wine press, who tastes the juice at every stage of the production process and decides when to bottle each champagne. He is not just the organ-grinder; he made the organ.After lunch, which is accompanied by Philippe's easy-to-drink \u2013 very easy-to-drink \u2013 brut r\u00e9serve, we head, slowly but not all that surely, along the road so that Caroline can introduce us to Christian, one of the two brothers who run the Gosset-Brabant house.They work opposite the imposing Bollinger chateau, but are proud of their smallness. Christian explains that he uses no herbicides on his vines and that the grapes are crushed in a hand-controlled press, to make doubly sure that the cuv\u00e9e, the juice from the flesh, is separated out from the more bitter juices obtained around the pips and in the skin. Gosset-Brabant specialises in fruity, Pinot Noir-heavy champagnes, and Christian tastes his own wines with huge relish. \"Peaches,\" he exclaims at his r\u00e9serve grand cru brut, and his ros\u00e9 premier cru reminds him that Ay is the Japanese word for love.At the end of a day of \"tasting\" (that is, non-stop drinking), we all toast this idea heartily, though in the back of my mind is the recollection that A\u00ff also sounds like the French word for \"ouch\".I needn't have worried, though. Champagne is pretty pure stuff, and contains very few sulphates, the chemical that causes wine hangovers. Next morning my head is light and as clear as a bell. My bank balance is also lighter, but I really don't mind. For far less than what I would pay in London for a good but anonymous household-name champagne, I have stocked up with bottles that I feel I know personally. I have selected them for their own characteristic taste. Hell, I could practically point out on a map where each grape was grown. And I know exactly where each bubble is going, too. Cheers!\u2022 Stephen Clarke's latest novel, Dial M for Merde, is out now, published by Bantam PressThe champagne houses \u2022 Goutorbe, 9 rue Jeanson, A\u00ff (00 33 326 552170; www.champagne-henri-goutorbe.com). Cuv\u00e9e Tradition \u00a312.58, Cuv\u00e9e Prestige \u00a313.71 (sample prices per bottle). \u2022 Roger Brun, 10 rue St Vincent, A\u00ff (00 33 326 554550; www.champagne-roger-brun.com). La Pelle Extra Brut 2002 \u00a324.40, Brut R\u00e9serve \u00a311.78. Also offers B&B at about \u00a350 for a double room.\u2022 Gosset-Brabant, 23 bd Mal de Lattre de Tassigny, A\u00ff (00 33 326 551742; email gosset-brabant@wanadoo.fr). R\u00e9serve Grand Cru brut \u00a316.92, Ros\u00e9 Premier Cru \u00a316.41.While you are legally allowed to bring in as much wine from other EU countries as you want for personal use, more than 120 bottles could mean a few uncomfortable questions at Customs.The tour \u2022 Stephen Clarke travelled with Arblaster & Clarke Wine Tours (01730 263111; www.winetours.co.uk). Its champagne self-drive weekend costs from \u00a3199, and includes two nights in a family-run B&B, a tasting on the first evening, village tour on day two with three tastings and lunch and the option to visit Reims or Epernay on day three. Upgrading to the three-star Hotel Castel Jeanson, a manor house with indoor pool costs from \u00a390. \u2022 A\u00ff is is about 185 miles from Calais and the trip takes around three hours by car. Alternatively, travel by train to Epernay (about four-and-a-half hours from London St Pancras on Eurostar, from \u00a379 return; 08705 186186; www.eurostar.com) and then a taxi, which will take less than 10 minutes to reach A\u00ff.Vintage champagne is not necessarily the best - it just means that it comes from one particular year. Non-vintage can be preferable, because many winemakers prefer to blend two years to give a better flavour, and only create a single-year champagne - also known as a mill\u00e9sime - if it's a particularly good one.Extra brut means no sugar has been added. Brut is dry, with up to 12g of sugar per litre. Extra dry is actually not dry at all, with up to 18g of sugar per litre and demi sec can contain a syrupy 35g. Cru means village or vineyard. The best vineyards are classed grand cru because of their sunlit, well-drained positions. A premier cru is almost as good. If neither is on the label, it's from a basic champagne vineyard. Cuv\u00e9e is the first pressing, giving the best juice from the flesh of the grape. Premi\u00e8re taille is in fact the second pressing. Blanc de blancs means wine made from white (green) grapes. A blanc de noirs is white wine made from black grapes.Some producers will include the words 'traces of egg' on bottles destined for the UK. Egg white is put into fermented grape juice to force the biggest sediment to settle.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Wine", "Life and style"], "title": "Stephen Clarke heads on into Champagne to seek out bargains straight from the cellars"},{"date": "2008-11-20T09:06:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "Air France-KLM, Europe's biggest airline, today accentuated the precarious state of the European economy by reporting a 96% plunge in second quarter net earnings to just \u20ac28m (\u00a323.6m).It delivered an effective profits warning by admitting that its target of \u20ac1bn in operating earnings this year would be \"very difficult\" to achieve - though it would clearly be in profit.The airline saw first-half sales rise 4.4% to \u20ac13bn, with operating earnings at \u20ac639m despite a 35% rise in fuel prices during the period. Jean-Cyril Spinetta, chief executive, indicated the group would take out a further \u20ac260m of costs.Its relative woes come as chemicals group BASF has said it will slash production and car-makers are temporarily shutting down plants and preparing for a 30-hour week for production workers.EU governments are being urged to adopt stimulus packages worth 1% of GDP or a collective \u20ac130bn to help pull their economies out of prolonged recession but analysts say this is too little.", "tags": ["Airline industry", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Air France-KLM profits plunge 96%"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "In April, my boyfriend and I made our fourth trip of the winter back to our old haunt Morzine, staying with friends who were working in a chalet there. Hospitable and lively, Morzine is the resort of choice for many a British seasonnaire. But come the end of April, the tourists have left town, most of the chalets, apartments and hotels have closed their doors, and the majority of seasonnaires are gone, just goggle marks, a few neat tricks and a dose of the clap to their names.Peace descends. Yet the lifts are still turning and the pistes are still groomed. For those who have stuck around, there is more to be had. The last week of the season. At the very end of April this year we basked deliriously in two days of fresh powder. Our posse felt like we were the only ones on the mountain.For me, the last week of the season is the week of the season. And the party of the week of the season takes place at Chez Flo in nearby Avoriaz, when the usually civil restaurant is gripped with end-of-season madness of the very best kind. This is why we really come. We kick off at noon, faces already flushed from a morning's corduroy-riding grow ruddier with exuberant amounts of ros\u00e9. The decking is packed with tables, everyone initiated in what lies ahead. A giant paella cooks outside, yellow rice and orange prawns bright against the snow. Waiters gallop between long tables, napkins flutter in the breeze, the sun beats down on beanied-heads and welds goggles to faces; everyone gets an unavoidable red-neck tan. The band sets up on the snow. Chords strike. The sky is very, very blue. The G\u00e9n\u00e9pi appears, the clear spirit that maketh monsters. The music gets louder. Beer is slopping in the snowy mosh pit. Someone thinks it's a smart idea to get a final ride in, on the last lift. The place is crammed with lifties, pisteurs, red-coat instructors. We are all celebrating. The season that was. The seasons that will be. We've had our fill of snow for a little while, we've had more than most, and our faces are joyfully turned to the sun.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Morzine, France, April"},{"date": "2008-12-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "We were up before 6am, on the road by 6.30am and threading our way through silent lanes as the sun slowly spilt into the French fields and warmed our aching legs. This was day three of a cycling trip from Caen in Normandy all the way through rural France to the Mediterranean.We averaged 50 miles a day, stopping each night at a chambre d'hote or small hotel. With us came one spare set of kit, a few clothes for the evening, wash bags and wet weather gear, all crammed into the smallest possible saddle bags, along with puncture repair kits and emergency supplies of water and chocolate. After the first couple of days, we fell into a pattern. Creep out at dawn, check the maps, pass the sleepy cattle and greet the two or three farmers we might see before 8.30am. Stop for breakfast at another inviting patisserie and savour a delicious croissant and caf\u00e9 au lait while watching local life shuffle by. We'd get bread, cheese and fruit for lunch and cycle on for another couple of hours, hoping to find a patch of shade for our picnics. Then, back in the saddle for the final heave to our destination, where we'd pour an ice-cold beer down our throats as we planned our route for the next day. In bed by 10, with our washed cycling shorts gently drying at the window, our dreams were full of that day's vistas. Ch\u00e2teaux, miles of unbroken green with flashes of red poppies, medieval hill-top towns, the lemon-coloured morning sun easing the mist from the fields, some fantastic swoops down into villages, when we'd freewheel at amazing speeds, shouting into the wind. These wonderful dips were too often followed by an exhausting climb out, when five miles an hour seemed an achievement, but the cold water at the top tasted like the best champagne. Four friends took the trip - two super-fit Kiwis and two south-coast Brits. None of us was a \"real\" cyclist, but we each brought a unique skill to the group. Alan, the fittest, would steam ahead, and find the best possible place for our picnic lunches. Angie was the chief organiser, who liked to plan our routes and decide where we stayed. My husband was head map reader and packer of saddle bags, while my ability to speak French meant I was most useful at explaining we needed somewhere to lock up our bikes and that we'd be gone before breakfast. It was an amazingly simple holiday. We cycled from our front door to Portsmouth harbour, across to France on the overnight ferry, then pedalled for 13 days and 712 miles to reach the Med. I consumed more calories than at any other time in my life and still lost 7lbs.When we reached our destination and had to pack up our bikes to fly home, we agreed that - if not for work waiting for us - we would have cycled back again.", "tags": ["Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Your highs and lows of 2008: Cycling across France, May"},{"date": "2008-10-16T18:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "There is nothing uniquely African about corruption \u2013 or war, or arms trafficking, or the power of petroleum to encourage excessively selfish behaviour among men. If any good could come of Angolagate, it might be this: a lesson for the many millions of westerners who still manage to delude themselves with the idea that Africans are somehow nastier and greedier (or, in the case of mainstream media and pop-star portrayals, simpler and sweeter) than the rest of us.Among those accused in the arms-to-Angola scandal is a long list of French businessmen and senior government officials, many of whom served during the presidency (1981 to 1995) of the late Fran\u00e7ois Mitterand. His own son, 61-year-old Jean-Christophe, is accused of \"complicity in illegal trade and embezzlement\" and of having received over $2.6 million in bribes. Yet I hear no moans and groans in Britain about the corrupt bloody French. Despite its name, Angolagate is more a reflection of French greed and French politics than Angolan corruption, even if several Angolans probably did also walk away with large wads of wonga.In 1993, just months after a first and very flawed election had collapsed the year before, the Angolan war escalated considerably. The central highland cities of Kuito and Huambo were among the worst affected, split down the middle between forces loyal to the ruling Movimento Popular da Liberta\u00e7\u00e3o de Angola (MPLA) and the then rebel army, Uni\u00e3o Nacional para a Independ\u00eancia Total de Angola (Unita).Angolan President Jos\u00e9 Eduardo Dos Santos was desperate, and feared he would finally be defeated by his oldest and most brilliant enemy, Unita leader Jonas Malheiro Savimbi. So the story goes, he called up an old socialist comrade, Jean-Bernard Curial, who also happened to be the Africa advisor to Mitterand's Parti Socialiste (PS). The networks swung into action, and soon huge arms deals were under way involving the Angolan, Slovakian and Russian governments. All almost well and good: the only sticking point was the conservative French ministry of defence, which favoured Savimbi's rightwing Unita over the still seemingly socialist MPLA.As Global Witness's Alex Yearsley puts it:There was a double French policy concerning Angola, a hangover from the Cold War if you like. And those battles \u2013 between right and left, between who gets into the French presidency and who doesn't - have continued. This is how the Angolagate trial should be understood. The French political establishment are having their dirty laundry put on show in the death throes of a trial that was supposed to be about corruption, arms dealing and money laundering.With this in mind, it will be interesting to see how far President Nicolas Sarkozy will go to protect his new-found friendship with Dos Santos. Observers in Paris expect the French investigating judge, Philippe Courroye, to subpoena senior Angolans - including the president - who have been named in the indictment, and accused of financially benefiting from the arms deals. But Sarkozy will not want to upset the Angolan leader, who heads what is one of Africa's largest oil-producing nations pumping out close to 2 million barrels a day.The trial is expected to last five months, which would push proceedings into March next year \u2013 the same year that marks Dos Santos' 30th in power, and the same year in which he has promised to hold presidential elections (the first in 17 years). The last thing he needs is details of backhanders and arms deals splattered across the newspapers. If he is embarrassed publicly, he will ensure that French interests suffer in Angola's oil, energy and construction sectors. Which is why we should be watching Sarkozy closely.Incidentally, earlier this month, Dr Edward George, an economist at the Economist Intelligence Unit, reported that the French presidency is alleged to have intervened in another case involving another African leader, this one being Cote d'Ivoire's President Laurent Gbagbo. Gbagbo's wife, Simone Gbagbo, was linked to the 2004 disappearance of French-Canadian journalist, Guy-Andr\u00e9 Kieffer.Earlier this year, she and an Ivorian minister received a summons from a French court seeking to hear evidence from them. The court had also communicated with an anonymous witness who wanted to give evidence about Kieffer's disappearance. This all sounds like progress, except that the witness lost his nerve and refused to testify, citing pressure and intimidation from the office of the French presidency.All of this amounts to gloomy news for those Angolans who would like to see some measure of justice and equality introduced onto the Angolan political scene. They have just seen the MPLA take a landslide victory of almost 82% in legislative elections that were far from being truly free or fair. The party, as Angolan writer Sousa Jamba told me, is \"above any criticism, and it will be a long time before the Angolan establishment will be ready for any scrutiny.\"", "tags": ["Angola", "France", "Law", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Lara Pawson: Angolagate shames France"},{"date": "2008-11-04T13:15:21Z", "country": "france", "content": "Another footnote of the imperial spread of BBC Worldwide today as some major BBC dramas are added to iTunes France. Pride and Prejudice, Torchwood, Extras and The Lost World are now all available en France either as a complete series or in individual episodes. Most shows are available in French and in English and start at \u20ac1.99 for one episode.This makes the BBC - or rather BBC Worldwide - the first UK broadcaster to make programmes available on the iTunes Store in France, just as it was in the UK.Photograph: _sarchi/Flickr/Some rights reserved", "tags": ["BBC", "Digital media", "Media", "Technology", "iTunes", "Apple"], "title": "BBC shows join iTunes France"},{"date": "2008-12-08T14:03:09Z", "country": "france", "content": "Britain will fall behind eurozone laggard Italy in the global economic league table next year as a deep recession and the weakness of the pound affect the value of national output, a London-based consultancy said today.After ranking fourth behind the United States, Japan and Germany in terms of the size of the economy earlier this decade, the UK is set to end 2009 in seventh place, the Centre for Economics and Business Research said.Britain has already ceded fourth place to China and will be overtaken this year by France, the CEBR said. Next year, both Britain and Italy are expected to suffer severe recessions but Italy's gross domestic product will have a higher market value than Britain due to the weakness of the pound against the euro. The report said the UK's output at market exchange rates will edge down from $2.80 trillion (\u00a31.9tn) in 2007 to $2.78tn this year, before falling far more sharply to $2.04tn in 2009. Italy's is expected to decline from $2.40tn to $2.17tn.Ben Read, managing economist at the CEBR, said: \"The UK economy overtook both Italy and France in the 1990s. However, this position was based on an over-valued sterling and debt-fuelled growth; it is set to be reversed.\" If the forecasts come true, it will not be the first time Italy has overtaken Britain in the world economic rankings. In the 1980s, there were celebrations for \"Il Sorpasso\", the moment when Italy's GDP was judged to be bigger than the UK's.The CEBR found, however, that both countries would suffer badly from the global downturn. After uninterrupted growth lasting 16 years, the report said it would take 18 quarters for GDP in the UK to return to the peak reached earlier this year. Italy will suffer a similar period of retrenchment, but the strength of the euro will mean that the value of its output will fall far less sharply. Germany will take 14 quarters to restore GDP to its previous level and Spain 16 quarters. France is expected to be the major European country least affected by the recession, taking six quarters to return output to its previous peak. Richard Snook, one of the authors of the report, said: \"The UK economy is likely to be the hardest hit by the credit crunch due to its reliance on consumer borrowing and the financial sector for growth. We see the economy taking four-and-a-half years to return to the peak in the second quarter of 2008. Only the Italian economy, which is beset by structural weaknesses, is set to do worse.\"", "tags": ["Recession", "Business", "Economics", "UK news", "France", "Italy", "Europe"], "title": "Italy and France 'to overtake UK economy'"},{"date": "2008-11-30T00:04:51Z", "country": "france", "content": "A self-drive champagne-tasting trip? It sounded like a literal crash course. I would need to get airbags fitted to the outside of the car, to be sure I would bounce off oncoming vehicles and vineyards. Either that or hire someone from \u00adTeetotaldrivers.com.Before investing, though, I enquired further, and heard the good news: that we would be walking between the champagne houses, so there was no danger of crashing, getting breathalysed or \u2013 worse \u2013 having to limit my tasting to one sip per glass. The only driving I would do was to the village of A\u00ff (pronounced 'ah-yee'), near Epernay, which is home to some 30 champagne houses. These include some of the big boys, such as Deutz and Bollinger, but this tour is designed to shun the famous labels and focus on the small, independent producers.In the run-up to the festive season \u2013 or before a wedding or big party \u2013 it's hard to think of a better weekend break. Though the pound is languishing against the euro, it is still possible to snap up bargain-price bottles which, first, don't have any tell-tale Tesco or Sainsbury's branding on them, and second, actually taste rather fine. The more you buy the more you save, and, better still, the weekend, including two nights' accommodation, lots of tastings, and an expert guide, costs as little as \u00a3199 per person. You just have to get to A\u00ff, either by car and ferry, or by train. Perhaps this is the perfect trip for our chastened times, a holiday that's simultaneously decadent and financially prudent \u2013 a credit-crunch-busting orgy of champagne.First stop, our chateau hotel, to meet our guide, the tr\u00e8s charmante Caroline Guizelin-Brun, owner of the Roger Brun champagne house, fluent English-speaker and fount of local knowledge.It's six in the evening, aperitif time, and Caroline welcomes us with a champagne bouquet: five gold-capped bottles on ice. So I am somewhat confused by her first question. \"Which do you prefer,\" she asks, \"Chardonnay or Pinot Noir?\"\"Er no, champagne, please,\" I reply, and sense from Caroline's patient smile that this isn't quite the right answer. She explains: pure Chardonnay champagnes are very light and fizzy. Pure Pinot Noirs are stronger-flavoured, fruitier. Pinot Meunier is usually added less for its taste than to help with the ageing process. Most champagnes are blends of two or more of these grapes.It is the first lesson in a weekend of champagne facts that will get your head reeling even more effectively than the bubbles will. It dawns on me that I have come here with shamefully vague notions of what champagne really is, and although I have visited the most famous houses in nearby Reims, I have never truly thought about different types of champagne beyond \"white\", \"pink\", \"dry\", \"sweet\", \"special-offer\" and \"bloody \u00adexpensive\".Caroline pops a bottle of Mumm. It's a Chardonnay-rich blend, she tells us, because it's always best to start a tasting with the lightest champagne. After our long drive, it is wonderfully crisp and refreshing, and it's not until I have almost emptied my glass that I remember this is meant to be a tasting rather than a cocktail party. But it's not my fault for forgetting, because there is something missing. \"Don't you have a bucket, so people can spit it out,\" I ask, not that I have \u00adanything left to spit. Caroline simply laughs.Even so, I notice she isn't emptying her glass. Is there something wrong with it? \"It's a perfectly acceptable champagne,\" she says, \"But in it there are grapes from 77 different crus or villages.\" It's the same with most of the big brands, apparently \u2013 to maintain their reputation, they have to produce a wine that looks and tastes the same every year, so they blend and blend until they get the right formula. Caroline opens a second bottle, a pure Chardonnay by Michel Genet, and it is like turning on a light bulb. Where the big-name blend was crisp, this one zings. If that one was refreshing, this is a waterfall.This difference is what tomorrow's tour of the village is going to be all about. For the same price as one of the big-name brands, you can buy champagnes made with grapes from a single vineyard, or a blend of the producer's own grapes that is tailor-made to give a completely individual taste.We meet next morning at 10.30 and stroll through the village to work up a thirst. The streets are lined with what look like miniature chateaux in high-walled courtyards. These are the champagne houses. Below our feet, Caroline says, is a maze of tunnels containing millions of bottles of maturing champagne. Until the Second World War it was possible to cross the village through the cellars. The Nazis built walls down there because Resistance fighters were using the tunnels as secret passageways and, presumably, to get up Dutch courage.We arrive at our first house, Goutorbe, which looks like, and is, a working farm at rest for winter. It is a million miles from the show-off showrooms of Reims. We are taken on a tour of the chilly 17th-century cellars where thousands of bottles are lying on their sides fermenting, a dense crowd of green glass eyes.Next we go to a warm lounge where several bottles are waiting on ice \u2013 \u00adaperitif time again. Two members of the Goutorbe family, Ren\u00e9 and his daughter Elisabeth, run us through their range of champagnes \u2013 their cuv\u00e9e tradition, for example, a fruity blend of two-thirds Pinot Noir, one-third Chardonnay, and the cuv\u00e9e prestige, aged for four years and therefore even richer in taste.Ren\u00e9 takes a good measure of each wine before he lets us taste it, no doubt checking that it is perfect. Conversation bubbles, and we glean little gems of insider knowledge. For example, the bubbliness of a champagne has little to do with the wine itself \u2013 it's mostly down to the glass. For maximum fizz, you have to scratch the bottom of the glass with a drill or diamond. The imperfection will release a stream of bubbles. And the best glass from which to drink champagne is neither the tall flute (no room for your nose) nor the wide coupe (which lets the aromas and bubbles escape) but a tulip-shaped glass. Mine is certainly working efficiently, and as Caroline takes us for another wander, the world feels a very mellow, tulip-shaped kind of place.At the Roger Brun house next to the church, the first thing Caroline's brother, Philippe, shows us is some lines painted in his yard. This isn't for visitors' cars, he tells us; it's because each different type of grape is brought to a separate space to await pressing. It is a grape park.He takes us through the pressing room and down into the cellars to see his fermenting ros\u00e9s. Pink champagne glows through transparent glass, and a layer of sediment is clearly visible at the bottom of each bottle. This yeast will be removed, or d\u00e9gorg\u00e9, he explains, by tipping the bottles downwards until the sediment collects in the neck, at which point the very end of the bottle is frozen so that the sediment is caught in an ice cube that will be expelled by the pressure of bubbles in the wine. Hey presto, clear bubbly. Human ingenuity knows no bounds when pleasure is at stake.In the tasting room, Philippe and Caroline crack open a La Pelle extra brut, a powerful champagne made with Pinot Noir grapes from a single section of the vineyard, called La Pelle \u2013 the spade \u2013 because gravediggers used to leave their tools at the edge of the field. Philippe tells us how each type of grape does its magic. Chardonnay fizzes on the back teeth, Pinot Meunier works on the tongue, and Pinot Noir settles on the lips and gives a longer aftertaste.I realise through the ever-thickening bubbly haze that this tour is not only alcoholic but highly educational. At a big champagne house, you will be told all about the brand's noble tradition, and the famous people who have drunk it. Here, you are talking to a man who loads his own grapes into the wine press, who tastes the juice at every stage of the production process and decides when to bottle each champagne. He is not just the organ-grinder; he made the organ.After lunch, which is accompanied by Philippe's easy-to-drink \u2013 very easy-to-drink \u2013 brut r\u00e9serve, we head, slowly but not all that surely, along the road so that Caroline can introduce us to Christian, one of the two brothers who run the Gosset-Brabant house.They work opposite the imposing Bollinger chateau, but are proud of their smallness. Christian explains that he uses no herbicides on his vines and that the grapes are crushed in a hand-controlled press, to make doubly sure that the cuv\u00e9e, the juice from the flesh, is separated out from the more bitter juices obtained around the pips and in the skin. Gosset-Brabant specialises in fruity, Pinot Noir-heavy champagnes, and Christian tastes his own wines with huge relish. \"Peaches,\" he exclaims at his r\u00e9serve grand cru brut, and his ros\u00e9 premier cru reminds him that Ay is the Japanese word for love.At the end of a day of \"tasting\" (that is, non-stop drinking), we all toast this idea heartily, though in the back of my mind is the recollection that A\u00ff also sounds like the French word for \"ouch\".I needn't have worried, though. Champagne is pretty pure stuff, and contains very few sulphates, the chemical that causes wine hangovers. Next morning my head is light and as clear as a bell. My bank balance is also lighter, but I really don't mind. For far less than what I would pay in London for a good but anonymous household-name champagne, I have stocked up with bottles that I feel I know personally. I have selected them for their own characteristic taste. Hell, I could practically point out on a map where each grape was grown. And I know exactly where each bubble is going, too. Cheers!\u2022 Stephen Clarke's latest novel, Dial M for Merde, is out now, published by Bantam PressThe champagne houses \u2022 Goutorbe, 9 rue Jeanson, A\u00ff (00 33 326 552170; www.champagne-henri-goutorbe.com). Cuv\u00e9e Tradition \u00a312.58, Cuv\u00e9e Prestige \u00a313.71 (sample prices per bottle). \u2022 Roger Brun, 10 rue St Vincent, A\u00ff (00 33 326 554550; www.champagne-roger-brun.com). La Pelle Extra Brut 2002 \u00a324.40, Brut R\u00e9serve \u00a311.78. Also offers B&B at about \u00a350 for a double room.\u2022 Gosset-Brabant, 23 bd Mal de Lattre de Tassigny, A\u00ff (00 33 326 551742; email gosset-brabant@wanadoo.fr). R\u00e9serve Grand Cru brut \u00a316.92, Ros\u00e9 Premier Cru \u00a316.41.While you are legally allowed to bring in as much wine from other EU countries as you want for personal use, more than 120 bottles could mean a few uncomfortable questions at Customs.The tour \u2022 Stephen Clarke travelled with Arblaster & Clarke Wine Tours (01730 263111; www.winetours.co.uk). Its champagne self-drive weekend costs from \u00a3199, and includes two nights in a family-run B&B, a tasting on the first evening, village tour on day two with three tastings and lunch and the option to visit Reims or Epernay on day three. Upgrading to the three-star Hotel Castel Jeanson, a manor house with indoor pool costs from \u00a390. \u2022 A\u00ff is is about 185 miles from Calais and the trip takes around three hours by car. Alternatively, travel by train to Epernay (about four-and-a-half hours from London St Pancras on Eurostar, from \u00a379 return; 08705 186186; www.eurostar.com) and then a taxi, which will take less than 10 minutes to reach A\u00ff.Vintage champagne is not necessarily the best - it just means that it comes from one particular year. Non-vintage can be preferable, because many winemakers prefer to blend two years to give a better flavour, and only create a single-year champagne - also known as a mill\u00e9sime - if it's a particularly good one.Extra brut means no sugar has been added. Brut is dry, with up to 12g of sugar per litre. Extra dry is actually not dry at all, with up to 18g of sugar per litre and demi sec can contain a syrupy 35g. Cru means village or vineyard. The best vineyards are classed grand cru because of their sunlit, well-drained positions. A premier cru is almost as good. If neither is on the label, it's from a basic champagne vineyard. Cuv\u00e9e is the first pressing, giving the best juice from the flesh of the grape. Premi\u00e8re taille is in fact the second pressing. Blanc de blancs means wine made from white (green) grapes. A blanc de noirs is white wine made from black grapes.Some producers will include the words 'traces of egg' on bottles destined for the UK. Egg white is put into fermented grape juice to force the biggest sediment to settle.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Wine", "Life and style"], "title": "Stephen Clarke heads on into Champagne to seek out bargains straight from the cellars"},{"date": "2008-11-20T09:06:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "Air France-KLM, Europe's biggest airline, today accentuated the precarious state of the European economy by reporting a 96% plunge in second quarter net earnings to just \u20ac28m (\u00a323.6m).It delivered an effective profits warning by admitting that its target of \u20ac1bn in operating earnings this year would be \"very difficult\" to achieve - though it would clearly be in profit.The airline saw first-half sales rise 4.4% to \u20ac13bn, with operating earnings at \u20ac639m despite a 35% rise in fuel prices during the period. Jean-Cyril Spinetta, chief executive, indicated the group would take out a further \u20ac260m of costs.Its relative woes come as chemicals group BASF has said it will slash production and car-makers are temporarily shutting down plants and preparing for a 30-hour week for production workers.EU governments are being urged to adopt stimulus packages worth 1% of GDP or a collective \u20ac130bn to help pull their economies out of prolonged recession but analysts say this is too little.", "tags": ["Airline industry", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Air France-KLM profits plunge 96%"},{"date": "2008-12-06T00:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "To witness a startling mix of giant faces, floating bodies, urban landscapes, oceans and sunrises projected on to one of the city's most famous buildings. Dans la nuit, des images (Dec 18-31, lefresnoy.net/GP2008), a title worthy of black polo necks and Gitanes, will see videos, images and installations decorating the nave and facade of the Grand Palais. Marking the end of France's 2008 EU presidency - who knew? - it will include works from member states and top-name artists such as Thierry Kuntze, and Mihai Grecu. Eurostar to Paris from \u00a359 return (eurostar.com). It has to be an arty hotel, and they don't come much artier than the new Apostrophe (00 33 1 56 54 31 31, apostrophe-hotel.com) with doubles from \u20ac220. It has funky murals, carpets printed with pictures of the original tiled floors and photos of outside views printed on the curtains, which is either brilliant or slightly confusing. Montmartre's La Mascotte (+1 46 06 28 15, la-mascotte-montmartre.com) a brasserie since 1889.", "tags": ["Paris holidays", "France", "Travel", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "City breaks", "Europe"], "title": "Flying visit: Paris, France"},{"date": "2009-01-28T17:25:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Hometown: Gothenburg, Sweden.The lineup: Joel, Henrik.The background: It's funny that there should have been a feature this morning on perfect pop because the matter has been brought to the table by today's new band. Perfect pop comes in many guises. Many hear it in the scruffy surges of the Strokes, the bubblegum punk of Buzzcocks or blitzkrieg bop of the Ramones, while others see the words \"perfect\" and \"pop\" and assume an allusion to the shiny and clean, non-abrasive and sweet, like Sugababes' ear candy or the polished R&B of Rihanna. For some, a perfect pop song must have guitars and gruff (male) voices while for others it must be delivered via keyboards and computers and the airy sigh of a creature of no fixed sex.Air France, two studio hounds plus a fluid lineup of players and singers, come from Sweden, the home of a certain type of perfect pop. Like fellow countrymen (and women) Club 8, Jens Lekman, the Tough Alliance, El Perro Del Mar and NBOTD favourites Studio, they use samples and sequenced beats to create a music that has been described as \"post-rave bliss\", \"beach foam pop\" and \"Balearic disco\". But with its dance pulse, deodorised female vocals, and classic mix of urgent rhythms and melancholy melodies it bears echoes of groups from all over the world, particularly Avalanches and the Go! Team, the pioneers of forlorn girl-group house-pop St Etienne, and the godfathers of pristine disco ennui New Order circa their greatest album Technique.Talking of superlatives and accolades, Air France's debut album, No Way Down, released as it was in the States last year, came in at No 14 in Pitchfork's Best Albums of 2008 list, ahead of Hot Chip, Santogold, Kanye West and Lykke Li, with the single Collapsing At Your Doorstep being voted at No 8 in their Critics' Poll and No 10 in their Readers' Poll. All well deserved: No Way Down, clocking at just 36 minutes and only a bit longer than one song by the otherwise similar-sounding Studio, features the sort of cleverly constructed (the Air France boys claim to be ex-Situationists), superbly produced music whose notional immaculacy doesn't always translate into record sales. Air France do everything right: the pulsing strings, layered synths, pounding house piano, popping basslines, chirpy horn bursts, breathy voices, sampled shouts, wildlife sounds, congas, woodwinds, harp glissandos and guitar filigrees are all exquisitely deployed and arranged. And yet, for whatever reasons, this brand of perfect pop is doomed to remain popular only in theory; an abstract concept, a wistful dream.The buzz: \"Their debut album is a work of widescreen bliss, a collage of clubby basslines, kids' voices, disco strings, marimbas, and the occasional whinnying horse. But for every jubilant melody, there's a dose of melancholy.\"The truth: They'll make you long for the beach while they long to see their lovely music in the charts.Most likely to: Make you cry while you dance.Least likely to: Make you want to do the conga.What to buy: The album No Way Down is released by Something In Construction on 23 March.File next to: New Order, St Etienne, Avalanches, Club 8.Links: www.myspace.com/theairfranceTomorrow's new band: The Soft Pack.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dance music"], "title": "New band of the day \u2013 No 473: Air France"},{"date": "2009-01-28T17:25:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Hometown: Gothenburg, Sweden.The lineup: Joel, Henrik.The background: It's funny that there should have been a feature this morning on perfect pop because the matter has been brought to the table by today's new band. Perfect pop comes in many guises. Many hear it in the scruffy surges of the Strokes, the bubblegum punk of Buzzcocks or blitzkrieg bop of the Ramones, while others see the words \"perfect\" and \"pop\" and assume an allusion to the shiny and clean, non-abrasive and sweet, like Sugababes' ear candy or the polished R&B of Rihanna. For some, a perfect pop song must have guitars and gruff (male) voices while for others it must be delivered via keyboards and computers and the airy sigh of a creature of no fixed sex.Air France, two studio hounds plus a fluid lineup of players and singers, come from Sweden, the home of a certain type of perfect pop. Like fellow countrymen (and women) Club 8, Jens Lekman, the Tough Alliance, El Perro Del Mar and NBOTD favourites Studio, they use samples and sequenced beats to create a music that has been described as \"post-rave bliss\", \"beach foam pop\" and \"Balearic disco\". But with its dance pulse, deodorised female vocals, and classic mix of urgent rhythms and melancholy melodies it bears echoes of groups from all over the world, particularly Avalanches and the Go! Team, the pioneers of forlorn girl-group house-pop St Etienne, and the godfathers of pristine disco ennui New Order circa their greatest album Technique.Talking of superlatives and accolades, Air France's debut album, No Way Down, released as it was in the States last year, came in at No 14 in Pitchfork's Best Albums of 2008 list, ahead of Hot Chip, Santogold, Kanye West and Lykke Li, with the single Collapsing At Your Doorstep being voted at No 8 in their Critics' Poll and No 10 in their Readers' Poll. All well deserved: No Way Down, clocking at just 36 minutes and only a bit longer than one song by the otherwise similar-sounding Studio, features the sort of cleverly constructed (the Air France boys claim to be ex-Situationists), superbly produced music whose notional immaculacy doesn't always translate into record sales. Air France do everything right: the pulsing strings, layered synths, pounding house piano, popping basslines, chirpy horn bursts, breathy voices, sampled shouts, wildlife sounds, congas, woodwinds, harp glissandos and guitar filigrees are all exquisitely deployed and arranged. And yet, for whatever reasons, this brand of perfect pop is doomed to remain popular only in theory; an abstract concept, a wistful dream.The buzz: \"Their debut album is a work of widescreen bliss, a collage of clubby basslines, kids' voices, disco strings, marimbas, and the occasional whinnying horse. But for every jubilant melody, there's a dose of melancholy.\"The truth: They'll make you long for the beach while they long to see their lovely music in the charts.Most likely to: Make you cry while you dance.Least likely to: Make you want to do the conga.What to buy: The album No Way Down is released by Something In Construction on 23 March.File next to: New Order, St Etienne, Avalanches, Club 8.Links: www.myspace.com/theairfranceTomorrow's new band: The Soft Pack.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dance music"], "title": "New band of the day \u2013 No 473: Air France"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:40:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Blame it on the Bastille. Though the storming of the Paris prison on July 14, 1789 was really quite a minor affair, with just seven prisoners inside to be freed, it not only gave the French a national holiday but also set a pattern of street protests that wends its way through history to today's \"Black Thursday\". Initial reports suggest that the effects of the latest protest against the Sarkozy administration have been somewhat less than the forecast of national paralysis had indicated. No matter, the French have taken to the streets again to exercise their time-honoured right of seeking to stop an elected government putting into practice policies which were approved by a majority of voters. Taking to the streets and going on strike is much more fulfilling than waiting for the next round of elections or forming a coherent opposition.French friends have told me over the years that we British lack the proper enthusiasm needed to take matters into our own hands to show what we think of those we chose to rule us. As Agnes Poirier wrote on Cif of early strikes against the Sarkozy administration at the end of 2007: \"After all, we like demonstrating. For us, it's like a jog in the park: refreshing and energising.\" The fact that the finance minister reckoned that particular strike was costing the country \u20ac300m a day at a time when economic clouds were already gathering was of little import. When I quibbled about the merits of a strike and demonstrations to preserve the right of booking clerks on the railway system to retire early, a French relative lectured me about the importance of the Republican tradition stretching back to 1789.I know, from past experience, that if I appear at all critical of the way things are done in France, I am likely to receive a stream of postings pointing out how much better French health service/schools/trains work than those in Britain, and, after yesterday's IMF report, drawing attention to the fact that the UK is forecast to do even worse than France economically this year. So may I get in a pre-emotive plea that, in musing on France, I am in no way defending the leader who said he had saved the world (or at least the banks) just before we went through another avalanche of bad news?My problem with the French way of strikes and street protests is that they reflect a democratic deficit which has run through the country's history since 1789. The revolution took the nation through the terror to the first modern military dictatorship under Napoleon. Then there was the restoration, and a relatively liberal burst under Louis Philippe which was carefully controlled as the years went by and favoured the bourgeois establishment. The revolution of 1848 led to Napoleon III, a man with some good ideas who ran an increasingly oligopolistic regime. When he fell in 1870, the Third Republic was proclaimed as the bearer of modernity to the French people, but it evolved into a system controlled by an elite whose members swopped jobs in a series of revolving-door governments, and who mouthed a progressive rhetoric but presided over an unequal society. The popular front of 1936 was soon brought down by economics. The regime's collapse amid the debacle of 1940 was not only the result of military incompetence but also stemmed from the fact that most of the population could see no reason to preserve it. It had withheld votes from women for fear that they would back reactionary religious parties and ended by voting power to an 84-year-old old soldier with a limited attention span and a dedication to old values.After the liberation of 1944, the politicians got rid of Charles de Gaulle and went back to the small circle government of the past, in which the same class remained in power despite the disasters in Indochina and Algeria. De Gaulle's assumption of power in 1958 was a coup in everything but name. He had been in favour of a strong, even authoritarian, central executive and contemptuous of parliamentary politicians ever since his jottings as a German prisoner in the first world war, but he managed to combine this with a respect for democracy that saw him stepping down when he lost a referendum in 1969. As for the riots and strikes of 1968, one might note that, despite their social and cultural impact, the first had little positive political resonance \u2013 the ensuing elections returned a big conservative majority \u2013 while the work stoppages were carefully controlled by the Communist party and called off when the government came up with the cash. Since then, France has been looking for somebody who can make the Fifth Republic work as well as its founder did in its first nine or ten years. For all his vim and vigour, Sarkozy does not fit the presidential robes designed by De Gaulle. In part, this is a function of changing times. But it is also a matter of political psychology. Though he could be as partisan as anybody, De Gaulle proclaimed a myth of national unity behind him. He liked to tower above the fray. Sarkozy is down there brawling with his opponents; that is how he got to the top, after all.This, naturally, draws a populist reaction such as we see with today's strikes and marches. The rejectionist front reinforces itself as it stretches from intellectuals to the hallowed ranks of the train drivers. Parliament is seen as irrelevant. The failure of the left at the last presidential elections has been compounded by the subsequent comic opera jousting for the leadership of the Socialist party. The result is a continuing disdain for the legislature and for the electoral process.In the past, some governments have retreated in the face of protests, mainly from the left but also, as in the defence of Catholic schools in the 1980s, from other parts of the political spectrum. Sarkozy says, of course, that he will not change course. His smoother prime minister, Fran\u00e7ois Fillon, delivered a convincing argument on television the other night explaining the effects of economic downturn on the country. But both men have shown considerable skill at trimming their sails in negotiations with unions and professional bodies. They may hope that the mobilisation will be relatively low and that French people are growing more placid and less intent on getting immediate results without waiting out the long period between elections. However, they are confronting not only today's protests but also tradition stretching back for more than two centuries. Is France really ready to become more British?", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Jonathan Fenby: Perhaps it's time to re-evaluate the French love of strikes"},{"date": "2009-01-28T17:25:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Hometown: Gothenburg, Sweden.The lineup: Joel, Henrik.The background: It's funny that there should have been a feature this morning on perfect pop because the matter has been brought to the table by today's new band. Perfect pop comes in many guises. Many hear it in the scruffy surges of the Strokes, the bubblegum punk of Buzzcocks or blitzkrieg bop of the Ramones, while others see the words \"perfect\" and \"pop\" and assume an allusion to the shiny and clean, non-abrasive and sweet, like Sugababes' ear candy or the polished R&B of Rihanna. For some, a perfect pop song must have guitars and gruff (male) voices while for others it must be delivered via keyboards and computers and the airy sigh of a creature of no fixed sex.Air France, two studio hounds plus a fluid lineup of players and singers, come from Sweden, the home of a certain type of perfect pop. Like fellow countrymen (and women) Club 8, Jens Lekman, the Tough Alliance, El Perro Del Mar and NBOTD favourites Studio, they use samples and sequenced beats to create a music that has been described as \"post-rave bliss\", \"beach foam pop\" and \"Balearic disco\". But with its dance pulse, deodorised female vocals, and classic mix of urgent rhythms and melancholy melodies it bears echoes of groups from all over the world, particularly Avalanches and the Go! Team, the pioneers of forlorn girl-group house-pop St Etienne, and the godfathers of pristine disco ennui New Order circa their greatest album Technique.Talking of superlatives and accolades, Air France's debut album, No Way Down, released as it was in the States last year, came in at No 14 in Pitchfork's Best Albums of 2008 list, ahead of Hot Chip, Santogold, Kanye West and Lykke Li, with the single Collapsing At Your Doorstep being voted at No 8 in their Critics' Poll and No 10 in their Readers' Poll. All well deserved: No Way Down, clocking at just 36 minutes and only a bit longer than one song by the otherwise similar-sounding Studio, features the sort of cleverly constructed (the Air France boys claim to be ex-Situationists), superbly produced music whose notional immaculacy doesn't always translate into record sales. Air France do everything right: the pulsing strings, layered synths, pounding house piano, popping basslines, chirpy horn bursts, breathy voices, sampled shouts, wildlife sounds, congas, woodwinds, harp glissandos and guitar filigrees are all exquisitely deployed and arranged. And yet, for whatever reasons, this brand of perfect pop is doomed to remain popular only in theory; an abstract concept, a wistful dream.The buzz: \"Their debut album is a work of widescreen bliss, a collage of clubby basslines, kids' voices, disco strings, marimbas, and the occasional whinnying horse. But for every jubilant melody, there's a dose of melancholy.\"The truth: They'll make you long for the beach while they long to see their lovely music in the charts.Most likely to: Make you cry while you dance.Least likely to: Make you want to do the conga.What to buy: The album No Way Down is released by Something In Construction on 23 March.File next to: New Order, St Etienne, Avalanches, Club 8.Links: www.myspace.com/theairfranceTomorrow's new band: The Soft Pack.", "tags": ["Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Dance music"], "title": "New band of the day \u2013 No 473: Air France"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:40:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Blame it on the Bastille. Though the storming of the Paris prison on July 14, 1789 was really quite a minor affair, with just seven prisoners inside to be freed, it not only gave the French a national holiday but also set a pattern of street protests that wends its way through history to today's \"Black Thursday\". Initial reports suggest that the effects of the latest protest against the Sarkozy administration have been somewhat less than the forecast of national paralysis had indicated. No matter, the French have taken to the streets again to exercise their time-honoured right of seeking to stop an elected government putting into practice policies which were approved by a majority of voters. Taking to the streets and going on strike is much more fulfilling than waiting for the next round of elections or forming a coherent opposition.French friends have told me over the years that we British lack the proper enthusiasm needed to take matters into our own hands to show what we think of those we chose to rule us. As Agnes Poirier wrote on Cif of early strikes against the Sarkozy administration at the end of 2007: \"After all, we like demonstrating. For us, it's like a jog in the park: refreshing and energising.\" The fact that the finance minister reckoned that particular strike was costing the country \u20ac300m a day at a time when economic clouds were already gathering was of little import. When I quibbled about the merits of a strike and demonstrations to preserve the right of booking clerks on the railway system to retire early, a French relative lectured me about the importance of the Republican tradition stretching back to 1789.I know, from past experience, that if I appear at all critical of the way things are done in France, I am likely to receive a stream of postings pointing out how much better French health service/schools/trains work than those in Britain, and, after yesterday's IMF report, drawing attention to the fact that the UK is forecast to do even worse than France economically this year. So may I get in a pre-emotive plea that, in musing on France, I am in no way defending the leader who said he had saved the world (or at least the banks) just before we went through another avalanche of bad news?My problem with the French way of strikes and street protests is that they reflect a democratic deficit which has run through the country's history since 1789. The revolution took the nation through the terror to the first modern military dictatorship under Napoleon. Then there was the restoration, and a relatively liberal burst under Louis Philippe which was carefully controlled as the years went by and favoured the bourgeois establishment. The revolution of 1848 led to Napoleon III, a man with some good ideas who ran an increasingly oligopolistic regime. When he fell in 1870, the Third Republic was proclaimed as the bearer of modernity to the French people, but it evolved into a system controlled by an elite whose members swopped jobs in a series of revolving-door governments, and who mouthed a progressive rhetoric but presided over an unequal society. The popular front of 1936 was soon brought down by economics. The regime's collapse amid the debacle of 1940 was not only the result of military incompetence but also stemmed from the fact that most of the population could see no reason to preserve it. It had withheld votes from women for fear that they would back reactionary religious parties and ended by voting power to an 84-year-old old soldier with a limited attention span and a dedication to old values.After the liberation of 1944, the politicians got rid of Charles de Gaulle and went back to the small circle government of the past, in which the same class remained in power despite the disasters in Indochina and Algeria. De Gaulle's assumption of power in 1958 was a coup in everything but name. He had been in favour of a strong, even authoritarian, central executive and contemptuous of parliamentary politicians ever since his jottings as a German prisoner in the first world war, but he managed to combine this with a respect for democracy that saw him stepping down when he lost a referendum in 1969. As for the riots and strikes of 1968, one might note that, despite their social and cultural impact, the first had little positive political resonance \u2013 the ensuing elections returned a big conservative majority \u2013 while the work stoppages were carefully controlled by the Communist party and called off when the government came up with the cash. Since then, France has been looking for somebody who can make the Fifth Republic work as well as its founder did in its first nine or ten years. For all his vim and vigour, Sarkozy does not fit the presidential robes designed by De Gaulle. In part, this is a function of changing times. But it is also a matter of political psychology. Though he could be as partisan as anybody, De Gaulle proclaimed a myth of national unity behind him. He liked to tower above the fray. Sarkozy is down there brawling with his opponents; that is how he got to the top, after all.This, naturally, draws a populist reaction such as we see with today's strikes and marches. The rejectionist front reinforces itself as it stretches from intellectuals to the hallowed ranks of the train drivers. Parliament is seen as irrelevant. The failure of the left at the last presidential elections has been compounded by the subsequent comic opera jousting for the leadership of the Socialist party. The result is a continuing disdain for the legislature and for the electoral process.In the past, some governments have retreated in the face of protests, mainly from the left but also, as in the defence of Catholic schools in the 1980s, from other parts of the political spectrum. Sarkozy says, of course, that he will not change course. His smoother prime minister, Fran\u00e7ois Fillon, delivered a convincing argument on television the other night explaining the effects of economic downturn on the country. But both men have shown considerable skill at trimming their sails in negotiations with unions and professional bodies. They may hope that the mobilisation will be relatively low and that French people are growing more placid and less intent on getting immediate results without waiting out the long period between elections. However, they are confronting not only today's protests but also tradition stretching back for more than two centuries. Is France really ready to become more British?", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Jonathan Fenby: Perhaps it's time to re-evaluate the French love of strikes"},{"date": "2009-03-10T20:59:21Z", "country": "france", "content": "EU finance ministers today gave the go-ahead for France to slash the cost of restaurant meals via a cut in VAT to 5.5% in a move to boost consumer confidence and spending as the European economy faces its worst slump for 80 years.The decision to allow reduced VAT for a range of services ended 10 years of stalemate. It came as Axel Weber, Bundesbank president and a European Central Bank hawk, called for eurozone interest rates to be cut further, to 1%, and an Italian colleague held out the prospect of zero borrowing costs.Yesterday's meeting of ministers, disrupted when Greenpeace activists chained themselves to the doors of the council of ministers' building, took place as internal documents pointed to a darkening and hugely unstable outlook, with no prospect of recovery before 2010.The breakthrough on reduced VAT came after German finance minister Peer Steinbr\u00fcck lifted his long-standing resistance to suggestions raised by French president Nicolas Sarkozy and his predecessor, Jacques Chirac. Rules allowing limited VAT cuts for services ranging from hairdressing to DIY were due to run out in 2010.Steinbr\u00fcck, a fierce critic of Britain's overall VAT cut to 15%, said he was \"trying to be helpful \u2026 to a very, very limited extent\", while aides to Alistair Darling welcomed the move. Britain levies a 5% rate on some services and goods.The chancellor also welcomed the go-ahead for the UK to extend its use of \"reverse charging\" on the sales tax for a further two years in the battle against VAT fraud.This mechanism, designed to stamp out \"carousel\" fraud by traders claiming but never paying the tax, means that it is levied only at the final stage of a transaction. The fraud costs the exchequer billions of pounds a year.Finance ministers also endorsed the option of charging lower VAT on \"green\" goods and services as a way of promoting a more sustainable economy and fighting climate change. But NGO campaigners on development issues assailed them for failing to alleviate the financial problems of poorer countries in trying to \"decarbonise\" their ailing economies.Weber, meanwhile, made plain that the ECB, which cut rates last week to 1.5%, had room for manoeuvre to cut them again to 1% but rejected the notion of zero rates. The eurozone central bank cut its forecast to a 2.7% economic contraction this year and zero growth in 2010.He said in Frankfurt: \"We now expect that the banks will hand over these favourable conditions quickly and clearly to consumers and companies.\" But Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, a member of the ECB's board, said zero rates could be required if the economic horizon darkened even further.Steinbr\u00fcck, insisting that no eurozone member faced payment difficulties or the risk of default, rejected calls from within the Obama administration for even greater stimulus programmes and further injections of capital into IMF reserves.As Romania confirmed it was seeking EU and IMF aid of about $20bn to help it out of a growing financial crisis, ministers rejected calls for increased support for eastern European members of the bloc.", "tags": ["Business", "European Union", "France", "Europe"], "title": "Frances cuts VAT on restaurant meals"},{"date": "2009-06-26T20:19:32Z", "country": "france", "content": "France's history of republicanism and anti-clericalism goes back to the revolution of 1789. The secular republic fiercely protects the rigid separation of the state from organised religion, established in 1905.In 2004, after a heated national debate, a law reasserted France's cherished religious neutrality in public schools, banning the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols in state schools \u2013 including Muslim headscarves, Jewish caps and Sikh turbans.French civil servants and public sector staff cannot wear religious symbols while working in state offices.But there is no law preventing headscarves or religious symbols being worn by members of the public in public spaces.The current debate over whether to ban full Islamic veils from being worn in public places intensified after Barack Obama's recent Middle East speech hit a raw nerve in France. He said it was \"important for western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practising religion as they see fit \u2013 for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear\". This was seen by some politicians as a jibe at France.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Secular separation in France"},{"date": "2009-06-26T20:19:32Z", "country": "france", "content": "France's history of republicanism and anti-clericalism goes back to the revolution of 1789. The secular republic fiercely protects the rigid separation of the state from organised religion, established in 1905.In 2004, after a heated national debate, a law reasserted France's cherished religious neutrality in public schools, banning the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols in state schools \u2013 including Muslim headscarves, Jewish caps and Sikh turbans.French civil servants and public sector staff cannot wear religious symbols while working in state offices.But there is no law preventing headscarves or religious symbols being worn by members of the public in public spaces.The current debate over whether to ban full Islamic veils from being worn in public places intensified after Barack Obama's recent Middle East speech hit a raw nerve in France. He said it was \"important for western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practising religion as they see fit \u2013 for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear\". This was seen by some politicians as a jibe at France.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Secular separation in France"},{"date": "2009-05-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "When the former prime minister Dominique de Villepin warned that there was a risk of revolution in France, it was not just because he wanted to make life difficult for his arch-rival Nicolas Sarkozy. It was also because social unrest is genuinely on the rise. Yesterday thousands of protesters took to the streets - not as many as the millions who protested in March, but this was a respectable turnout, considering that it was the third national protest at the government's handling of the global downturn in four months.They are not just marching: universities have ground to a halt for three months over attempts to rewrite the terms of employment contracts for lecturers. There has been a wave of \"bossnappings\", where chief executives arriving at plants to announce layoffs found themselves barred from leaving. There have been commando-style \"picnics\" in supermarkets, where people feast from shelves shouting \"we will not pay for your crisis\". The protests are local and apparently spontaneous. Union officials find themselves not so much leading the action as trying to head it off. In five out of seven cases, bossnapping was used against foreign-owned companies (Sony, Caterpillar, 3M) which are reputed to be more cavalier about laying off workers than their French counterparts. Nor are strikes mere stunts. They represent a widespread feeling that if the president can pay billions to preserve the boss class, and their shares, he should do the same to protect workers. Popular outrage at the banking bailout may be similiar around the world, but it finds different forms of expression. Barack Obama may have told AIG bosses that the White House was the only thing standing between them and the pitchforks. But in France the feeling is that the pitchforks are not just metaphorical.International comparisons are deceptive, but on paper there is no glaring reason why the outrage in France should be so much more acute. The public deficit is high, but little more than half of Britain's. Nor is unemployment so much higher, although it is climbing faster. France entered the global turndown later than Britain, and fewer banks were in trouble. Social protection, although under attack, is still substantially more generous than in Britain.The big picture, however, masks structural problems. France has one of the highest rates of youth unemployment in the developed world, with about one quarter of its 2.5 million unemployed under the age of 25. The truth is that no government in Europe has the luxury of treating French, German or Greek social unrest as a spectator sport. The breakdown in the social compact, the gulf between promise and delivery, should concern everyone.", "tags": ["France", "Global economy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Business", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: May Day warning in France"},{"date": "2009-06-26T20:19:32Z", "country": "france", "content": "France's history of republicanism and anti-clericalism goes back to the revolution of 1789. The secular republic fiercely protects the rigid separation of the state from organised religion, established in 1905.In 2004, after a heated national debate, a law reasserted France's cherished religious neutrality in public schools, banning the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols in state schools \u2013 including Muslim headscarves, Jewish caps and Sikh turbans.French civil servants and public sector staff cannot wear religious symbols while working in state offices.But there is no law preventing headscarves or religious symbols being worn by members of the public in public spaces.The current debate over whether to ban full Islamic veils from being worn in public places intensified after Barack Obama's recent Middle East speech hit a raw nerve in France. He said it was \"important for western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practising religion as they see fit \u2013 for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear\". This was seen by some politicians as a jibe at France.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Secular separation in France"},{"date": "2009-05-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "When the former prime minister Dominique de Villepin warned that there was a risk of revolution in France, it was not just because he wanted to make life difficult for his arch-rival Nicolas Sarkozy. It was also because social unrest is genuinely on the rise. Yesterday thousands of protesters took to the streets - not as many as the millions who protested in March, but this was a respectable turnout, considering that it was the third national protest at the government's handling of the global downturn in four months.They are not just marching: universities have ground to a halt for three months over attempts to rewrite the terms of employment contracts for lecturers. There has been a wave of \"bossnappings\", where chief executives arriving at plants to announce layoffs found themselves barred from leaving. There have been commando-style \"picnics\" in supermarkets, where people feast from shelves shouting \"we will not pay for your crisis\". The protests are local and apparently spontaneous. Union officials find themselves not so much leading the action as trying to head it off. In five out of seven cases, bossnapping was used against foreign-owned companies (Sony, Caterpillar, 3M) which are reputed to be more cavalier about laying off workers than their French counterparts. Nor are strikes mere stunts. They represent a widespread feeling that if the president can pay billions to preserve the boss class, and their shares, he should do the same to protect workers. Popular outrage at the banking bailout may be similiar around the world, but it finds different forms of expression. Barack Obama may have told AIG bosses that the White House was the only thing standing between them and the pitchforks. But in France the feeling is that the pitchforks are not just metaphorical.International comparisons are deceptive, but on paper there is no glaring reason why the outrage in France should be so much more acute. The public deficit is high, but little more than half of Britain's. Nor is unemployment so much higher, although it is climbing faster. France entered the global turndown later than Britain, and fewer banks were in trouble. Social protection, although under attack, is still substantially more generous than in Britain.The big picture, however, masks structural problems. France has one of the highest rates of youth unemployment in the developed world, with about one quarter of its 2.5 million unemployed under the age of 25. The truth is that no government in Europe has the luxury of treating French, German or Greek social unrest as a spectator sport. The breakdown in the social compact, the gulf between promise and delivery, should concern everyone.", "tags": ["France", "Global economy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Business", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: May Day warning in France"},{"date": "2009-04-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Bistrot les Quatre Chats8 rue d'Orl\u00e9ans, 14360 Trouville-sur-Mer (0033 231 889 494)The menu changes daily and the food isn't classically French. A favourite of A-listers at the Deauville Film Festival.Benoit20 rue St Martin, 75004 Paris (0033 142 722 576)First opened in 1912, Benoit is now owned by Alain Ducasse. The head chef cooks classic bistro cuisine and they make their own p\u00e2t\u00e9s and tarts.Restaurant Astier44 rue Jean-Pierre Timbaud 75011 Paris (0033 143 571 635)An unfussy neighbourhood bistro, off the tourist trail, and famous for its cheese board.La BergerieLe Cloudit, 38114 Villard Reculas (0033 476 803 683)Family-run bistro with amazing mountain views and hearty Alpine food.Brasserie des Brotteaux1 place Jules Ferry, 69006 Lyon (0033 472 740 398)A beautiful and fashionable restaurant, with a beautiful and fashionable clientele, serving simple food in excellent sauces.L'Avant Port8 quai Daniel Rivaille, 17410 Saint Martin de R\u00e9 (0033 546 680 668)The food is cooked \u00e0 la plancha - on an oiled steel plate, which retains the freshness of the fish caught that day.La Cabane du FierLe Martray, 17590 Ars en R\u00e9 (0033 546 296 484). Open 1 May - 31 OctoberAn oyster farmer's cabin with a quirky bistro attached, this is the place to go for robust seafood with an incredible view out across the oyster flats.La Tupina6 Rue Porte de la Monnaie, 33800 Bordeaux (0033 556 915 637)A famed and traditional bistro where many dishes are cooked over the fire. Domaine de BlancardyMoules et Baucels (H\u00e9rault), 34190 Ganges (0033 467 739 494)Owner Laure Martial regularly wins awards for her wild boar, duck and rabbit. La CollineRoute des Cr\u00eates, 83230 Bormes les Mimosas (0033 494 648 287)A secret retreat hidden at the end of a track. Try Josette Olivier's speciality: goat cooked in white wine. Le Bistrot du Paradou57 avenue Vall\u00e9e des Baux, 13520 Paradou (0033 490 543 270)This relaxed brasserie serves a delicious set lunch - which changes daily according to what the owner's wife wants to cook. La Meranda4 rue Raoul Bosio, 06000 Nice (no telephone)Rustic peasant Ni\u00e7oise food at its best - get there early as there are no reservations and it's rightly popular.", "tags": ["Restaurants", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "The best bistros in France"},{"date": "2009-06-26T20:19:32Z", "country": "france", "content": "France's history of republicanism and anti-clericalism goes back to the revolution of 1789. The secular republic fiercely protects the rigid separation of the state from organised religion, established in 1905.In 2004, after a heated national debate, a law reasserted France's cherished religious neutrality in public schools, banning the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols in state schools \u2013 including Muslim headscarves, Jewish caps and Sikh turbans.French civil servants and public sector staff cannot wear religious symbols while working in state offices.But there is no law preventing headscarves or religious symbols being worn by members of the public in public spaces.The current debate over whether to ban full Islamic veils from being worn in public places intensified after Barack Obama's recent Middle East speech hit a raw nerve in France. He said it was \"important for western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practising religion as they see fit \u2013 for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear\". This was seen by some politicians as a jibe at France.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Secular separation in France"},{"date": "2009-05-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "When the former prime minister Dominique de Villepin warned that there was a risk of revolution in France, it was not just because he wanted to make life difficult for his arch-rival Nicolas Sarkozy. It was also because social unrest is genuinely on the rise. Yesterday thousands of protesters took to the streets - not as many as the millions who protested in March, but this was a respectable turnout, considering that it was the third national protest at the government's handling of the global downturn in four months.They are not just marching: universities have ground to a halt for three months over attempts to rewrite the terms of employment contracts for lecturers. There has been a wave of \"bossnappings\", where chief executives arriving at plants to announce layoffs found themselves barred from leaving. There have been commando-style \"picnics\" in supermarkets, where people feast from shelves shouting \"we will not pay for your crisis\". The protests are local and apparently spontaneous. Union officials find themselves not so much leading the action as trying to head it off. In five out of seven cases, bossnapping was used against foreign-owned companies (Sony, Caterpillar, 3M) which are reputed to be more cavalier about laying off workers than their French counterparts. Nor are strikes mere stunts. They represent a widespread feeling that if the president can pay billions to preserve the boss class, and their shares, he should do the same to protect workers. Popular outrage at the banking bailout may be similiar around the world, but it finds different forms of expression. Barack Obama may have told AIG bosses that the White House was the only thing standing between them and the pitchforks. But in France the feeling is that the pitchforks are not just metaphorical.International comparisons are deceptive, but on paper there is no glaring reason why the outrage in France should be so much more acute. The public deficit is high, but little more than half of Britain's. Nor is unemployment so much higher, although it is climbing faster. France entered the global turndown later than Britain, and fewer banks were in trouble. Social protection, although under attack, is still substantially more generous than in Britain.The big picture, however, masks structural problems. France has one of the highest rates of youth unemployment in the developed world, with about one quarter of its 2.5 million unemployed under the age of 25. The truth is that no government in Europe has the luxury of treating French, German or Greek social unrest as a spectator sport. The breakdown in the social compact, the gulf between promise and delivery, should concern everyone.", "tags": ["France", "Global economy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Business", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: May Day warning in France"},{"date": "2009-04-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Bistrot les Quatre Chats8 rue d'Orl\u00e9ans, 14360 Trouville-sur-Mer (0033 231 889 494)The menu changes daily and the food isn't classically French. A favourite of A-listers at the Deauville Film Festival.Benoit20 rue St Martin, 75004 Paris (0033 142 722 576)First opened in 1912, Benoit is now owned by Alain Ducasse. The head chef cooks classic bistro cuisine and they make their own p\u00e2t\u00e9s and tarts.Restaurant Astier44 rue Jean-Pierre Timbaud 75011 Paris (0033 143 571 635)An unfussy neighbourhood bistro, off the tourist trail, and famous for its cheese board.La BergerieLe Cloudit, 38114 Villard Reculas (0033 476 803 683)Family-run bistro with amazing mountain views and hearty Alpine food.Brasserie des Brotteaux1 place Jules Ferry, 69006 Lyon (0033 472 740 398)A beautiful and fashionable restaurant, with a beautiful and fashionable clientele, serving simple food in excellent sauces.L'Avant Port8 quai Daniel Rivaille, 17410 Saint Martin de R\u00e9 (0033 546 680 668)The food is cooked \u00e0 la plancha - on an oiled steel plate, which retains the freshness of the fish caught that day.La Cabane du FierLe Martray, 17590 Ars en R\u00e9 (0033 546 296 484). Open 1 May - 31 OctoberAn oyster farmer's cabin with a quirky bistro attached, this is the place to go for robust seafood with an incredible view out across the oyster flats.La Tupina6 Rue Porte de la Monnaie, 33800 Bordeaux (0033 556 915 637)A famed and traditional bistro where many dishes are cooked over the fire. Domaine de BlancardyMoules et Baucels (H\u00e9rault), 34190 Ganges (0033 467 739 494)Owner Laure Martial regularly wins awards for her wild boar, duck and rabbit. La CollineRoute des Cr\u00eates, 83230 Bormes les Mimosas (0033 494 648 287)A secret retreat hidden at the end of a track. Try Josette Olivier's speciality: goat cooked in white wine. Le Bistrot du Paradou57 avenue Vall\u00e9e des Baux, 13520 Paradou (0033 490 543 270)This relaxed brasserie serves a delicious set lunch - which changes daily according to what the owner's wife wants to cook. La Meranda4 rue Raoul Bosio, 06000 Nice (no telephone)Rustic peasant Ni\u00e7oise food at its best - get there early as there are no reservations and it's rightly popular.", "tags": ["Restaurants", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "The best bistros in France"},{"date": "2009-06-01T12:34:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Sunday 11.03pm BST: Flight AF447, carrying 216 passengers and 12 crew members, leaves Rio de Janeiro on Sunday at 7.03pm local time bound for Paris on a route scheduled to take 11 hours 15 minutes.For the first few hours of its flight the plane would have tracked the Brazilian coast heading north-east.2.33am: Last contact made with missing plane, according to Brazilian air force.2.48am: Plane leaves Brazilian radar, flying normally at an altitude of 35,000ft and at 453kph, according to the country's air force. At last contact, the plane is about 190 miles north-east of the coastal Brazilian city of Natal, near the archipelago of Fernando de Noronha.Planes routinely fly outside land-based radar coverage while crossing the Atlantic.3.14am: Plane sends automated message indicating a failure in an electronic circuit.3.20am: Attempts by Brazilian, Spanish, African and French traffic controllers to contact the plane fail. French military fails to contact the plane.The air force begins a search this morning near Fernando de Noronha. The region is about 1,500 miles north-east of Rio.9.52am: Paris airport official announces the plane is missing.10.10am: Plane fails to arrive at Charles De Gaulle airport.", "tags": ["France", "Brazil", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Air transport", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Timeline: Missing Air France plane"},{"date": "2009-06-26T20:19:32Z", "country": "france", "content": "France's history of republicanism and anti-clericalism goes back to the revolution of 1789. The secular republic fiercely protects the rigid separation of the state from organised religion, established in 1905.In 2004, after a heated national debate, a law reasserted France's cherished religious neutrality in public schools, banning the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols in state schools \u2013 including Muslim headscarves, Jewish caps and Sikh turbans.French civil servants and public sector staff cannot wear religious symbols while working in state offices.But there is no law preventing headscarves or religious symbols being worn by members of the public in public spaces.The current debate over whether to ban full Islamic veils from being worn in public places intensified after Barack Obama's recent Middle East speech hit a raw nerve in France. He said it was \"important for western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practising religion as they see fit \u2013 for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear\". This was seen by some politicians as a jibe at France.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Secular separation in France"},{"date": "2009-05-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "When the former prime minister Dominique de Villepin warned that there was a risk of revolution in France, it was not just because he wanted to make life difficult for his arch-rival Nicolas Sarkozy. It was also because social unrest is genuinely on the rise. Yesterday thousands of protesters took to the streets - not as many as the millions who protested in March, but this was a respectable turnout, considering that it was the third national protest at the government's handling of the global downturn in four months.They are not just marching: universities have ground to a halt for three months over attempts to rewrite the terms of employment contracts for lecturers. There has been a wave of \"bossnappings\", where chief executives arriving at plants to announce layoffs found themselves barred from leaving. There have been commando-style \"picnics\" in supermarkets, where people feast from shelves shouting \"we will not pay for your crisis\". The protests are local and apparently spontaneous. Union officials find themselves not so much leading the action as trying to head it off. In five out of seven cases, bossnapping was used against foreign-owned companies (Sony, Caterpillar, 3M) which are reputed to be more cavalier about laying off workers than their French counterparts. Nor are strikes mere stunts. They represent a widespread feeling that if the president can pay billions to preserve the boss class, and their shares, he should do the same to protect workers. Popular outrage at the banking bailout may be similiar around the world, but it finds different forms of expression. Barack Obama may have told AIG bosses that the White House was the only thing standing between them and the pitchforks. But in France the feeling is that the pitchforks are not just metaphorical.International comparisons are deceptive, but on paper there is no glaring reason why the outrage in France should be so much more acute. The public deficit is high, but little more than half of Britain's. Nor is unemployment so much higher, although it is climbing faster. France entered the global turndown later than Britain, and fewer banks were in trouble. Social protection, although under attack, is still substantially more generous than in Britain.The big picture, however, masks structural problems. France has one of the highest rates of youth unemployment in the developed world, with about one quarter of its 2.5 million unemployed under the age of 25. The truth is that no government in Europe has the luxury of treating French, German or Greek social unrest as a spectator sport. The breakdown in the social compact, the gulf between promise and delivery, should concern everyone.", "tags": ["France", "Global economy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Business", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: May Day warning in France"},{"date": "2009-04-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Bistrot les Quatre Chats8 rue d'Orl\u00e9ans, 14360 Trouville-sur-Mer (0033 231 889 494)The menu changes daily and the food isn't classically French. A favourite of A-listers at the Deauville Film Festival.Benoit20 rue St Martin, 75004 Paris (0033 142 722 576)First opened in 1912, Benoit is now owned by Alain Ducasse. The head chef cooks classic bistro cuisine and they make their own p\u00e2t\u00e9s and tarts.Restaurant Astier44 rue Jean-Pierre Timbaud 75011 Paris (0033 143 571 635)An unfussy neighbourhood bistro, off the tourist trail, and famous for its cheese board.La BergerieLe Cloudit, 38114 Villard Reculas (0033 476 803 683)Family-run bistro with amazing mountain views and hearty Alpine food.Brasserie des Brotteaux1 place Jules Ferry, 69006 Lyon (0033 472 740 398)A beautiful and fashionable restaurant, with a beautiful and fashionable clientele, serving simple food in excellent sauces.L'Avant Port8 quai Daniel Rivaille, 17410 Saint Martin de R\u00e9 (0033 546 680 668)The food is cooked \u00e0 la plancha - on an oiled steel plate, which retains the freshness of the fish caught that day.La Cabane du FierLe Martray, 17590 Ars en R\u00e9 (0033 546 296 484). Open 1 May - 31 OctoberAn oyster farmer's cabin with a quirky bistro attached, this is the place to go for robust seafood with an incredible view out across the oyster flats.La Tupina6 Rue Porte de la Monnaie, 33800 Bordeaux (0033 556 915 637)A famed and traditional bistro where many dishes are cooked over the fire. Domaine de BlancardyMoules et Baucels (H\u00e9rault), 34190 Ganges (0033 467 739 494)Owner Laure Martial regularly wins awards for her wild boar, duck and rabbit. La CollineRoute des Cr\u00eates, 83230 Bormes les Mimosas (0033 494 648 287)A secret retreat hidden at the end of a track. Try Josette Olivier's speciality: goat cooked in white wine. Le Bistrot du Paradou57 avenue Vall\u00e9e des Baux, 13520 Paradou (0033 490 543 270)This relaxed brasserie serves a delicious set lunch - which changes daily according to what the owner's wife wants to cook. La Meranda4 rue Raoul Bosio, 06000 Nice (no telephone)Rustic peasant Ni\u00e7oise food at its best - get there early as there are no reservations and it's rightly popular.", "tags": ["Restaurants", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "The best bistros in France"},{"date": "2009-06-01T12:34:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Sunday 11.03pm BST: Flight AF447, carrying 216 passengers and 12 crew members, leaves Rio de Janeiro on Sunday at 7.03pm local time bound for Paris on a route scheduled to take 11 hours 15 minutes.For the first few hours of its flight the plane would have tracked the Brazilian coast heading north-east.2.33am: Last contact made with missing plane, according to Brazilian air force.2.48am: Plane leaves Brazilian radar, flying normally at an altitude of 35,000ft and at 453kph, according to the country's air force. At last contact, the plane is about 190 miles north-east of the coastal Brazilian city of Natal, near the archipelago of Fernando de Noronha.Planes routinely fly outside land-based radar coverage while crossing the Atlantic.3.14am: Plane sends automated message indicating a failure in an electronic circuit.3.20am: Attempts by Brazilian, Spanish, African and French traffic controllers to contact the plane fail. French military fails to contact the plane.The air force begins a search this morning near Fernando de Noronha. The region is about 1,500 miles north-east of Rio.9.52am: Paris airport official announces the plane is missing.10.10am: Plane fails to arrive at Charles De Gaulle airport.", "tags": ["France", "Brazil", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Air transport", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Timeline: Missing Air France plane"},{"date": "2009-05-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Ochre earth, twisted silvery olive trees, blue skies, red roofs and sunflowers ... Our visual image of the south of France has been defined by the artists who have painted there since the end of the 19th century, drawn by the fierce light of the Midi. Today the south of France must be the best place in the world to appreciate the landscapes that inspired the masters - C\u00e9zanne, Renoir, Van Gogh, Matisse, Picasso and a host of others - and to see their work in several world-class museums.\"The Midi fires the senses: makes your hand more agile, your eye sharper, your brain clearer,\" wrote Van Gogh. But C\u00e9zanne was the first, a native of the Midi, born in Aix-en-Provence. After several periods in Paris and the north of France he returned home, to the strong light and dramatic shadows of his native land. His exploration of the underlying forms of nature was to inspire many artists after him, notably Picasso, who called C\u00e9zanne \"the father of us all\". Now a major new exhibition at the Mus\u00e9e Granet in Aix-en-Provence will bring the two together, with around 100 works by both artists. It shows how C\u00e9zanne and Picasso used similar subjects, such as the still lifes of fruit and tablecloths, the harlequins and the naked bathers, how both struggled against the constraints of classical painting, and how C\u00e9zanne's explorations - his dogged attempts to plumb all aspects of a subject - led eventually to the simplified geometric forms and fractured angles of cubism. You can combine a visit to the exhibition with time spent exploring C\u00e9zanne's own country, paying homage to Mont Sainte-Victoire, the sacred mountain of the region, which C\u00e9zanne painted obsessively (87 times). You can visit his studio, Les Lauves, just outside Aix, kept in reverent homage with his palette, brushes, and still-life objects, though the view the artist painted is now somewhat blighted by modern development. You can also tour the Jas de Bouffan, the house where he lived and painted for 40 years, the labyrinthine Bib\u00e9mus quarries he painted (a cubist inspiration if ever there was one) and do a circuit of viewpoints for C\u00e9zanne's paintings.Picasso stayed faithful to C\u00e9zanne, buying several of his paintings for his personal collection, and eventually acquiring the 17th-century turreted chateau of Vauvenargues on the northern slopes of Sainte-Victoire itself. \"I have just bought myself C\u00e9zanne's mountains,\" he said. Picasso moved here from the Riviera and stayed from 1958-1965 with Jacqueline Roque, his second wife and protective companion for the last 20 years of his life. He produced many fine paintings here, in muted colours, influenced by the austere mountain terrain. He rendered the massif of Mont Sainte-Victoire in the form of a gigantic nude, in Nude under a Pine Tree (1959). Though he died in his villa in Mougins, in 1973 aged 92, it was at Vauvenargues he chose to be buried. Now the owner of the chateau, the daughter of Jacqueline, has agreed to open the chateau to visitors. For the duration of the exhibition small groups of visitors will be permitted to see Picasso's studio - preserved with brushes, paints and still-life arrangements - and his bedroom, with its furniture and a mandolin that appears in several of his paintings. A mural by the artist over the bathtub remains untouched. And there is his tomb, adorned with his sculpture, Woman with a Vase, and now shared with Jacqueline, who committed suicide in 1986. The Aix exhibition includes intimate photos by veteran photojournalist David Douglas Duncan of the couple at Vauvenargues. Access to Mont Sainte-Victoire itself is restricted in summer - it was ravaged by forest fires in 1989 - and a further threat has just appeared, with a proposal to run the new high-speed railway line from Marseille to Toulon at the foot of the mountain. Protest has been vociferous - from local wine-growers and olive farmers, and from those who want to protect the artistic heritage of the land. Ironically, one of the first pictures of Mont Sainte-Victoire painted by C\u00e9zanne, a fierce opponent of modern progress, was a protest against the proposed Aix-Rognac railway line, which would cut through the family estate. Nevertheless, the Proven\u00e7al landscape that inspired these artists remains essentially unchanged: the exhibition will be a wonderful opportunity to see it all through their eyes and appreciate what C\u00e9zanne called his \"promised land\".\u2022 Picasso-C\u00e9zanne 2009 runs from 25 May-27 September at the Mus\u00e9e Granet in Aix-en-Provence (museegranet-aixenprovence.fr). Tickets for a tour of Vauvenargues chateau must be bought at the museum and cost \u20ac7.70 for adults, \u20ac4.20 for teenagers and over-60s, \u20ac2.20 for under-13s, including obligatory shuttle bus from Aix. Advance tickets are sold out but get there early for one of 72 tickets available each day. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Marseille from \u00a330 one way.\u2022 Rosemary Bailey's latest book, Love and War in the Pyrenees (Weidenfeld & Nicolson) is out in paperback in July.Nice\"What made me stay are the great coloured reflections of January, the luminosity of daylight,\" said Matisse. His beautiful Italianate villa houses the Matisse Museum. As well as works from every period, his personal collection includes the vases, masks, pots and wall hangings used in his paintings. One moving example of his work is the Chapelle du Rosaire, an exquisite blue and white chapel he designed at the end of his life. If there was a heaven, he said, it would be \"a paradise where I paint frescoes\". \u2022 musee-matisse-nice.orgSt Paul de VenceThis chic village is now filled with galleries. Dining on the terrace of the legendary Colombe d'Or is not to be missed, despite the prices: you eat amid a priceless collection of art donated in lieu of payment by L\u00e9ger, Picasso, Braque, Modigliani and others. Nearby Fondation Maeght is one of the most celebrated fine art collections in France. \u2022 saint-pauldevence.com/tourism_uk.htmlCagnes-sur-merRenoir first came to Cagnes in 1883 with Monet and returned frequently to paint the filtered golden light, the olive trees and the terracotta roofs. His house, Les Collettes, is surrounded by a magnificent ancient olive grove - a shady retreat on a hot day - and inside 10 original Renoirs are on display, as well as his studio with chair, easel, palette and brushes. Much of the house remains as he left it, with his furniture and his handmade ceramics in the bathroom.\u2022 guideriviera.com/rever_art_musees.aspAntibesWhen war broke out in 1939, Picasso was in Antibes, painting Night Fishing at Antibes. After the war he was given the Grimaldi Palace, overlooking the rocky shore, as a studio. He donated most of the work he did there, including the huge La Joie de Vivre, to what is now the Picasso Museum. The collection also includes works by de Stael, Miro and \"School of Nice\" painters C\u00e9sar, Arman, Spoerri and Klein. \u2022 guideriviera.com/rever_art_musees.aspSt TropezMany artists were inspired by the light and colour of St Tropez, and the Mus\u00e9e de l'Annonciade has a good collection. Signac was one of the first artists to paint here, his sea- and landscapes using a pointillist rainbow palette of dots. His Umbrella Pine at Les Canoubiers captures the sparkling light and shimmering sea. In St Tropez today many of the views these artists painted can still be seen: the Citadelle, the harbour, the Place des Lices and the pine-fringed beaches. \u2022 saint-tropez.tv/html/annonciadeCeretCeret, near the Spanish border, is where, in 1911, Picasso and Braque explored the possibilities of cubism, resulting in celebrated works such as Picasso's Landscape at Ceret and Braque's Rooftops, Ceret. Ceret's museum has an excellent collection, including a series of bowls with images of bullfighting by Picasso, and an early painting of his, Portrait of Corina Pere Romeu (1902). \u2022 musee-ceret.comCollioureCollioure is famous as the birthplace of fauvism, one of the early avant-garde movements of the 20th century, its artists dubbed fauves or \"wild beasts\" for their unnaturally bright colours. Matisse came in 1905, followed by Gris and Derain, Picasso and Dufy. Matisse's Landscape at Collioure is a riot of colour, balanced with untouched white canvas. The chateau has exhibitions of modern art, the tiny cobbled streets are full of art galleries, and amateur painters set up their easels on the quayside. \u2022 chateaux-france.com/collioure", "tags": ["Provence holidays", "France holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art", "Paul Cezanne", "Pablo Picasso", "Art and design", "Short breaks"], "title": "See France through C\u00e9zanne and Picasso's eyes"},{"date": "2009-06-26T20:19:32Z", "country": "france", "content": "France's history of republicanism and anti-clericalism goes back to the revolution of 1789. The secular republic fiercely protects the rigid separation of the state from organised religion, established in 1905.In 2004, after a heated national debate, a law reasserted France's cherished religious neutrality in public schools, banning the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols in state schools \u2013 including Muslim headscarves, Jewish caps and Sikh turbans.French civil servants and public sector staff cannot wear religious symbols while working in state offices.But there is no law preventing headscarves or religious symbols being worn by members of the public in public spaces.The current debate over whether to ban full Islamic veils from being worn in public places intensified after Barack Obama's recent Middle East speech hit a raw nerve in France. He said it was \"important for western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practising religion as they see fit \u2013 for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear\". This was seen by some politicians as a jibe at France.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Secular separation in France"},{"date": "2009-05-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "When the former prime minister Dominique de Villepin warned that there was a risk of revolution in France, it was not just because he wanted to make life difficult for his arch-rival Nicolas Sarkozy. It was also because social unrest is genuinely on the rise. Yesterday thousands of protesters took to the streets - not as many as the millions who protested in March, but this was a respectable turnout, considering that it was the third national protest at the government's handling of the global downturn in four months.They are not just marching: universities have ground to a halt for three months over attempts to rewrite the terms of employment contracts for lecturers. There has been a wave of \"bossnappings\", where chief executives arriving at plants to announce layoffs found themselves barred from leaving. There have been commando-style \"picnics\" in supermarkets, where people feast from shelves shouting \"we will not pay for your crisis\". The protests are local and apparently spontaneous. Union officials find themselves not so much leading the action as trying to head it off. In five out of seven cases, bossnapping was used against foreign-owned companies (Sony, Caterpillar, 3M) which are reputed to be more cavalier about laying off workers than their French counterparts. Nor are strikes mere stunts. They represent a widespread feeling that if the president can pay billions to preserve the boss class, and their shares, he should do the same to protect workers. Popular outrage at the banking bailout may be similiar around the world, but it finds different forms of expression. Barack Obama may have told AIG bosses that the White House was the only thing standing between them and the pitchforks. But in France the feeling is that the pitchforks are not just metaphorical.International comparisons are deceptive, but on paper there is no glaring reason why the outrage in France should be so much more acute. The public deficit is high, but little more than half of Britain's. Nor is unemployment so much higher, although it is climbing faster. France entered the global turndown later than Britain, and fewer banks were in trouble. Social protection, although under attack, is still substantially more generous than in Britain.The big picture, however, masks structural problems. France has one of the highest rates of youth unemployment in the developed world, with about one quarter of its 2.5 million unemployed under the age of 25. The truth is that no government in Europe has the luxury of treating French, German or Greek social unrest as a spectator sport. The breakdown in the social compact, the gulf between promise and delivery, should concern everyone.", "tags": ["France", "Global economy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Business", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: May Day warning in France"},{"date": "2009-04-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Bistrot les Quatre Chats8 rue d'Orl\u00e9ans, 14360 Trouville-sur-Mer (0033 231 889 494)The menu changes daily and the food isn't classically French. A favourite of A-listers at the Deauville Film Festival.Benoit20 rue St Martin, 75004 Paris (0033 142 722 576)First opened in 1912, Benoit is now owned by Alain Ducasse. The head chef cooks classic bistro cuisine and they make their own p\u00e2t\u00e9s and tarts.Restaurant Astier44 rue Jean-Pierre Timbaud 75011 Paris (0033 143 571 635)An unfussy neighbourhood bistro, off the tourist trail, and famous for its cheese board.La BergerieLe Cloudit, 38114 Villard Reculas (0033 476 803 683)Family-run bistro with amazing mountain views and hearty Alpine food.Brasserie des Brotteaux1 place Jules Ferry, 69006 Lyon (0033 472 740 398)A beautiful and fashionable restaurant, with a beautiful and fashionable clientele, serving simple food in excellent sauces.L'Avant Port8 quai Daniel Rivaille, 17410 Saint Martin de R\u00e9 (0033 546 680 668)The food is cooked \u00e0 la plancha - on an oiled steel plate, which retains the freshness of the fish caught that day.La Cabane du FierLe Martray, 17590 Ars en R\u00e9 (0033 546 296 484). Open 1 May - 31 OctoberAn oyster farmer's cabin with a quirky bistro attached, this is the place to go for robust seafood with an incredible view out across the oyster flats.La Tupina6 Rue Porte de la Monnaie, 33800 Bordeaux (0033 556 915 637)A famed and traditional bistro where many dishes are cooked over the fire. Domaine de BlancardyMoules et Baucels (H\u00e9rault), 34190 Ganges (0033 467 739 494)Owner Laure Martial regularly wins awards for her wild boar, duck and rabbit. La CollineRoute des Cr\u00eates, 83230 Bormes les Mimosas (0033 494 648 287)A secret retreat hidden at the end of a track. Try Josette Olivier's speciality: goat cooked in white wine. Le Bistrot du Paradou57 avenue Vall\u00e9e des Baux, 13520 Paradou (0033 490 543 270)This relaxed brasserie serves a delicious set lunch - which changes daily according to what the owner's wife wants to cook. La Meranda4 rue Raoul Bosio, 06000 Nice (no telephone)Rustic peasant Ni\u00e7oise food at its best - get there early as there are no reservations and it's rightly popular.", "tags": ["Restaurants", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "The best bistros in France"},{"date": "2009-06-01T12:34:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Sunday 11.03pm BST: Flight AF447, carrying 216 passengers and 12 crew members, leaves Rio de Janeiro on Sunday at 7.03pm local time bound for Paris on a route scheduled to take 11 hours 15 minutes.For the first few hours of its flight the plane would have tracked the Brazilian coast heading north-east.2.33am: Last contact made with missing plane, according to Brazilian air force.2.48am: Plane leaves Brazilian radar, flying normally at an altitude of 35,000ft and at 453kph, according to the country's air force. At last contact, the plane is about 190 miles north-east of the coastal Brazilian city of Natal, near the archipelago of Fernando de Noronha.Planes routinely fly outside land-based radar coverage while crossing the Atlantic.3.14am: Plane sends automated message indicating a failure in an electronic circuit.3.20am: Attempts by Brazilian, Spanish, African and French traffic controllers to contact the plane fail. French military fails to contact the plane.The air force begins a search this morning near Fernando de Noronha. The region is about 1,500 miles north-east of Rio.9.52am: Paris airport official announces the plane is missing.10.10am: Plane fails to arrive at Charles De Gaulle airport.", "tags": ["France", "Brazil", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Air transport", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Timeline: Missing Air France plane"},{"date": "2009-05-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Ochre earth, twisted silvery olive trees, blue skies, red roofs and sunflowers ... Our visual image of the south of France has been defined by the artists who have painted there since the end of the 19th century, drawn by the fierce light of the Midi. Today the south of France must be the best place in the world to appreciate the landscapes that inspired the masters - C\u00e9zanne, Renoir, Van Gogh, Matisse, Picasso and a host of others - and to see their work in several world-class museums.\"The Midi fires the senses: makes your hand more agile, your eye sharper, your brain clearer,\" wrote Van Gogh. But C\u00e9zanne was the first, a native of the Midi, born in Aix-en-Provence. After several periods in Paris and the north of France he returned home, to the strong light and dramatic shadows of his native land. His exploration of the underlying forms of nature was to inspire many artists after him, notably Picasso, who called C\u00e9zanne \"the father of us all\". Now a major new exhibition at the Mus\u00e9e Granet in Aix-en-Provence will bring the two together, with around 100 works by both artists. It shows how C\u00e9zanne and Picasso used similar subjects, such as the still lifes of fruit and tablecloths, the harlequins and the naked bathers, how both struggled against the constraints of classical painting, and how C\u00e9zanne's explorations - his dogged attempts to plumb all aspects of a subject - led eventually to the simplified geometric forms and fractured angles of cubism. You can combine a visit to the exhibition with time spent exploring C\u00e9zanne's own country, paying homage to Mont Sainte-Victoire, the sacred mountain of the region, which C\u00e9zanne painted obsessively (87 times). You can visit his studio, Les Lauves, just outside Aix, kept in reverent homage with his palette, brushes, and still-life objects, though the view the artist painted is now somewhat blighted by modern development. You can also tour the Jas de Bouffan, the house where he lived and painted for 40 years, the labyrinthine Bib\u00e9mus quarries he painted (a cubist inspiration if ever there was one) and do a circuit of viewpoints for C\u00e9zanne's paintings.Picasso stayed faithful to C\u00e9zanne, buying several of his paintings for his personal collection, and eventually acquiring the 17th-century turreted chateau of Vauvenargues on the northern slopes of Sainte-Victoire itself. \"I have just bought myself C\u00e9zanne's mountains,\" he said. Picasso moved here from the Riviera and stayed from 1958-1965 with Jacqueline Roque, his second wife and protective companion for the last 20 years of his life. He produced many fine paintings here, in muted colours, influenced by the austere mountain terrain. He rendered the massif of Mont Sainte-Victoire in the form of a gigantic nude, in Nude under a Pine Tree (1959). Though he died in his villa in Mougins, in 1973 aged 92, it was at Vauvenargues he chose to be buried. Now the owner of the chateau, the daughter of Jacqueline, has agreed to open the chateau to visitors. For the duration of the exhibition small groups of visitors will be permitted to see Picasso's studio - preserved with brushes, paints and still-life arrangements - and his bedroom, with its furniture and a mandolin that appears in several of his paintings. A mural by the artist over the bathtub remains untouched. And there is his tomb, adorned with his sculpture, Woman with a Vase, and now shared with Jacqueline, who committed suicide in 1986. The Aix exhibition includes intimate photos by veteran photojournalist David Douglas Duncan of the couple at Vauvenargues. Access to Mont Sainte-Victoire itself is restricted in summer - it was ravaged by forest fires in 1989 - and a further threat has just appeared, with a proposal to run the new high-speed railway line from Marseille to Toulon at the foot of the mountain. Protest has been vociferous - from local wine-growers and olive farmers, and from those who want to protect the artistic heritage of the land. Ironically, one of the first pictures of Mont Sainte-Victoire painted by C\u00e9zanne, a fierce opponent of modern progress, was a protest against the proposed Aix-Rognac railway line, which would cut through the family estate. Nevertheless, the Proven\u00e7al landscape that inspired these artists remains essentially unchanged: the exhibition will be a wonderful opportunity to see it all through their eyes and appreciate what C\u00e9zanne called his \"promised land\".\u2022 Picasso-C\u00e9zanne 2009 runs from 25 May-27 September at the Mus\u00e9e Granet in Aix-en-Provence (museegranet-aixenprovence.fr). Tickets for a tour of Vauvenargues chateau must be bought at the museum and cost \u20ac7.70 for adults, \u20ac4.20 for teenagers and over-60s, \u20ac2.20 for under-13s, including obligatory shuttle bus from Aix. Advance tickets are sold out but get there early for one of 72 tickets available each day. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Marseille from \u00a330 one way.\u2022 Rosemary Bailey's latest book, Love and War in the Pyrenees (Weidenfeld & Nicolson) is out in paperback in July.Nice\"What made me stay are the great coloured reflections of January, the luminosity of daylight,\" said Matisse. His beautiful Italianate villa houses the Matisse Museum. As well as works from every period, his personal collection includes the vases, masks, pots and wall hangings used in his paintings. One moving example of his work is the Chapelle du Rosaire, an exquisite blue and white chapel he designed at the end of his life. If there was a heaven, he said, it would be \"a paradise where I paint frescoes\". \u2022 musee-matisse-nice.orgSt Paul de VenceThis chic village is now filled with galleries. Dining on the terrace of the legendary Colombe d'Or is not to be missed, despite the prices: you eat amid a priceless collection of art donated in lieu of payment by L\u00e9ger, Picasso, Braque, Modigliani and others. Nearby Fondation Maeght is one of the most celebrated fine art collections in France. \u2022 saint-pauldevence.com/tourism_uk.htmlCagnes-sur-merRenoir first came to Cagnes in 1883 with Monet and returned frequently to paint the filtered golden light, the olive trees and the terracotta roofs. His house, Les Collettes, is surrounded by a magnificent ancient olive grove - a shady retreat on a hot day - and inside 10 original Renoirs are on display, as well as his studio with chair, easel, palette and brushes. Much of the house remains as he left it, with his furniture and his handmade ceramics in the bathroom.\u2022 guideriviera.com/rever_art_musees.aspAntibesWhen war broke out in 1939, Picasso was in Antibes, painting Night Fishing at Antibes. After the war he was given the Grimaldi Palace, overlooking the rocky shore, as a studio. He donated most of the work he did there, including the huge La Joie de Vivre, to what is now the Picasso Museum. The collection also includes works by de Stael, Miro and \"School of Nice\" painters C\u00e9sar, Arman, Spoerri and Klein. \u2022 guideriviera.com/rever_art_musees.aspSt TropezMany artists were inspired by the light and colour of St Tropez, and the Mus\u00e9e de l'Annonciade has a good collection. Signac was one of the first artists to paint here, his sea- and landscapes using a pointillist rainbow palette of dots. His Umbrella Pine at Les Canoubiers captures the sparkling light and shimmering sea. In St Tropez today many of the views these artists painted can still be seen: the Citadelle, the harbour, the Place des Lices and the pine-fringed beaches. \u2022 saint-tropez.tv/html/annonciadeCeretCeret, near the Spanish border, is where, in 1911, Picasso and Braque explored the possibilities of cubism, resulting in celebrated works such as Picasso's Landscape at Ceret and Braque's Rooftops, Ceret. Ceret's museum has an excellent collection, including a series of bowls with images of bullfighting by Picasso, and an early painting of his, Portrait of Corina Pere Romeu (1902). \u2022 musee-ceret.comCollioureCollioure is famous as the birthplace of fauvism, one of the early avant-garde movements of the 20th century, its artists dubbed fauves or \"wild beasts\" for their unnaturally bright colours. Matisse came in 1905, followed by Gris and Derain, Picasso and Dufy. Matisse's Landscape at Collioure is a riot of colour, balanced with untouched white canvas. The chateau has exhibitions of modern art, the tiny cobbled streets are full of art galleries, and amateur painters set up their easels on the quayside. \u2022 chateaux-france.com/collioure", "tags": ["Provence holidays", "France holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art", "Paul Cezanne", "Pablo Picasso", "Art and design", "Short breaks"], "title": "See France through C\u00e9zanne and Picasso's eyes"},{"date": "2009-04-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "French JuraIn between Burgundy and Switzerland, French Jura is a bucolic green wedge coated in pasture and vineyards - wine buffs will impel you to look out for squat bottles of the vin jaune, a punchy yellow wine made from the local Savagnin grape. The lakeside La Grange \u00e0 Nicolas in the tiny village of Baume-les-Messieurs is prime middle-of-nowhere territory, and has four double bedrooms in an 18th-century farmhouse, as well as a stone cottage that sleeps seven. \u2022 lagrangeanicolas.com (0033 3 84 85 20 39), doubles from \u20ac90 B&B. Lons-le-Saunier from London from \u00a3113 return with Railbookers (0844 482 1010, railbookers.com).GersWith acres of undulating countryside and hilltop villages that are famous for their markets, it's no surprise that the south-western district of Gers (once Gascony) is often referred to as the French Tuscany. But you won't find yourself surrounded by British aspirants here, nor any holidaying former prime ministers, just in-the-know Parisians on rural escapes, and epicureans on armagnac and foie gras pilgrimages. The town of Lectoure is a great place to base yourself, perhaps in the extravagantly-named H\u00f4tel de Bastard, or at the nearby Castelnau des Fieumarcon, where the 12 stone houses form a stronghold that was built by local feudal lords in the 13th century.\u2022 hotel-de-bastard.com (+562 68 82 44), from \u20ac50 room only. lagarde.org (+5 62 68 99 30), from \u20ac90 a house. London-Agen from \u00a399 return with Railbookers. The Dr\u00f4meA high, rural swathe of land running from the Rh\u00f4ne at Valence to the Haute-Alpes, the Dr\u00f4me is a lesser-trodden section of France's south-east. The valleys of the interior are dotted with dusty medieval villages and centuries-old oil mills, stretching down to the southern vineyards that fall under the C\u00f4tes du Rh\u00f4ne appellation. But the region's north-east, bound by the reaches of the Vecors nature park, is a different world: pitted with caves and gorges that sheltered Resistance fighters during the second world war.\u2022 See the Rh\u00f4ne-Alpes section at france-voyage.com/en for accommodation. London-Valence from \u00a399 return with Railbookers. LimousinThe rolling hills of Limousin have historically provoked some heady emotions - Simone de Beauvoir and Jean-Paul Sartre were once busted indulging in some heavy petting near her family's country pile, although family records indicate they were merely \"reading philosophy\". Perhaps. Either way, the district is frequently overlooked by tourists in favour of the neighbouring Dordogne and Lot valleys, leaving it unspoilt for those wanderers who fancy tramping down country lanes and dipping into farms to sample freshly-churned cheese. You'll find a range of holiday cottages and caravans on limousinlets.com. For a taste of true isolation, base yourself in Creuse, the most sparsely populated prefecture.\u2022 London-Limoges from \u00a389 return with Railbookers. For\u00eat de Compi\u00e8gneThe string of forests north of Paris were once the favoured hunting grounds of French royalty, and the For\u00eat de Compi\u00e8gne is no exception. The magnificent Pierrefonds castle on the forest's eastern fringes was home to Napoleon. Hiding in the middle of the 36,000 acres (146sq km) of beech and oak is the fortified village of Saint-Jean-aux-Bois, where the Auberge \u00e0 la Bonne Id\u00e9e has stylish bedrooms set in an old woodcutters' house and converted stables. The surrounding forest is crisscrossed with miles of walking paths and bridleways, and a handful of small lakes, but most of the visitors come here for the food - the in-house restaurant is locally-famed.\u2022 a-la-bonne-idee.fr (+344 42 84 09), from \u20ac80 room only. London-Compi\u00e8gne from \u00a383 return with Railbookers.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Short breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Immerse yourself in rural France"},{"date": "2009-06-26T20:19:32Z", "country": "france", "content": "France's history of republicanism and anti-clericalism goes back to the revolution of 1789. The secular republic fiercely protects the rigid separation of the state from organised religion, established in 1905.In 2004, after a heated national debate, a law reasserted France's cherished religious neutrality in public schools, banning the wearing of conspicuous religious symbols in state schools \u2013 including Muslim headscarves, Jewish caps and Sikh turbans.French civil servants and public sector staff cannot wear religious symbols while working in state offices.But there is no law preventing headscarves or religious symbols being worn by members of the public in public spaces.The current debate over whether to ban full Islamic veils from being worn in public places intensified after Barack Obama's recent Middle East speech hit a raw nerve in France. He said it was \"important for western countries to avoid impeding Muslim citizens from practising religion as they see fit \u2013 for instance, by dictating what clothes a Muslim woman should wear\". This was seen by some politicians as a jibe at France.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Secular separation in France"},{"date": "2009-05-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "When the former prime minister Dominique de Villepin warned that there was a risk of revolution in France, it was not just because he wanted to make life difficult for his arch-rival Nicolas Sarkozy. It was also because social unrest is genuinely on the rise. Yesterday thousands of protesters took to the streets - not as many as the millions who protested in March, but this was a respectable turnout, considering that it was the third national protest at the government's handling of the global downturn in four months.They are not just marching: universities have ground to a halt for three months over attempts to rewrite the terms of employment contracts for lecturers. There has been a wave of \"bossnappings\", where chief executives arriving at plants to announce layoffs found themselves barred from leaving. There have been commando-style \"picnics\" in supermarkets, where people feast from shelves shouting \"we will not pay for your crisis\". The protests are local and apparently spontaneous. Union officials find themselves not so much leading the action as trying to head it off. In five out of seven cases, bossnapping was used against foreign-owned companies (Sony, Caterpillar, 3M) which are reputed to be more cavalier about laying off workers than their French counterparts. Nor are strikes mere stunts. They represent a widespread feeling that if the president can pay billions to preserve the boss class, and their shares, he should do the same to protect workers. Popular outrage at the banking bailout may be similiar around the world, but it finds different forms of expression. Barack Obama may have told AIG bosses that the White House was the only thing standing between them and the pitchforks. But in France the feeling is that the pitchforks are not just metaphorical.International comparisons are deceptive, but on paper there is no glaring reason why the outrage in France should be so much more acute. The public deficit is high, but little more than half of Britain's. Nor is unemployment so much higher, although it is climbing faster. France entered the global turndown later than Britain, and fewer banks were in trouble. Social protection, although under attack, is still substantially more generous than in Britain.The big picture, however, masks structural problems. France has one of the highest rates of youth unemployment in the developed world, with about one quarter of its 2.5 million unemployed under the age of 25. The truth is that no government in Europe has the luxury of treating French, German or Greek social unrest as a spectator sport. The breakdown in the social compact, the gulf between promise and delivery, should concern everyone.", "tags": ["France", "Global economy", "Financial crisis", "World news", "Business", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe"], "title": "Editorial: May Day warning in France"},{"date": "2009-04-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Bistrot les Quatre Chats8 rue d'Orl\u00e9ans, 14360 Trouville-sur-Mer (0033 231 889 494)The menu changes daily and the food isn't classically French. A favourite of A-listers at the Deauville Film Festival.Benoit20 rue St Martin, 75004 Paris (0033 142 722 576)First opened in 1912, Benoit is now owned by Alain Ducasse. The head chef cooks classic bistro cuisine and they make their own p\u00e2t\u00e9s and tarts.Restaurant Astier44 rue Jean-Pierre Timbaud 75011 Paris (0033 143 571 635)An unfussy neighbourhood bistro, off the tourist trail, and famous for its cheese board.La BergerieLe Cloudit, 38114 Villard Reculas (0033 476 803 683)Family-run bistro with amazing mountain views and hearty Alpine food.Brasserie des Brotteaux1 place Jules Ferry, 69006 Lyon (0033 472 740 398)A beautiful and fashionable restaurant, with a beautiful and fashionable clientele, serving simple food in excellent sauces.L'Avant Port8 quai Daniel Rivaille, 17410 Saint Martin de R\u00e9 (0033 546 680 668)The food is cooked \u00e0 la plancha - on an oiled steel plate, which retains the freshness of the fish caught that day.La Cabane du FierLe Martray, 17590 Ars en R\u00e9 (0033 546 296 484). Open 1 May - 31 OctoberAn oyster farmer's cabin with a quirky bistro attached, this is the place to go for robust seafood with an incredible view out across the oyster flats.La Tupina6 Rue Porte de la Monnaie, 33800 Bordeaux (0033 556 915 637)A famed and traditional bistro where many dishes are cooked over the fire. Domaine de BlancardyMoules et Baucels (H\u00e9rault), 34190 Ganges (0033 467 739 494)Owner Laure Martial regularly wins awards for her wild boar, duck and rabbit. La CollineRoute des Cr\u00eates, 83230 Bormes les Mimosas (0033 494 648 287)A secret retreat hidden at the end of a track. Try Josette Olivier's speciality: goat cooked in white wine. Le Bistrot du Paradou57 avenue Vall\u00e9e des Baux, 13520 Paradou (0033 490 543 270)This relaxed brasserie serves a delicious set lunch - which changes daily according to what the owner's wife wants to cook. La Meranda4 rue Raoul Bosio, 06000 Nice (no telephone)Rustic peasant Ni\u00e7oise food at its best - get there early as there are no reservations and it's rightly popular.", "tags": ["Restaurants", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "The best bistros in France"},{"date": "2009-06-01T12:34:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Sunday 11.03pm BST: Flight AF447, carrying 216 passengers and 12 crew members, leaves Rio de Janeiro on Sunday at 7.03pm local time bound for Paris on a route scheduled to take 11 hours 15 minutes.For the first few hours of its flight the plane would have tracked the Brazilian coast heading north-east.2.33am: Last contact made with missing plane, according to Brazilian air force.2.48am: Plane leaves Brazilian radar, flying normally at an altitude of 35,000ft and at 453kph, according to the country's air force. At last contact, the plane is about 190 miles north-east of the coastal Brazilian city of Natal, near the archipelago of Fernando de Noronha.Planes routinely fly outside land-based radar coverage while crossing the Atlantic.3.14am: Plane sends automated message indicating a failure in an electronic circuit.3.20am: Attempts by Brazilian, Spanish, African and French traffic controllers to contact the plane fail. French military fails to contact the plane.The air force begins a search this morning near Fernando de Noronha. The region is about 1,500 miles north-east of Rio.9.52am: Paris airport official announces the plane is missing.10.10am: Plane fails to arrive at Charles De Gaulle airport.", "tags": ["France", "Brazil", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Air transport", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Timeline: Missing Air France plane"},{"date": "2009-05-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Ochre earth, twisted silvery olive trees, blue skies, red roofs and sunflowers ... Our visual image of the south of France has been defined by the artists who have painted there since the end of the 19th century, drawn by the fierce light of the Midi. Today the south of France must be the best place in the world to appreciate the landscapes that inspired the masters - C\u00e9zanne, Renoir, Van Gogh, Matisse, Picasso and a host of others - and to see their work in several world-class museums.\"The Midi fires the senses: makes your hand more agile, your eye sharper, your brain clearer,\" wrote Van Gogh. But C\u00e9zanne was the first, a native of the Midi, born in Aix-en-Provence. After several periods in Paris and the north of France he returned home, to the strong light and dramatic shadows of his native land. His exploration of the underlying forms of nature was to inspire many artists after him, notably Picasso, who called C\u00e9zanne \"the father of us all\". Now a major new exhibition at the Mus\u00e9e Granet in Aix-en-Provence will bring the two together, with around 100 works by both artists. It shows how C\u00e9zanne and Picasso used similar subjects, such as the still lifes of fruit and tablecloths, the harlequins and the naked bathers, how both struggled against the constraints of classical painting, and how C\u00e9zanne's explorations - his dogged attempts to plumb all aspects of a subject - led eventually to the simplified geometric forms and fractured angles of cubism. You can combine a visit to the exhibition with time spent exploring C\u00e9zanne's own country, paying homage to Mont Sainte-Victoire, the sacred mountain of the region, which C\u00e9zanne painted obsessively (87 times). You can visit his studio, Les Lauves, just outside Aix, kept in reverent homage with his palette, brushes, and still-life objects, though the view the artist painted is now somewhat blighted by modern development. You can also tour the Jas de Bouffan, the house where he lived and painted for 40 years, the labyrinthine Bib\u00e9mus quarries he painted (a cubist inspiration if ever there was one) and do a circuit of viewpoints for C\u00e9zanne's paintings.Picasso stayed faithful to C\u00e9zanne, buying several of his paintings for his personal collection, and eventually acquiring the 17th-century turreted chateau of Vauvenargues on the northern slopes of Sainte-Victoire itself. \"I have just bought myself C\u00e9zanne's mountains,\" he said. Picasso moved here from the Riviera and stayed from 1958-1965 with Jacqueline Roque, his second wife and protective companion for the last 20 years of his life. He produced many fine paintings here, in muted colours, influenced by the austere mountain terrain. He rendered the massif of Mont Sainte-Victoire in the form of a gigantic nude, in Nude under a Pine Tree (1959). Though he died in his villa in Mougins, in 1973 aged 92, it was at Vauvenargues he chose to be buried. Now the owner of the chateau, the daughter of Jacqueline, has agreed to open the chateau to visitors. For the duration of the exhibition small groups of visitors will be permitted to see Picasso's studio - preserved with brushes, paints and still-life arrangements - and his bedroom, with its furniture and a mandolin that appears in several of his paintings. A mural by the artist over the bathtub remains untouched. And there is his tomb, adorned with his sculpture, Woman with a Vase, and now shared with Jacqueline, who committed suicide in 1986. The Aix exhibition includes intimate photos by veteran photojournalist David Douglas Duncan of the couple at Vauvenargues. Access to Mont Sainte-Victoire itself is restricted in summer - it was ravaged by forest fires in 1989 - and a further threat has just appeared, with a proposal to run the new high-speed railway line from Marseille to Toulon at the foot of the mountain. Protest has been vociferous - from local wine-growers and olive farmers, and from those who want to protect the artistic heritage of the land. Ironically, one of the first pictures of Mont Sainte-Victoire painted by C\u00e9zanne, a fierce opponent of modern progress, was a protest against the proposed Aix-Rognac railway line, which would cut through the family estate. Nevertheless, the Proven\u00e7al landscape that inspired these artists remains essentially unchanged: the exhibition will be a wonderful opportunity to see it all through their eyes and appreciate what C\u00e9zanne called his \"promised land\".\u2022 Picasso-C\u00e9zanne 2009 runs from 25 May-27 September at the Mus\u00e9e Granet in Aix-en-Provence (museegranet-aixenprovence.fr). Tickets for a tour of Vauvenargues chateau must be bought at the museum and cost \u20ac7.70 for adults, \u20ac4.20 for teenagers and over-60s, \u20ac2.20 for under-13s, including obligatory shuttle bus from Aix. Advance tickets are sold out but get there early for one of 72 tickets available each day. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Marseille from \u00a330 one way.\u2022 Rosemary Bailey's latest book, Love and War in the Pyrenees (Weidenfeld & Nicolson) is out in paperback in July.Nice\"What made me stay are the great coloured reflections of January, the luminosity of daylight,\" said Matisse. His beautiful Italianate villa houses the Matisse Museum. As well as works from every period, his personal collection includes the vases, masks, pots and wall hangings used in his paintings. One moving example of his work is the Chapelle du Rosaire, an exquisite blue and white chapel he designed at the end of his life. If there was a heaven, he said, it would be \"a paradise where I paint frescoes\". \u2022 musee-matisse-nice.orgSt Paul de VenceThis chic village is now filled with galleries. Dining on the terrace of the legendary Colombe d'Or is not to be missed, despite the prices: you eat amid a priceless collection of art donated in lieu of payment by L\u00e9ger, Picasso, Braque, Modigliani and others. Nearby Fondation Maeght is one of the most celebrated fine art collections in France. \u2022 saint-pauldevence.com/tourism_uk.htmlCagnes-sur-merRenoir first came to Cagnes in 1883 with Monet and returned frequently to paint the filtered golden light, the olive trees and the terracotta roofs. His house, Les Collettes, is surrounded by a magnificent ancient olive grove - a shady retreat on a hot day - and inside 10 original Renoirs are on display, as well as his studio with chair, easel, palette and brushes. Much of the house remains as he left it, with his furniture and his handmade ceramics in the bathroom.\u2022 guideriviera.com/rever_art_musees.aspAntibesWhen war broke out in 1939, Picasso was in Antibes, painting Night Fishing at Antibes. After the war he was given the Grimaldi Palace, overlooking the rocky shore, as a studio. He donated most of the work he did there, including the huge La Joie de Vivre, to what is now the Picasso Museum. The collection also includes works by de Stael, Miro and \"School of Nice\" painters C\u00e9sar, Arman, Spoerri and Klein. \u2022 guideriviera.com/rever_art_musees.aspSt TropezMany artists were inspired by the light and colour of St Tropez, and the Mus\u00e9e de l'Annonciade has a good collection. Signac was one of the first artists to paint here, his sea- and landscapes using a pointillist rainbow palette of dots. His Umbrella Pine at Les Canoubiers captures the sparkling light and shimmering sea. In St Tropez today many of the views these artists painted can still be seen: the Citadelle, the harbour, the Place des Lices and the pine-fringed beaches. \u2022 saint-tropez.tv/html/annonciadeCeretCeret, near the Spanish border, is where, in 1911, Picasso and Braque explored the possibilities of cubism, resulting in celebrated works such as Picasso's Landscape at Ceret and Braque's Rooftops, Ceret. Ceret's museum has an excellent collection, including a series of bowls with images of bullfighting by Picasso, and an early painting of his, Portrait of Corina Pere Romeu (1902). \u2022 musee-ceret.comCollioureCollioure is famous as the birthplace of fauvism, one of the early avant-garde movements of the 20th century, its artists dubbed fauves or \"wild beasts\" for their unnaturally bright colours. Matisse came in 1905, followed by Gris and Derain, Picasso and Dufy. Matisse's Landscape at Collioure is a riot of colour, balanced with untouched white canvas. The chateau has exhibitions of modern art, the tiny cobbled streets are full of art galleries, and amateur painters set up their easels on the quayside. \u2022 chateaux-france.com/collioure", "tags": ["Provence holidays", "France holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art", "Paul Cezanne", "Pablo Picasso", "Art and design", "Short breaks"], "title": "See France through C\u00e9zanne and Picasso's eyes"},{"date": "2009-04-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "French JuraIn between Burgundy and Switzerland, French Jura is a bucolic green wedge coated in pasture and vineyards - wine buffs will impel you to look out for squat bottles of the vin jaune, a punchy yellow wine made from the local Savagnin grape. The lakeside La Grange \u00e0 Nicolas in the tiny village of Baume-les-Messieurs is prime middle-of-nowhere territory, and has four double bedrooms in an 18th-century farmhouse, as well as a stone cottage that sleeps seven. \u2022 lagrangeanicolas.com (0033 3 84 85 20 39), doubles from \u20ac90 B&B. Lons-le-Saunier from London from \u00a3113 return with Railbookers (0844 482 1010, railbookers.com).GersWith acres of undulating countryside and hilltop villages that are famous for their markets, it's no surprise that the south-western district of Gers (once Gascony) is often referred to as the French Tuscany. But you won't find yourself surrounded by British aspirants here, nor any holidaying former prime ministers, just in-the-know Parisians on rural escapes, and epicureans on armagnac and foie gras pilgrimages. The town of Lectoure is a great place to base yourself, perhaps in the extravagantly-named H\u00f4tel de Bastard, or at the nearby Castelnau des Fieumarcon, where the 12 stone houses form a stronghold that was built by local feudal lords in the 13th century.\u2022 hotel-de-bastard.com (+562 68 82 44), from \u20ac50 room only. lagarde.org (+5 62 68 99 30), from \u20ac90 a house. London-Agen from \u00a399 return with Railbookers. The Dr\u00f4meA high, rural swathe of land running from the Rh\u00f4ne at Valence to the Haute-Alpes, the Dr\u00f4me is a lesser-trodden section of France's south-east. The valleys of the interior are dotted with dusty medieval villages and centuries-old oil mills, stretching down to the southern vineyards that fall under the C\u00f4tes du Rh\u00f4ne appellation. But the region's north-east, bound by the reaches of the Vecors nature park, is a different world: pitted with caves and gorges that sheltered Resistance fighters during the second world war.\u2022 See the Rh\u00f4ne-Alpes section at france-voyage.com/en for accommodation. London-Valence from \u00a399 return with Railbookers. LimousinThe rolling hills of Limousin have historically provoked some heady emotions - Simone de Beauvoir and Jean-Paul Sartre were once busted indulging in some heavy petting near her family's country pile, although family records indicate they were merely \"reading philosophy\". Perhaps. Either way, the district is frequently overlooked by tourists in favour of the neighbouring Dordogne and Lot valleys, leaving it unspoilt for those wanderers who fancy tramping down country lanes and dipping into farms to sample freshly-churned cheese. You'll find a range of holiday cottages and caravans on limousinlets.com. For a taste of true isolation, base yourself in Creuse, the most sparsely populated prefecture.\u2022 London-Limoges from \u00a389 return with Railbookers. For\u00eat de Compi\u00e8gneThe string of forests north of Paris were once the favoured hunting grounds of French royalty, and the For\u00eat de Compi\u00e8gne is no exception. The magnificent Pierrefonds castle on the forest's eastern fringes was home to Napoleon. Hiding in the middle of the 36,000 acres (146sq km) of beech and oak is the fortified village of Saint-Jean-aux-Bois, where the Auberge \u00e0 la Bonne Id\u00e9e has stylish bedrooms set in an old woodcutters' house and converted stables. The surrounding forest is crisscrossed with miles of walking paths and bridleways, and a handful of small lakes, but most of the visitors come here for the food - the in-house restaurant is locally-famed.\u2022 a-la-bonne-idee.fr (+344 42 84 09), from \u20ac80 room only. London-Compi\u00e8gne from \u00a383 return with Railbookers.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Short breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Immerse yourself in rural France"},{"date": "2009-06-03T12:15:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "Investigators in the Air France crash face a daunting but not impossible task in retrieving the black boxes that lie somewhere at the bottom of the Atlantic.The French government has diverted a scientific expedition from underwater volcanoes off the Azores to the search, which could shed light on the disappearance of the Airbus A330 with 228 people on board. The vessels France is deploying include the Nautile, a manned craft with a crew of three that can go as deep as 6,000 metres (19,685 feet), and the Victor, a remote-operated vehicle that can reach the same depth. The two would operate from a mother ship, the Pourquoi Pas.If the black boxes \u2013 two separate devices containing cockpit voice recordings and instrument data \u2013 lie as is suspected in water 4,000 metres deep, they would be well within reach of the submersibles.\"It will be difficult but doable; that is well within their operating range,\" said Dr Doug Connelly, a geochemist at the National Oceanography Centre in Southampton. \"They are designed to do this kind of work so it is extremely feasible. But they will be difficult to deploy because of the rough weather.\"The black boxes have an underwater beacon called a pinger that is activated for 30 days when the recorder is immersed in water. That is why investigators are in a race against the clock.\"There is no doubt about it; you will be pushing the limits of the technology. It is not a straightforward operation,\" said Neil Wells, a senior lecturer in oceanography and meteorology.A US navy report based on similar disasters, released under freedom of information last year, found it was possible to recover aircraft wreckage including black boxes from depths of up to 6,000 metres. It cited advances since the 1980s in technology such as sonar for combing rugged sea floors, new software and acoustic beacons to indicate a position underwater.Both recorders were recovered from the crash of Air India Flight 182, which was blown up off the Irish coast in 1985. They were found 2,000 metres down in a search that lasted more than two weeks. Two years later, South African Airways Flight 295 crashed into the Indian Ocean near Mauritius, triggering the deepest hunt for an airliner yet undertaken. Investigators recovered the cockpit voice recorder after a three-month search from a record depth of more than 4,200 metres.The beacon from a black box can transmit from depths down to 4,300 metres, according to the US National Transportation Safety Board.", "tags": ["Plane crashes", "France", "Brazil", "World news", "Air transport", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Daunting search for Air France black boxes"},{"date": "2009-08-28T23:10:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "In a small Normandy village, surrounded by wheat fields, Gwen Le Berre keeps a\u00a0Scientology \"electrometer\" machine in his bedroom. He opens the large green briefcase and peers at the machine inside. It looks like a lie-detector from an\u00a0old TV cop show and Le Berre doesn't really understand how it works \u2013 he just knows it's a key piece of kit for the Church of Scientology.Le Berre, 21, keeps the machine as a memento of his mother's life. Four days before Christmas 2006, Gloria Lopez, a 47-year-old secretary, tidied her kitchen, hung out her washing, left her dull, suburban apartment overlooking the railway in Colombes, west of Paris, and walked the 30 metres out on to the tracks. She stood with her arms outstretched, smiling at the driver of the oncoming commuter train. He couldn't stop in time.Lopez had left Spain in the 80s to marry Pascal Le Berre, a French secondary school teacher. The couple had two children together in Normandy, but divorced soon afterwards. It was just after the split that Lopez \u2013 who had always been interested in alternative medicine and esoteric ideas \u2013 met some Scientologists and signed up. The church was to become her life. Eventually, she moved to Paris, leaving her two children behind, to be nearer the Scientology Centre.\"When she found herself alone after the divorce, her need for a spiritual search was reawakened,\" Pascal Le Berre says. \"At the start, Scientology gave her confidence, it gave her the illusion she could be stronger than she thought. She saw it as helping the world work better \u2013\u00a0even\u00a0a way of saving the world.\"Gwen Le Berre had been due to visit his mother to give her her Christmas present two days after she killed herself. His elder sister, Mathilde, had\u00a0seen her a few weeks before and, although Lopez had lost weight in recent months,\u00a0she had seemed in good form. They were convinced she would have left a suicide note, and\u00a0went to her apartment, where the shelves were stacked with Scientology books and DVDs, to search for one. Instead, they found a box of documents in which she had handwritten a series of punishing self-appraisals as part of her membership of the Church of Scientology. She wrote of how she owed money to the organisation for courses, was struggling to advance up the path to spiritual enlightenment, really wanted to succeed as a\u00a0Scientologist, and regretted every mistake in her life. \"She even wrote that she had surfed the internet for two minutes beyond her allocated lunch break at work,\" Gwen says.Pascal agrees: \"It was as if everything she tried to do was a failure \u2013 not advancing up the chain of Scientology courses, but also being distant from her children. She felt a\u00a0lot of pain over that.\"Surprised at the lack of bills and other normal financial documents at the flat \u2013 where Lopez often housed Scientologist lodgers, and which other church members regularly visited \u2013 the family wondered if other documents had gone missing or been removed.But after reading her tormented writings, Lopez's children and her ex-husband decided to\u00a0file a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for what they claim is its role in her death. They estimate that in around 10 years as a\u00a0Scientologist, Lopez spent between \u20ac200,000 and \u20ac250,000 on courses and books \u2013 despite her secretary's salary, which was \u20ac2,000 a month at the time of her death. Her family also claim that she was counselled by Scientology financial advisers and decided to sell a property she had inherited in Spain, freeing up capital for more courses. \"They stole my mother,\" Gwen says. \"I\u00a0don't feel I knew my mother apart from in her role as a\u00a0Scientologist.\"The police investigation into the Lopez case is just one of a series of investigations and legal cases that has led the Church of Scientology to complain of a \"climate of hatred\" and a state-sponsored \"inquisition\" against them in France. Together they have the potential to threaten Scientology's very survival in France and undermine it elsewhere. This autumn, not only could its two flagship centres in France be closed down, but the church itself could be convicted of\u00a0\"organised fraud\".Founded in California in the 50s by the flamboyant science fiction author, L Ron Hubbard, the Church of Scientology claims to offer spiritual self-improvement based on his writings. From the beginning it attracted controversy. It vehemently opposes conventional psychiatry, instead favouring Hubbard's philosophy of mental health, known as Dianetics. This teaches that a person's spirit can be cleared of negative experiences and encourages members to progress up \"The Bridge to Total Freedom\" through a complex \"auditing\" process, until they reach the most advanced level of spiritual \"clarity\". The movement is fiercely protective of copyright over its teachings and its central idea that humans are descended from Thetans \u2013 an exiled race from another planet. Hollywood members include Tom Cruise and John Travolta, and Scientology now considers itself to be one of the fastest-growing new religions in the world, claiming more than 7,900 churches, missions and groups in 164 countries.This year the movement was hit by scandal in Florida when senior members defected and alleged routine physical attacks by the church's leader, David Miscavige \u2013 allegations the church denies. But it is France that is threatening to become the organisation's nemesis. Scientology has no religious status in France, and in the 90s it\u00a0was included in a government inquiry's list of sects. The Church of Scientology says it has six churches and six missions in France, totalling 45,000 members. The French government puts the membership at between 2,000 and 3,000.Along with the Lopez case, there is an ongoing investigation into a 2008 kidnapping case in which Martine Boublil, a 48-year-old Frenchwoman, is said to have been found being held, half naked, on a vermin-infested mattress in a house in Sardinia. She filed a complaint saying that her brother \u2013 an ex-doctor and prominent Scientologist \u2013 had kidnapped her, trying to treat her psychological problems himself. The Church of Scientology and Boublil's brother, Claude, denies she was kidnapped and described the case\u00a0as a \"tragic family affair\" that the media had sought to exploit.But this May the most serious fraud trial that the Church of Scientology has faced anywhere in\u00a0the world opened in Paris. Not only were six important French Scientologists placed in the dock for organised fraud and illegally practising as pharmacists \u2013 for selling vitamins classed as medication in France \u2013 but, for the first time, the\u00a0Church itself was accused of organised fraud. In a historic move, the state prosecutor requested that the judges dismantle and dissolve Paris's two\u00a0flagship Scientology premises: the Celebrity Centre and its bookshop in the capital. The verdict is due at the end of October, and the world\u00a0is\u00a0watching. If the Paris centres are shut, it\u00a0will limit\u00a0Scientology's operations in France and may\u00a0have implications elsewhere.In May, Aude-Claire Malton, a former hotel housekeeper, took the stand against the Church of Scientology at the Palais de Justice in Paris. She\u00a0described how, depressed after a relationship failed, she met a group of Scientologists at a Metro exit and filled in their personality test questionnaire. A\u00a0few days later, the Church of Scientology called her to fix an appointment at the Celebrity Centre. \"They told me I was in a\u00a0very uneven state, and that they could help me by giving me some courses.\" The first course cost \u20ac20, but immediately afterwards she was offered a \"package\" of several sessions for \u20ac4,800. She emptied several savings accounts, her life insurance policy, and took out a loan to pay for more courses on the advice of her Scientology personal financial adviser.Asked by the judge how she could have spent so much, she said: \"You have to understand, you're in the brouhaha of the Scientology Centre where everyone repeats to you: 'You must continue, you're making progress, you're going to\u00a0be able to better yourself, all this is for you.' \"One of the products she spent money on was a full-time 10-day \"purification\" treatment, where she would take vitamins, then go for a run, then undertake two, three or four hours of sauna. She said she lost four kilos and emerged exhausted. \"I\u00a0had to do it if I wanted to progress,\" she said.The judge read out a document described as Malton's Scientology programme: \"Move house, get money for life insurance, pay back \u20ac16,000, resign.\" She said the organisation wanted her to work for them at the Celebrity Centre, where she would get courses as part of her pay. They wanted her to move into shared accommodation to cut her costs. But her family and ex-boyfriend stepped in and persuaded her to quit Scientology.Summing up, the French state prosecutor slammed a \"universe of secret rules\" and deliberate, planned, fraudulent manoeuvres. She criticised the movement's personality tests and electrometers, which she said were designed to impress and deceive members.When the verdict is handed down in October, it may not only see the dissolution of Scientology's major Paris branches, but fines of \u20ac4m and hefty sentences levelled against six individuals, among them Alain Rosenberg, the director general of Paris's Celebrity Centre and one of the select few Scientologists in France who have attained the church's highest grade of clarity and enlightenment. He denied the prosecution's charges that Scientology was a business that planned to ensnare new members to defraud them. \"I'm a\u00a0man of the church and not a director general of\u00a0a business,\" he said. He defined purification treatments, electrometers and courses in Ron Hubbard's book Dianetics as \"religious services\", arguing that \"spiritual elevation\" had no price.Defence lawyers said none of the individuals on\u00a0trial had made a cent and had acted \"out of religious conviction\". Scientology's barrister Patrick Maisonneuve argued that while other countries had recognised Scientology as a\u00a0religion, France was intent on \"burning Ron Hubbard's books in the courtyard of the Holy Chapel as the international community watches\u00a0in horror\".Just before the fraud trial began, pianist and teacher Alain Stoffen stoked the controversy surrounding Scientology in France with his book Voyage To The Heart Of Scientology. It tells the story of his \"descent to hell\" during more than a\u00a0decade as a\u00a0member of the organisation.A tall, intense man, Stoffen, 48, sits in his modest flat on the edge of Paris and describes an idyllic upbringing in Brussels, during which he decided he wanted to be a musician, performer, composer \u2013 \"an artist\". At 24, he took a piano teaching job in a Paris music school, which he says was run as a\u00a0recruiting ground by Scientologists. Inspired by the fact that his jazz hero, Chick Corea, was a\u00a0Scientologist, he plunged into Hubbard's teachings. His initial communication courses at the Celebrity Centre helped Stoffen overcome his shyness and perform better on stage. \"The results were phenomenal, tangible, concrete.\"He says it's wrong to assume people who join Scientology are \"weak\". \"The people who sign up have a healthy approach, they want to go forward in life, achieve their projects and ambitions.\" At the Celebrity Centre, he felt he was surrounded by an elite membership from the worlds of art and business. But Stoffen became tortured by his struggle to progress to higher levels of \"clarity\" and the constant scraping for money to pay for courses. \"You would do everything to pay that sum, it was\u00a0a question of life and death for us, spiritual life or\u00a0death,\" he says.\"When you're on the inside, the illusion is perfect. I was convinced that I was thinking for myself, that I became more authentic, that no one\u00a0ran my life. But the reverse was happening. Without realising, I had been subjected to a\u00a0real depersonalisation process, a\u00a0destructuring, so I\u00a0had become a type of clone. The aim is to destroy, destabilise the person, make them vulnerable, weaken them on a\u00a0psychological level\u00a0and place them in a state of dependence.\"In 15 years, Stoffen says he spent \u20ac45,000 on\u00a0Scientology courses and books which, he\u00a0suggests, was not a lot. \"Others spent well\u00a0over\u00a0\u20ac300,000.\"He married and had a child with another Scientologist, but after a painful break-up \u2013 \"managed\", he claims, by the organisation \u2013 he discovered what he called his secret \"personal dossier\". It was, he says, 150 pages long and contained minute details of his personal life, the workings of his divorce and custody of his child, and a programme detailing how to \"deal\" with him and get more money from him. \"It was a\u00a0horrible discovery. I vomited all night.\" He left in 2001 and filed a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for extortion, fraud, blackmail and illegally practising as pharmacists. In September 2006, an investigating judge dismissed the case, but in May 2007 that decision was overturned by an appeals court. A judicial investigation has been reopened and Stoffen will meet investigating magistrates in September as he waits for the next step in his case.\"When you leave Scientology, you're totally broken,\" he says, \"as a human being, financially, morally. Your own identity is the result of indoctrination aimed at destroying your critical faculties. When you leave, the feeling of shame and guilt is enormous. It's unbearable.\"Agn\u00e8s Bron, of the French Church of Scientology's public affairs department, says that \"false allegations against Scientology with no proof\" mainly come from \"apostates\" who have left the\u00a0religion, and that the credibility of apostates must be treated with caution. She says Stoffen's \"completely deformed image of Scientology\" has been used by the media, and the dossier he claims to have discovered had not been secret at all, because all personal dossiers can be consulted by\u00a0members. For Bron, the Stoffen case, the Paris fraud trial, the Lopez preliminary investigation and other high-profile complaints against Scientology are indicative of \"a climate of discrimination\" and \"orchestrated campaigns\" against Scientology in France, pushed by \"extremist and antireligious pressure groups\". Among those groups she includes the French government agency Miviludes, set up to observe and monitor whether sects and cults break the law or threaten public health.In a government office attached to the prime minister's residence on Paris's Left Bank, Georges Fenech, magistrate and former MP for president Nicolas Sarkozy's UMP party, sits leafing through his collection of files marked Scientology. As president of Miviludes, Fenech's official mission is to monitor every possible type of behaviour by a sect or cult that might fall outside the law. There are hundreds of small groups being studied from his office, but Fenech is best known as Scientology's number one enemy. In 1997, he was the investigating judge who instructed a major court case against Scientologists in Lyon. A young father, crippled with debts to the organisation, had killed himself by jumping from a 12th-floor window. In court, convictions were obtained for\u00a0manslaughter and fraud. To Scientologists, Fenech is on a \"crusade\" against the Church of Scientology, running a sustained press campaign against them and leading a state-sponsored witch-hunt. \"It's rather flattering,\" he smiles. \"It\u00a0proves that the work we do here is efficient.\"France, with its republican tradition of the separation of church and state, takes the behaviour of sects and cults seriously \u2013 perhaps because it has been shaken by a number of major tragedies in recent history, including the mass suicide of members of the cult Order of the Solar Temple.But a deep scepticism of sects is not confined to government officials. There was a media outcry in 2004 when Sarkozy, then minister for finance, was suspected of favouring Scientology after his very public meeting with Tom Cruise. Another followed last year when one of his top advisers, Emanuelle Mignon, said the state's attitude to Scientology was questionable. Fenech\u00a0insists: \"Nicolas Sarkozy met Tom Cruise, the international film star, not as the ambassador for Scientology. The meeting was never a\u00a0question of Scientology.\" He says the president is \"firm\" on the issue of sects, and Mignon has given assurances that her comments were taken out\u00a0of\u00a0context.The Church of Scientology argues that secular France is persecuting it for its beliefs as a\u00a0\"new religion\". Fenech disagrees. \"For France, Scientology is a vast commercial enterprise hiding behind a religious mask,\" he says. \"This is not something against the Ron Hubbardian doctrine, or beliefs about intergalactic happenings thousands of years ago. What we're interested in is that people are dragged into this movement, lose their liberty, autonomy and sometimes their life.\" He says France protects freedom of religion, \"but if a law is being broken, the state will go there. Religion isn't a protection against the law.\"Back in Normandy, Gwen Le Berre says he has no interest in any kind of campaign against Scientology \u2013 he just wants justice and the truth about his mother. Unable to close the chapter on their grief, the family still pore over what they know of Lopez's life as a Scientologist: how she joined every possible Scientology group in Paris, how she took her eight-year-old daughter to a\u00a0children's Scientology course and her young son to Scientology summer revision sessions, before her ex-husband insisted she stopped talking to the children about the movement until they were 18. \"When she died, I didn't know much about Scientology. It was the last thing that came to mind,\" her son says. \"If, by bringing a\u00a0case, we can open people's eyes, it will have been worth it.\"", "tags": ["Scientology", "France", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Scientology: crisis in France"},{"date": "2009-08-28T23:10:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "In a small Normandy village, surrounded by wheat fields, Gwen Le Berre keeps a\u00a0Scientology \"electrometer\" machine in his bedroom. He opens the large green briefcase and peers at the machine inside. It looks like a lie-detector from an\u00a0old TV cop show and Le Berre doesn't really understand how it works \u2013 he just knows it's a key piece of kit for the Church of Scientology.Le Berre, 21, keeps the machine as a memento of his mother's life. Four days before Christmas 2006, Gloria Lopez, a 47-year-old secretary, tidied her kitchen, hung out her washing, left her dull, suburban apartment overlooking the railway in Colombes, west of Paris, and walked the 30 metres out on to the tracks. She stood with her arms outstretched, smiling at the driver of the oncoming commuter train. He couldn't stop in time.Lopez had left Spain in the 80s to marry Pascal Le Berre, a French secondary school teacher. The couple had two children together in Normandy, but divorced soon afterwards. It was just after the split that Lopez \u2013 who had always been interested in alternative medicine and esoteric ideas \u2013 met some Scientologists and signed up. The church was to become her life. Eventually, she moved to Paris, leaving her two children behind, to be nearer the Scientology Centre.\"When she found herself alone after the divorce, her need for a spiritual search was reawakened,\" Pascal Le Berre says. \"At the start, Scientology gave her confidence, it gave her the illusion she could be stronger than she thought. She saw it as helping the world work better \u2013\u00a0even\u00a0a way of saving the world.\"Gwen Le Berre had been due to visit his mother to give her her Christmas present two days after she killed herself. His elder sister, Mathilde, had\u00a0seen her a few weeks before and, although Lopez had lost weight in recent months,\u00a0she had seemed in good form. They were convinced she would have left a suicide note, and\u00a0went to her apartment, where the shelves were stacked with Scientology books and DVDs, to search for one. Instead, they found a box of documents in which she had handwritten a series of punishing self-appraisals as part of her membership of the Church of Scientology. She wrote of how she owed money to the organisation for courses, was struggling to advance up the path to spiritual enlightenment, really wanted to succeed as a\u00a0Scientologist, and regretted every mistake in her life. \"She even wrote that she had surfed the internet for two minutes beyond her allocated lunch break at work,\" Gwen says.Pascal agrees: \"It was as if everything she tried to do was a failure \u2013 not advancing up the chain of Scientology courses, but also being distant from her children. She felt a\u00a0lot of pain over that.\"Surprised at the lack of bills and other normal financial documents at the flat \u2013 where Lopez often housed Scientologist lodgers, and which other church members regularly visited \u2013 the family wondered if other documents had gone missing or been removed.But after reading her tormented writings, Lopez's children and her ex-husband decided to\u00a0file a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for what they claim is its role in her death. They estimate that in around 10 years as a\u00a0Scientologist, Lopez spent between \u20ac200,000 and \u20ac250,000 on courses and books \u2013 despite her secretary's salary, which was \u20ac2,000 a month at the time of her death. Her family also claim that she was counselled by Scientology financial advisers and decided to sell a property she had inherited in Spain, freeing up capital for more courses. \"They stole my mother,\" Gwen says. \"I\u00a0don't feel I knew my mother apart from in her role as a\u00a0Scientologist.\"The police investigation into the Lopez case is just one of a series of investigations and legal cases that has led the Church of Scientology to complain of a \"climate of hatred\" and a state-sponsored \"inquisition\" against them in France. Together they have the potential to threaten Scientology's very survival in France and undermine it elsewhere. This autumn, not only could its two flagship centres in France be closed down, but the church itself could be convicted of\u00a0\"organised fraud\".Founded in California in the 50s by the flamboyant science fiction author, L Ron Hubbard, the Church of Scientology claims to offer spiritual self-improvement based on his writings. From the beginning it attracted controversy. It vehemently opposes conventional psychiatry, instead favouring Hubbard's philosophy of mental health, known as Dianetics. This teaches that a person's spirit can be cleared of negative experiences and encourages members to progress up \"The Bridge to Total Freedom\" through a complex \"auditing\" process, until they reach the most advanced level of spiritual \"clarity\". The movement is fiercely protective of copyright over its teachings and its central idea that humans are descended from Thetans \u2013 an exiled race from another planet. Hollywood members include Tom Cruise and John Travolta, and Scientology now considers itself to be one of the fastest-growing new religions in the world, claiming more than 7,900 churches, missions and groups in 164 countries.This year the movement was hit by scandal in Florida when senior members defected and alleged routine physical attacks by the church's leader, David Miscavige \u2013 allegations the church denies. But it is France that is threatening to become the organisation's nemesis. Scientology has no religious status in France, and in the 90s it\u00a0was included in a government inquiry's list of sects. The Church of Scientology says it has six churches and six missions in France, totalling 45,000 members. The French government puts the membership at between 2,000 and 3,000.Along with the Lopez case, there is an ongoing investigation into a 2008 kidnapping case in which Martine Boublil, a 48-year-old Frenchwoman, is said to have been found being held, half naked, on a vermin-infested mattress in a house in Sardinia. She filed a complaint saying that her brother \u2013 an ex-doctor and prominent Scientologist \u2013 had kidnapped her, trying to treat her psychological problems himself. The Church of Scientology and Boublil's brother, Claude, denies she was kidnapped and described the case\u00a0as a \"tragic family affair\" that the media had sought to exploit.But this May the most serious fraud trial that the Church of Scientology has faced anywhere in\u00a0the world opened in Paris. Not only were six important French Scientologists placed in the dock for organised fraud and illegally practising as pharmacists \u2013 for selling vitamins classed as medication in France \u2013 but, for the first time, the\u00a0Church itself was accused of organised fraud. In a historic move, the state prosecutor requested that the judges dismantle and dissolve Paris's two\u00a0flagship Scientology premises: the Celebrity Centre and its bookshop in the capital. The verdict is due at the end of October, and the world\u00a0is\u00a0watching. If the Paris centres are shut, it\u00a0will limit\u00a0Scientology's operations in France and may\u00a0have implications elsewhere.In May, Aude-Claire Malton, a former hotel housekeeper, took the stand against the Church of Scientology at the Palais de Justice in Paris. She\u00a0described how, depressed after a relationship failed, she met a group of Scientologists at a Metro exit and filled in their personality test questionnaire. A\u00a0few days later, the Church of Scientology called her to fix an appointment at the Celebrity Centre. \"They told me I was in a\u00a0very uneven state, and that they could help me by giving me some courses.\" The first course cost \u20ac20, but immediately afterwards she was offered a \"package\" of several sessions for \u20ac4,800. She emptied several savings accounts, her life insurance policy, and took out a loan to pay for more courses on the advice of her Scientology personal financial adviser.Asked by the judge how she could have spent so much, she said: \"You have to understand, you're in the brouhaha of the Scientology Centre where everyone repeats to you: 'You must continue, you're making progress, you're going to\u00a0be able to better yourself, all this is for you.' \"One of the products she spent money on was a full-time 10-day \"purification\" treatment, where she would take vitamins, then go for a run, then undertake two, three or four hours of sauna. She said she lost four kilos and emerged exhausted. \"I\u00a0had to do it if I wanted to progress,\" she said.The judge read out a document described as Malton's Scientology programme: \"Move house, get money for life insurance, pay back \u20ac16,000, resign.\" She said the organisation wanted her to work for them at the Celebrity Centre, where she would get courses as part of her pay. They wanted her to move into shared accommodation to cut her costs. But her family and ex-boyfriend stepped in and persuaded her to quit Scientology.Summing up, the French state prosecutor slammed a \"universe of secret rules\" and deliberate, planned, fraudulent manoeuvres. She criticised the movement's personality tests and electrometers, which she said were designed to impress and deceive members.When the verdict is handed down in October, it may not only see the dissolution of Scientology's major Paris branches, but fines of \u20ac4m and hefty sentences levelled against six individuals, among them Alain Rosenberg, the director general of Paris's Celebrity Centre and one of the select few Scientologists in France who have attained the church's highest grade of clarity and enlightenment. He denied the prosecution's charges that Scientology was a business that planned to ensnare new members to defraud them. \"I'm a\u00a0man of the church and not a director general of\u00a0a business,\" he said. He defined purification treatments, electrometers and courses in Ron Hubbard's book Dianetics as \"religious services\", arguing that \"spiritual elevation\" had no price.Defence lawyers said none of the individuals on\u00a0trial had made a cent and had acted \"out of religious conviction\". Scientology's barrister Patrick Maisonneuve argued that while other countries had recognised Scientology as a\u00a0religion, France was intent on \"burning Ron Hubbard's books in the courtyard of the Holy Chapel as the international community watches\u00a0in horror\".Just before the fraud trial began, pianist and teacher Alain Stoffen stoked the controversy surrounding Scientology in France with his book Voyage To The Heart Of Scientology. It tells the story of his \"descent to hell\" during more than a\u00a0decade as a\u00a0member of the organisation.A tall, intense man, Stoffen, 48, sits in his modest flat on the edge of Paris and describes an idyllic upbringing in Brussels, during which he decided he wanted to be a musician, performer, composer \u2013 \"an artist\". At 24, he took a piano teaching job in a Paris music school, which he says was run as a\u00a0recruiting ground by Scientologists. Inspired by the fact that his jazz hero, Chick Corea, was a\u00a0Scientologist, he plunged into Hubbard's teachings. His initial communication courses at the Celebrity Centre helped Stoffen overcome his shyness and perform better on stage. \"The results were phenomenal, tangible, concrete.\"He says it's wrong to assume people who join Scientology are \"weak\". \"The people who sign up have a healthy approach, they want to go forward in life, achieve their projects and ambitions.\" At the Celebrity Centre, he felt he was surrounded by an elite membership from the worlds of art and business. But Stoffen became tortured by his struggle to progress to higher levels of \"clarity\" and the constant scraping for money to pay for courses. \"You would do everything to pay that sum, it was\u00a0a question of life and death for us, spiritual life or\u00a0death,\" he says.\"When you're on the inside, the illusion is perfect. I was convinced that I was thinking for myself, that I became more authentic, that no one\u00a0ran my life. But the reverse was happening. Without realising, I had been subjected to a\u00a0real depersonalisation process, a\u00a0destructuring, so I\u00a0had become a type of clone. The aim is to destroy, destabilise the person, make them vulnerable, weaken them on a\u00a0psychological level\u00a0and place them in a state of dependence.\"In 15 years, Stoffen says he spent \u20ac45,000 on\u00a0Scientology courses and books which, he\u00a0suggests, was not a lot. \"Others spent well\u00a0over\u00a0\u20ac300,000.\"He married and had a child with another Scientologist, but after a painful break-up \u2013 \"managed\", he claims, by the organisation \u2013 he discovered what he called his secret \"personal dossier\". It was, he says, 150 pages long and contained minute details of his personal life, the workings of his divorce and custody of his child, and a programme detailing how to \"deal\" with him and get more money from him. \"It was a\u00a0horrible discovery. I vomited all night.\" He left in 2001 and filed a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for extortion, fraud, blackmail and illegally practising as pharmacists. In September 2006, an investigating judge dismissed the case, but in May 2007 that decision was overturned by an appeals court. A judicial investigation has been reopened and Stoffen will meet investigating magistrates in September as he waits for the next step in his case.\"When you leave Scientology, you're totally broken,\" he says, \"as a human being, financially, morally. Your own identity is the result of indoctrination aimed at destroying your critical faculties. When you leave, the feeling of shame and guilt is enormous. It's unbearable.\"Agn\u00e8s Bron, of the French Church of Scientology's public affairs department, says that \"false allegations against Scientology with no proof\" mainly come from \"apostates\" who have left the\u00a0religion, and that the credibility of apostates must be treated with caution. She says Stoffen's \"completely deformed image of Scientology\" has been used by the media, and the dossier he claims to have discovered had not been secret at all, because all personal dossiers can be consulted by\u00a0members. For Bron, the Stoffen case, the Paris fraud trial, the Lopez preliminary investigation and other high-profile complaints against Scientology are indicative of \"a climate of discrimination\" and \"orchestrated campaigns\" against Scientology in France, pushed by \"extremist and antireligious pressure groups\". Among those groups she includes the French government agency Miviludes, set up to observe and monitor whether sects and cults break the law or threaten public health.In a government office attached to the prime minister's residence on Paris's Left Bank, Georges Fenech, magistrate and former MP for president Nicolas Sarkozy's UMP party, sits leafing through his collection of files marked Scientology. As president of Miviludes, Fenech's official mission is to monitor every possible type of behaviour by a sect or cult that might fall outside the law. There are hundreds of small groups being studied from his office, but Fenech is best known as Scientology's number one enemy. In 1997, he was the investigating judge who instructed a major court case against Scientologists in Lyon. A young father, crippled with debts to the organisation, had killed himself by jumping from a 12th-floor window. In court, convictions were obtained for\u00a0manslaughter and fraud. To Scientologists, Fenech is on a \"crusade\" against the Church of Scientology, running a sustained press campaign against them and leading a state-sponsored witch-hunt. \"It's rather flattering,\" he smiles. \"It\u00a0proves that the work we do here is efficient.\"France, with its republican tradition of the separation of church and state, takes the behaviour of sects and cults seriously \u2013 perhaps because it has been shaken by a number of major tragedies in recent history, including the mass suicide of members of the cult Order of the Solar Temple.But a deep scepticism of sects is not confined to government officials. There was a media outcry in 2004 when Sarkozy, then minister for finance, was suspected of favouring Scientology after his very public meeting with Tom Cruise. Another followed last year when one of his top advisers, Emanuelle Mignon, said the state's attitude to Scientology was questionable. Fenech\u00a0insists: \"Nicolas Sarkozy met Tom Cruise, the international film star, not as the ambassador for Scientology. The meeting was never a\u00a0question of Scientology.\" He says the president is \"firm\" on the issue of sects, and Mignon has given assurances that her comments were taken out\u00a0of\u00a0context.The Church of Scientology argues that secular France is persecuting it for its beliefs as a\u00a0\"new religion\". Fenech disagrees. \"For France, Scientology is a vast commercial enterprise hiding behind a religious mask,\" he says. \"This is not something against the Ron Hubbardian doctrine, or beliefs about intergalactic happenings thousands of years ago. What we're interested in is that people are dragged into this movement, lose their liberty, autonomy and sometimes their life.\" He says France protects freedom of religion, \"but if a law is being broken, the state will go there. Religion isn't a protection against the law.\"Back in Normandy, Gwen Le Berre says he has no interest in any kind of campaign against Scientology \u2013 he just wants justice and the truth about his mother. Unable to close the chapter on their grief, the family still pore over what they know of Lopez's life as a Scientologist: how she joined every possible Scientology group in Paris, how she took her eight-year-old daughter to a\u00a0children's Scientology course and her young son to Scientology summer revision sessions, before her ex-husband insisted she stopped talking to the children about the movement until they were 18. \"When she died, I didn't know much about Scientology. It was the last thing that came to mind,\" her son says. \"If, by bringing a\u00a0case, we can open people's eyes, it will have been worth it.\"", "tags": ["Scientology", "France", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Scientology: crisis in France"},{"date": "2009-09-28T14:16:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Roman Polanski, who hasn't set foot in Britain since 1978 for fear of extradition, was arrested yesterday in Zurich by the Swiss police for an assault he pleaded guilty to in 1977. The irony is that such an event, the kind he has dreaded for 32 years, should take place in a country where he owns a chalet and spends many weeks every year. The blow came unexpectedly; the news was a shock to many.A shock, not because the man is innocent (the case is summarised here) but because since last year, thanks to a remarkable American documentary by investigative film-maker Marina Zenovich called Roman Polanski: Wanted and Desired, we now know that Roman Polanski was treated unfairly by the judge Laurence Rittenband and that he was the victim of gross misconduct from the Los Angeles court. Even the victim's lawyer implies at the end of the documentary that he would have done the same that Polanski did \u2013 jump bail and take the first plane to Paris to avoid a lengthier prison sentence. One detail of importance: by the time he fled the US, he had already served a short time in prison.It is precisely in the light of the new evidence revealed by this documentary that Roman Polanski's lawyers asked the US justice department a few months ago for the case to be closed. While recognising the presence of new elements in the dossier and acknowledging the \"substantial misconduct \" of Judge Rittenband, the Los Angeles court in charge of the dossier declared the case couldn't be closed while Polanski was still technically a fugitive. That decision is still being appealed by Polanski's lawyers as I write.It's in this context, then, that it's shocking to many cinephiles and to the French in particular that the 76-year-old Polanski should be arrested. Since yesterday, reactions in favour of the film director have poured forth from across the political and cultural spectrum, including of course that of the culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterrand, who did not mince his words. He labelled the arrest \"senseless\" and \"outrageous\" nature of such arrest which comes from the \"darker side of America, the one that scares us all.\" The Cannes film festival is spearheading a campaign to free Polanski and the French foreign minister Bernard Kouchner has contacted US secretary of state Hilary Clinton to ask for a presidential pardon. \"We're calling on every film-maker we can to help fix this terrible situation,\" the American producer Harvey Weinstein said. Sources close to Weinstein said the mogul would reach out to Hollywood to lobby against any move to bring Polanski to the US, where he could face up to 50 years in jail.There is a feeling in France that the US justice department is acting out some kind of prudish revenge against a great talent who never abided by American rules even when he was the most celebrated director in Hollywood.Many commenters have simply used the term 'rape' in relation to RomanPolanski's 1977 conviction. The offence he pleaded guilty to is oftendescribed as 'statutory rape' but more precisely as 'unlawful sexualintercourse with a minor'.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Switzerland", "Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Polanski's arrest has shocked France | Agnes Poirier"},{"date": "2009-08-28T23:10:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "In a small Normandy village, surrounded by wheat fields, Gwen Le Berre keeps a\u00a0Scientology \"electrometer\" machine in his bedroom. He opens the large green briefcase and peers at the machine inside. It looks like a lie-detector from an\u00a0old TV cop show and Le Berre doesn't really understand how it works \u2013 he just knows it's a key piece of kit for the Church of Scientology.Le Berre, 21, keeps the machine as a memento of his mother's life. Four days before Christmas 2006, Gloria Lopez, a 47-year-old secretary, tidied her kitchen, hung out her washing, left her dull, suburban apartment overlooking the railway in Colombes, west of Paris, and walked the 30 metres out on to the tracks. She stood with her arms outstretched, smiling at the driver of the oncoming commuter train. He couldn't stop in time.Lopez had left Spain in the 80s to marry Pascal Le Berre, a French secondary school teacher. The couple had two children together in Normandy, but divorced soon afterwards. It was just after the split that Lopez \u2013 who had always been interested in alternative medicine and esoteric ideas \u2013 met some Scientologists and signed up. The church was to become her life. Eventually, she moved to Paris, leaving her two children behind, to be nearer the Scientology Centre.\"When she found herself alone after the divorce, her need for a spiritual search was reawakened,\" Pascal Le Berre says. \"At the start, Scientology gave her confidence, it gave her the illusion she could be stronger than she thought. She saw it as helping the world work better \u2013\u00a0even\u00a0a way of saving the world.\"Gwen Le Berre had been due to visit his mother to give her her Christmas present two days after she killed herself. His elder sister, Mathilde, had\u00a0seen her a few weeks before and, although Lopez had lost weight in recent months,\u00a0she had seemed in good form. They were convinced she would have left a suicide note, and\u00a0went to her apartment, where the shelves were stacked with Scientology books and DVDs, to search for one. Instead, they found a box of documents in which she had handwritten a series of punishing self-appraisals as part of her membership of the Church of Scientology. She wrote of how she owed money to the organisation for courses, was struggling to advance up the path to spiritual enlightenment, really wanted to succeed as a\u00a0Scientologist, and regretted every mistake in her life. \"She even wrote that she had surfed the internet for two minutes beyond her allocated lunch break at work,\" Gwen says.Pascal agrees: \"It was as if everything she tried to do was a failure \u2013 not advancing up the chain of Scientology courses, but also being distant from her children. She felt a\u00a0lot of pain over that.\"Surprised at the lack of bills and other normal financial documents at the flat \u2013 where Lopez often housed Scientologist lodgers, and which other church members regularly visited \u2013 the family wondered if other documents had gone missing or been removed.But after reading her tormented writings, Lopez's children and her ex-husband decided to\u00a0file a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for what they claim is its role in her death. They estimate that in around 10 years as a\u00a0Scientologist, Lopez spent between \u20ac200,000 and \u20ac250,000 on courses and books \u2013 despite her secretary's salary, which was \u20ac2,000 a month at the time of her death. Her family also claim that she was counselled by Scientology financial advisers and decided to sell a property she had inherited in Spain, freeing up capital for more courses. \"They stole my mother,\" Gwen says. \"I\u00a0don't feel I knew my mother apart from in her role as a\u00a0Scientologist.\"The police investigation into the Lopez case is just one of a series of investigations and legal cases that has led the Church of Scientology to complain of a \"climate of hatred\" and a state-sponsored \"inquisition\" against them in France. Together they have the potential to threaten Scientology's very survival in France and undermine it elsewhere. This autumn, not only could its two flagship centres in France be closed down, but the church itself could be convicted of\u00a0\"organised fraud\".Founded in California in the 50s by the flamboyant science fiction author, L Ron Hubbard, the Church of Scientology claims to offer spiritual self-improvement based on his writings. From the beginning it attracted controversy. It vehemently opposes conventional psychiatry, instead favouring Hubbard's philosophy of mental health, known as Dianetics. This teaches that a person's spirit can be cleared of negative experiences and encourages members to progress up \"The Bridge to Total Freedom\" through a complex \"auditing\" process, until they reach the most advanced level of spiritual \"clarity\". The movement is fiercely protective of copyright over its teachings and its central idea that humans are descended from Thetans \u2013 an exiled race from another planet. Hollywood members include Tom Cruise and John Travolta, and Scientology now considers itself to be one of the fastest-growing new religions in the world, claiming more than 7,900 churches, missions and groups in 164 countries.This year the movement was hit by scandal in Florida when senior members defected and alleged routine physical attacks by the church's leader, David Miscavige \u2013 allegations the church denies. But it is France that is threatening to become the organisation's nemesis. Scientology has no religious status in France, and in the 90s it\u00a0was included in a government inquiry's list of sects. The Church of Scientology says it has six churches and six missions in France, totalling 45,000 members. The French government puts the membership at between 2,000 and 3,000.Along with the Lopez case, there is an ongoing investigation into a 2008 kidnapping case in which Martine Boublil, a 48-year-old Frenchwoman, is said to have been found being held, half naked, on a vermin-infested mattress in a house in Sardinia. She filed a complaint saying that her brother \u2013 an ex-doctor and prominent Scientologist \u2013 had kidnapped her, trying to treat her psychological problems himself. The Church of Scientology and Boublil's brother, Claude, denies she was kidnapped and described the case\u00a0as a \"tragic family affair\" that the media had sought to exploit.But this May the most serious fraud trial that the Church of Scientology has faced anywhere in\u00a0the world opened in Paris. Not only were six important French Scientologists placed in the dock for organised fraud and illegally practising as pharmacists \u2013 for selling vitamins classed as medication in France \u2013 but, for the first time, the\u00a0Church itself was accused of organised fraud. In a historic move, the state prosecutor requested that the judges dismantle and dissolve Paris's two\u00a0flagship Scientology premises: the Celebrity Centre and its bookshop in the capital. The verdict is due at the end of October, and the world\u00a0is\u00a0watching. If the Paris centres are shut, it\u00a0will limit\u00a0Scientology's operations in France and may\u00a0have implications elsewhere.In May, Aude-Claire Malton, a former hotel housekeeper, took the stand against the Church of Scientology at the Palais de Justice in Paris. She\u00a0described how, depressed after a relationship failed, she met a group of Scientologists at a Metro exit and filled in their personality test questionnaire. A\u00a0few days later, the Church of Scientology called her to fix an appointment at the Celebrity Centre. \"They told me I was in a\u00a0very uneven state, and that they could help me by giving me some courses.\" The first course cost \u20ac20, but immediately afterwards she was offered a \"package\" of several sessions for \u20ac4,800. She emptied several savings accounts, her life insurance policy, and took out a loan to pay for more courses on the advice of her Scientology personal financial adviser.Asked by the judge how she could have spent so much, she said: \"You have to understand, you're in the brouhaha of the Scientology Centre where everyone repeats to you: 'You must continue, you're making progress, you're going to\u00a0be able to better yourself, all this is for you.' \"One of the products she spent money on was a full-time 10-day \"purification\" treatment, where she would take vitamins, then go for a run, then undertake two, three or four hours of sauna. She said she lost four kilos and emerged exhausted. \"I\u00a0had to do it if I wanted to progress,\" she said.The judge read out a document described as Malton's Scientology programme: \"Move house, get money for life insurance, pay back \u20ac16,000, resign.\" She said the organisation wanted her to work for them at the Celebrity Centre, where she would get courses as part of her pay. They wanted her to move into shared accommodation to cut her costs. But her family and ex-boyfriend stepped in and persuaded her to quit Scientology.Summing up, the French state prosecutor slammed a \"universe of secret rules\" and deliberate, planned, fraudulent manoeuvres. She criticised the movement's personality tests and electrometers, which she said were designed to impress and deceive members.When the verdict is handed down in October, it may not only see the dissolution of Scientology's major Paris branches, but fines of \u20ac4m and hefty sentences levelled against six individuals, among them Alain Rosenberg, the director general of Paris's Celebrity Centre and one of the select few Scientologists in France who have attained the church's highest grade of clarity and enlightenment. He denied the prosecution's charges that Scientology was a business that planned to ensnare new members to defraud them. \"I'm a\u00a0man of the church and not a director general of\u00a0a business,\" he said. He defined purification treatments, electrometers and courses in Ron Hubbard's book Dianetics as \"religious services\", arguing that \"spiritual elevation\" had no price.Defence lawyers said none of the individuals on\u00a0trial had made a cent and had acted \"out of religious conviction\". Scientology's barrister Patrick Maisonneuve argued that while other countries had recognised Scientology as a\u00a0religion, France was intent on \"burning Ron Hubbard's books in the courtyard of the Holy Chapel as the international community watches\u00a0in horror\".Just before the fraud trial began, pianist and teacher Alain Stoffen stoked the controversy surrounding Scientology in France with his book Voyage To The Heart Of Scientology. It tells the story of his \"descent to hell\" during more than a\u00a0decade as a\u00a0member of the organisation.A tall, intense man, Stoffen, 48, sits in his modest flat on the edge of Paris and describes an idyllic upbringing in Brussels, during which he decided he wanted to be a musician, performer, composer \u2013 \"an artist\". At 24, he took a piano teaching job in a Paris music school, which he says was run as a\u00a0recruiting ground by Scientologists. Inspired by the fact that his jazz hero, Chick Corea, was a\u00a0Scientologist, he plunged into Hubbard's teachings. His initial communication courses at the Celebrity Centre helped Stoffen overcome his shyness and perform better on stage. \"The results were phenomenal, tangible, concrete.\"He says it's wrong to assume people who join Scientology are \"weak\". \"The people who sign up have a healthy approach, they want to go forward in life, achieve their projects and ambitions.\" At the Celebrity Centre, he felt he was surrounded by an elite membership from the worlds of art and business. But Stoffen became tortured by his struggle to progress to higher levels of \"clarity\" and the constant scraping for money to pay for courses. \"You would do everything to pay that sum, it was\u00a0a question of life and death for us, spiritual life or\u00a0death,\" he says.\"When you're on the inside, the illusion is perfect. I was convinced that I was thinking for myself, that I became more authentic, that no one\u00a0ran my life. But the reverse was happening. Without realising, I had been subjected to a\u00a0real depersonalisation process, a\u00a0destructuring, so I\u00a0had become a type of clone. The aim is to destroy, destabilise the person, make them vulnerable, weaken them on a\u00a0psychological level\u00a0and place them in a state of dependence.\"In 15 years, Stoffen says he spent \u20ac45,000 on\u00a0Scientology courses and books which, he\u00a0suggests, was not a lot. \"Others spent well\u00a0over\u00a0\u20ac300,000.\"He married and had a child with another Scientologist, but after a painful break-up \u2013 \"managed\", he claims, by the organisation \u2013 he discovered what he called his secret \"personal dossier\". It was, he says, 150 pages long and contained minute details of his personal life, the workings of his divorce and custody of his child, and a programme detailing how to \"deal\" with him and get more money from him. \"It was a\u00a0horrible discovery. I vomited all night.\" He left in 2001 and filed a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for extortion, fraud, blackmail and illegally practising as pharmacists. In September 2006, an investigating judge dismissed the case, but in May 2007 that decision was overturned by an appeals court. A judicial investigation has been reopened and Stoffen will meet investigating magistrates in September as he waits for the next step in his case.\"When you leave Scientology, you're totally broken,\" he says, \"as a human being, financially, morally. Your own identity is the result of indoctrination aimed at destroying your critical faculties. When you leave, the feeling of shame and guilt is enormous. It's unbearable.\"Agn\u00e8s Bron, of the French Church of Scientology's public affairs department, says that \"false allegations against Scientology with no proof\" mainly come from \"apostates\" who have left the\u00a0religion, and that the credibility of apostates must be treated with caution. She says Stoffen's \"completely deformed image of Scientology\" has been used by the media, and the dossier he claims to have discovered had not been secret at all, because all personal dossiers can be consulted by\u00a0members. For Bron, the Stoffen case, the Paris fraud trial, the Lopez preliminary investigation and other high-profile complaints against Scientology are indicative of \"a climate of discrimination\" and \"orchestrated campaigns\" against Scientology in France, pushed by \"extremist and antireligious pressure groups\". Among those groups she includes the French government agency Miviludes, set up to observe and monitor whether sects and cults break the law or threaten public health.In a government office attached to the prime minister's residence on Paris's Left Bank, Georges Fenech, magistrate and former MP for president Nicolas Sarkozy's UMP party, sits leafing through his collection of files marked Scientology. As president of Miviludes, Fenech's official mission is to monitor every possible type of behaviour by a sect or cult that might fall outside the law. There are hundreds of small groups being studied from his office, but Fenech is best known as Scientology's number one enemy. In 1997, he was the investigating judge who instructed a major court case against Scientologists in Lyon. A young father, crippled with debts to the organisation, had killed himself by jumping from a 12th-floor window. In court, convictions were obtained for\u00a0manslaughter and fraud. To Scientologists, Fenech is on a \"crusade\" against the Church of Scientology, running a sustained press campaign against them and leading a state-sponsored witch-hunt. \"It's rather flattering,\" he smiles. \"It\u00a0proves that the work we do here is efficient.\"France, with its republican tradition of the separation of church and state, takes the behaviour of sects and cults seriously \u2013 perhaps because it has been shaken by a number of major tragedies in recent history, including the mass suicide of members of the cult Order of the Solar Temple.But a deep scepticism of sects is not confined to government officials. There was a media outcry in 2004 when Sarkozy, then minister for finance, was suspected of favouring Scientology after his very public meeting with Tom Cruise. Another followed last year when one of his top advisers, Emanuelle Mignon, said the state's attitude to Scientology was questionable. Fenech\u00a0insists: \"Nicolas Sarkozy met Tom Cruise, the international film star, not as the ambassador for Scientology. The meeting was never a\u00a0question of Scientology.\" He says the president is \"firm\" on the issue of sects, and Mignon has given assurances that her comments were taken out\u00a0of\u00a0context.The Church of Scientology argues that secular France is persecuting it for its beliefs as a\u00a0\"new religion\". Fenech disagrees. \"For France, Scientology is a vast commercial enterprise hiding behind a religious mask,\" he says. \"This is not something against the Ron Hubbardian doctrine, or beliefs about intergalactic happenings thousands of years ago. What we're interested in is that people are dragged into this movement, lose their liberty, autonomy and sometimes their life.\" He says France protects freedom of religion, \"but if a law is being broken, the state will go there. Religion isn't a protection against the law.\"Back in Normandy, Gwen Le Berre says he has no interest in any kind of campaign against Scientology \u2013 he just wants justice and the truth about his mother. Unable to close the chapter on their grief, the family still pore over what they know of Lopez's life as a Scientologist: how she joined every possible Scientology group in Paris, how she took her eight-year-old daughter to a\u00a0children's Scientology course and her young son to Scientology summer revision sessions, before her ex-husband insisted she stopped talking to the children about the movement until they were 18. \"When she died, I didn't know much about Scientology. It was the last thing that came to mind,\" her son says. \"If, by bringing a\u00a0case, we can open people's eyes, it will have been worth it.\"", "tags": ["Scientology", "France", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Scientology: crisis in France"},{"date": "2009-09-28T14:16:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Roman Polanski, who hasn't set foot in Britain since 1978 for fear of extradition, was arrested yesterday in Zurich by the Swiss police for an assault he pleaded guilty to in 1977. The irony is that such an event, the kind he has dreaded for 32 years, should take place in a country where he owns a chalet and spends many weeks every year. The blow came unexpectedly; the news was a shock to many.A shock, not because the man is innocent (the case is summarised here) but because since last year, thanks to a remarkable American documentary by investigative film-maker Marina Zenovich called Roman Polanski: Wanted and Desired, we now know that Roman Polanski was treated unfairly by the judge Laurence Rittenband and that he was the victim of gross misconduct from the Los Angeles court. Even the victim's lawyer implies at the end of the documentary that he would have done the same that Polanski did \u2013 jump bail and take the first plane to Paris to avoid a lengthier prison sentence. One detail of importance: by the time he fled the US, he had already served a short time in prison.It is precisely in the light of the new evidence revealed by this documentary that Roman Polanski's lawyers asked the US justice department a few months ago for the case to be closed. While recognising the presence of new elements in the dossier and acknowledging the \"substantial misconduct \" of Judge Rittenband, the Los Angeles court in charge of the dossier declared the case couldn't be closed while Polanski was still technically a fugitive. That decision is still being appealed by Polanski's lawyers as I write.It's in this context, then, that it's shocking to many cinephiles and to the French in particular that the 76-year-old Polanski should be arrested. Since yesterday, reactions in favour of the film director have poured forth from across the political and cultural spectrum, including of course that of the culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterrand, who did not mince his words. He labelled the arrest \"senseless\" and \"outrageous\" nature of such arrest which comes from the \"darker side of America, the one that scares us all.\" The Cannes film festival is spearheading a campaign to free Polanski and the French foreign minister Bernard Kouchner has contacted US secretary of state Hilary Clinton to ask for a presidential pardon. \"We're calling on every film-maker we can to help fix this terrible situation,\" the American producer Harvey Weinstein said. Sources close to Weinstein said the mogul would reach out to Hollywood to lobby against any move to bring Polanski to the US, where he could face up to 50 years in jail.There is a feeling in France that the US justice department is acting out some kind of prudish revenge against a great talent who never abided by American rules even when he was the most celebrated director in Hollywood.Many commenters have simply used the term 'rape' in relation to RomanPolanski's 1977 conviction. The offence he pleaded guilty to is oftendescribed as 'statutory rape' but more precisely as 'unlawful sexualintercourse with a minor'.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Switzerland", "Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Polanski's arrest has shocked France | Agnes Poirier"},{"date": "2009-07-04T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "I spend my holidays every year in La Loz\u00e8re in southern France. It's not easy to get to \u2013 there are no direct fast trains and no airport \u2013 but that protects the character of the area and there are lots of things to do. One of the major draws of the d\u00e9partment is nature; it's the last relatively untouched great expanse in France and it contains the Causses (limestone plateaux) which are almost completely uninhabited and very wild.Because there's so much forest, the area is very rich in bird life. It's a place where the eagle is king and there are many different birds of prey. If you want to see animals, there's a park full of wolves that was established by a wolf fanatic in a village called Sainte Lucie close to Marvejols. And there are wild horses that live freely on the Causses. There are also beautiful hikes that can stretch over several days, and you can do treks on horseback. It's also one of the French d\u00e9partments most reputed for fly-fishing. It's for real enthusiasts because the rivers are difficult to fish \u2013 but there are great rewards if you can do it. Many of the larger villages and small towns are extremely attractive. One of the prettiest is Ch\u00e2teauneuf de Randon (cantonchateauneufderandon.fr), which is of particular significance to British visitors because it is where the 14th-century warrior Bertrand du Guesclin repelled the English army during the Hundred Years War. The village is completely medieval and is situated on a small hill which provides a glorious view over the surrounding area. The tourist office organises guided visits.There may not be many Michelin-starred restaurants in the region but there are plenty of terrific places to eat: rustic places with honest food and excellent prices. You're not far from the area where Roquefort cheese is produced and there's Tomme de Loz\u00e8re, a big round cheese made from cow's milk which, for my money, is the best cheese in France.Jean-Pierre Chanial is travel editor of Le Figaro.\u2022 How to do it La Loz\u00e8re (lozere-uk.com) is 192km from N\u00eemes. Fly from London Luton or Liverpool to N\u00eemes with Ryanair (ryanair.com) and hire a car through Auto Europe (auto-europe.co.uk). Or, take Euro-star from London St Pancras to Paris, then take a train (changing at Clermond-Ferrand) to Langogne in the heart of La Loz\u00e8re. From \u00a3136 through Rail Europe (0844 848 4070; raileurope.co.uk).Aveyron, in the Midi-Pyrenees region, is where I was born and where I learnt to cook. A few English people have discovered it but, compared with places like Provence, it's a hidden gem. Cuisine is part of the culture there because you have everything you need for cooking. It's a farming region, very green and similar to the most beautiful parts of the British countryside. There are lots of specialities: wine, cheese and meat.My favourite restaurant in the north of the region is Bras, in Laguiole on the Aubrac plateau (00 33 5 6551 1820; michel-bras.com). It's run by Michel Bras, a chef quite unlike any other, who strikes a balance between the most modern styles of cooking and those rooted in the history of the region. One of his specialities is gargouillou \u2013 an assortment of baby vegetables, herbs and flowers from the area, cooked in a buttery sauce. He also has a dish called ombre et lumi\u00e8re (light and shade) which is fish cooked with olives. It's absolutely divine; you have to try that.There's a fantastic market every Saturday morning in Rodez, where I was born. It's in the town square just behind the cathedral and people come from across the region to sell their produce. There are little cafes all around the square where you can sit and relax.I learnt my trade at the Restaurant du Vieux Pont in Belcastel, a historic village in the centre of the region (00 33 5 6564 5229; hotelbelcastel.com). Run by two sisters, it has a Michelin star and serves food from the region cooked with real sensitivity and subtlety. It was once an auberge run by their mother, where all the local labourers used to eat. It has expanded since then but has retained that spirit.If you want to work up an appetite, there are some beautiful lakes in the region such as Lac de Pareloup, where you can go boating, windsurfing or jet skiing, or just bathe. It's really a region where you have everything; great food, markets, a lake and lots of beautiful little medieval villages.Cyril Lignac runs Le Quinzieme Cuisine Attitude in Paris (cyrillignac.com).\u2022 How to do it Fly from London Stansted to Rodez (ot-rodez.fr) with Ryanair (ryanair.com), then hire a car through Avis (avis.co.uk).  La Route du Rock festival takes place in Brittany at a beautiful site in Saint-Malo, a fortified town surrounded by beaches and the sea. And it's not far from the village of Cancale, which is one of the best places in France for eating oysters, so it's great for anyone who wants to combine the best of France with music. It is a completely independent festival and is one for real music aficionados. There's a good mix of big names \u2013 they've had the Cure, Franz Ferdinand and Pulp in the past \u2013 and less well-known bands. People come to see the main bands but also to discover new ones.The main concerts take place in the evening at an 18th-century fort, but there are also free concerts on one of the beaches in Saint-Malo. So you can get up late and wander down to the beach to listen to music and go for a dip at the same time. I remember the French artist Camille playing a gig with Nouvelle Vague on the beach and midway through the song she ran out to the sea, plunged in, came back and carried on. The organisers also put on beach football tournaments involving artists, journalists and fans.It's always a really convivial atmosphere \u2013 lots of Bretons but also lots of other French people \u2013 all having a good time. I have been most years for the past 10 years. The weather can be a bit variable but the worst is that it's going to be a little bit cold \u2013 there's no risk of mud. I saw the New York band Interpol in the rain once there and it was magical.Another good bet is the Garden Nef Party (17-18 July; garden-nef-party.com), which takes place at Angoul\u00eame, a historic town surrounded by ramparts. It's only been going a few years and is not expensive. The festival site is opposite the town on a hill, so you have this stunning view over Angoul\u00eame.Cecile Revenu works for Les Inrockuptibles, the French equivalent of NME. \u2022 How to do it Route de Rock (laroutedurock.com) takes place on 14-16 August this year and features My Bloody Valentine, the Kills and Simian Mobile Disco. Tickets for the three days cost \u00a494. Take the overnight ferry from Portsmouth to Saint-Malo with Brittany Ferries (0871 244 0744; brittany-ferries.co.uk) from \u00a3172 return for a car and two adults. See also saint-malo-tourisme.com.Arles is a very beautiful town with a strong sense of its cultural identity. The festival of photography (rencontres-arles.com), which takes place from July to September, is quite well known but it's fantastic. The whole city is taken over by photography; churches, restaurants, even private homes are all invaded by the artists. And the old SNCF train station is transformed into a massive space for installations and graphics.Fashion is very well represented, as quite a lot of well-known fashion photographers, such as Peter Lindbergh, exhibit. There's a fantastic museum \u2013 Mus\u00e9e Arlatan on rue de la Republique (00 33 4 9093 5811) \u2013 where you can find costumes from the 16th and 17th centuries. Arles has seen lots of immigration and there is a strong gypsy influence. It's a very interesting place, with a real diversity of people \u2013 a lot of stars live in the area \u2013 and it's quite glamorous in the summer.The trendiest place to stay is the Grand Hotel Nord-Pinus (00 33 4 9093 4444; nord-pinus.com). It's where the bullfighters used to prepare before going to the arena. You can also go there to eat. They serve a local speciality \u2013 a rago\u00fbt of bull meat with spices and a heavy wine sauce. I don't like it very much but it is very traditional and you should at least try it. There are lots of great coffee shops, and I'd recommend the H\u00f4tel de la Poste on rue Moli\u00e8re for a drink \u2013 it has a lovely terrace with trees and it's very traditional.A place that is great fun at night is El Patio (00 33 4 9049 5176; patiodecamargue.com), a restaurant owned by one of the members of the Gypsy Kings. It's like a big hacienda: you eat outside and there are musical performances and entertainment in the style of a 19th-century circus. It's lots of fun and great for children.Alexis Mabille has created dresses for Keira Knightley and Carla Bruni and designs jewellery for Yves Saint Laurent.\u2022 How to do it Arles (arlestourisme.com) is 32kms from N\u00eemes. Fly from London Luton or Liverpool to N\u00eemes with Ryanair (ryanair.com), then hire a car through Auto Europe (auto-europe.co.uk).Hossegor is about half an hour from Biarritz in the Pays Basque, and 40 minutes from the Spanish border. Some of the best surfers in France are from around the area. It hosts international surfing competitions, so the waves are first-class, and for an experienced surfer there's every type of wave to have fun. Close to the shore you get very powerful ones, which are good for doing barrels, and further out there are long point breaks where you can do turns. There are lots of clubs where you can hire surf boards and take lessons. If you want to learn, I'd recommend the summer because the waves are smaller.People from all over the world come to see the famous waves but it's not just a place for surfers: the beaches are really nice and it's a great place to sunbathe. It's becoming the destination for people who like beach holidays, but it's a pretty mellow place. Fifteen minutes from the city, you can be in the surrounding pine forests with absolutely no one around. There are routes for cycling, walking and running through the forests. And you can go through the forests and across the sand dunes to get into the ocean in places which are deserted. Those are the coolest spots.In terms of places to stay, there's something for everyone. There are lots of cool campsites with a relaxed atmosphere and people from all over having fun. Or there are big houses with swimming pools to rent just next to the beach. As for nightlife, there's a part of Hossegor called La Centrale where all the bars are. If you ask for a good place to party, everyone will tell you the same thing: Rockfood (rockfoodhossegor.com). It's a restaurant and bar right on the beach decorated with surfboards signed by the world's best surfers, and after 11pm it turns into a club. No one actually holds parties at night on the beach itself though; everyone is very eco-conscious and they try to preserve this paradise.Jeremy Flores, 21, is the wunderkind of French surfing and the youngest-ever competitor in the ASP (Association of Surfing Professionals) World Tour.\u2022 How to do it Hossegor (hossegor.fr) is 41km from Biarritz. Fly from Gatwick or Bristol to Biarritz with Easyjet (easyjet.com), then hire a car through Carrentals.co.uk (carrentals.co.uk).I spent three years in Lyon in the early 90s and the more time I spent there, the more I discovered. It may not be thought of as a tourist town but it has beautiful architectural monuments, a lovely setting and lots of cultural heritage. Two historic parts of the city are great to wander around. La Croix Rousse is the old silk-weaving quarter, where the artisans of Lyon had beautiful apartments and workshops. It has a lot of historical charm, with a flavour of 19th century industry.The Saint-Jean quarter is another wonderfully historic area in the west of the city. It can be a bit touristy so you have to go as far west and upwards as possible to lose yourself in the little alleyways. Up there, it's inaccessible to cars so you almost have the impression of being in the country. There's a real sense of peace and calm.Lyon has a great mix of traditional and modern architecture. The opera house on the main square was restored by the top French architect Jean Nouvel. I think it's beautiful, very contemporary but retaining a sense of history. The interior is shiny and glossy \u2013 Nouvel's style in the 80s \u2013 and magnificent. I also love the Cit\u00e9 Internationale de Renzo Piano, a massive complex on the banks of the Rh\u00f4ne with hotels, conference centres, a museum and a casino.Another really notable aspect of architecture in Lyon is the Art Deco skyscrapers in Villeurbanne. They were built in the 30s \u2013 the first in France \u2013 and are incredible. People live there but if you're feeling adventurous you can ask if they'll let you in. Lots of the inhabitants are aware how significant their buildings are and are quite willing to let you in to climb up the inside. Manuelle Gautrand's award-winning projects have included the Centre for Contemporary Music in Paris and the Lille Modern Art Museum.\u2022 How to do it Take the Eurostar from London St Pancras to Lyon (via Paris) through Rail Europe (as before) from \u00a399 return. See also lyon-france.com.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Rail travel", "Paris holidays", "Lyon holidays", "Arles holidays", "Cultural trips", "Restaurants", "Hotels", "Shopping trips", "Walking holidays", "Cycling holidays", "Flights", "Surfing holidays", "Travel"], "title": "France by the French"},{"date": "2009-08-28T23:10:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "In a small Normandy village, surrounded by wheat fields, Gwen Le Berre keeps a\u00a0Scientology \"electrometer\" machine in his bedroom. He opens the large green briefcase and peers at the machine inside. It looks like a lie-detector from an\u00a0old TV cop show and Le Berre doesn't really understand how it works \u2013 he just knows it's a key piece of kit for the Church of Scientology.Le Berre, 21, keeps the machine as a memento of his mother's life. Four days before Christmas 2006, Gloria Lopez, a 47-year-old secretary, tidied her kitchen, hung out her washing, left her dull, suburban apartment overlooking the railway in Colombes, west of Paris, and walked the 30 metres out on to the tracks. She stood with her arms outstretched, smiling at the driver of the oncoming commuter train. He couldn't stop in time.Lopez had left Spain in the 80s to marry Pascal Le Berre, a French secondary school teacher. The couple had two children together in Normandy, but divorced soon afterwards. It was just after the split that Lopez \u2013 who had always been interested in alternative medicine and esoteric ideas \u2013 met some Scientologists and signed up. The church was to become her life. Eventually, she moved to Paris, leaving her two children behind, to be nearer the Scientology Centre.\"When she found herself alone after the divorce, her need for a spiritual search was reawakened,\" Pascal Le Berre says. \"At the start, Scientology gave her confidence, it gave her the illusion she could be stronger than she thought. She saw it as helping the world work better \u2013\u00a0even\u00a0a way of saving the world.\"Gwen Le Berre had been due to visit his mother to give her her Christmas present two days after she killed herself. His elder sister, Mathilde, had\u00a0seen her a few weeks before and, although Lopez had lost weight in recent months,\u00a0she had seemed in good form. They were convinced she would have left a suicide note, and\u00a0went to her apartment, where the shelves were stacked with Scientology books and DVDs, to search for one. Instead, they found a box of documents in which she had handwritten a series of punishing self-appraisals as part of her membership of the Church of Scientology. She wrote of how she owed money to the organisation for courses, was struggling to advance up the path to spiritual enlightenment, really wanted to succeed as a\u00a0Scientologist, and regretted every mistake in her life. \"She even wrote that she had surfed the internet for two minutes beyond her allocated lunch break at work,\" Gwen says.Pascal agrees: \"It was as if everything she tried to do was a failure \u2013 not advancing up the chain of Scientology courses, but also being distant from her children. She felt a\u00a0lot of pain over that.\"Surprised at the lack of bills and other normal financial documents at the flat \u2013 where Lopez often housed Scientologist lodgers, and which other church members regularly visited \u2013 the family wondered if other documents had gone missing or been removed.But after reading her tormented writings, Lopez's children and her ex-husband decided to\u00a0file a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for what they claim is its role in her death. They estimate that in around 10 years as a\u00a0Scientologist, Lopez spent between \u20ac200,000 and \u20ac250,000 on courses and books \u2013 despite her secretary's salary, which was \u20ac2,000 a month at the time of her death. Her family also claim that she was counselled by Scientology financial advisers and decided to sell a property she had inherited in Spain, freeing up capital for more courses. \"They stole my mother,\" Gwen says. \"I\u00a0don't feel I knew my mother apart from in her role as a\u00a0Scientologist.\"The police investigation into the Lopez case is just one of a series of investigations and legal cases that has led the Church of Scientology to complain of a \"climate of hatred\" and a state-sponsored \"inquisition\" against them in France. Together they have the potential to threaten Scientology's very survival in France and undermine it elsewhere. This autumn, not only could its two flagship centres in France be closed down, but the church itself could be convicted of\u00a0\"organised fraud\".Founded in California in the 50s by the flamboyant science fiction author, L Ron Hubbard, the Church of Scientology claims to offer spiritual self-improvement based on his writings. From the beginning it attracted controversy. It vehemently opposes conventional psychiatry, instead favouring Hubbard's philosophy of mental health, known as Dianetics. This teaches that a person's spirit can be cleared of negative experiences and encourages members to progress up \"The Bridge to Total Freedom\" through a complex \"auditing\" process, until they reach the most advanced level of spiritual \"clarity\". The movement is fiercely protective of copyright over its teachings and its central idea that humans are descended from Thetans \u2013 an exiled race from another planet. Hollywood members include Tom Cruise and John Travolta, and Scientology now considers itself to be one of the fastest-growing new religions in the world, claiming more than 7,900 churches, missions and groups in 164 countries.This year the movement was hit by scandal in Florida when senior members defected and alleged routine physical attacks by the church's leader, David Miscavige \u2013 allegations the church denies. But it is France that is threatening to become the organisation's nemesis. Scientology has no religious status in France, and in the 90s it\u00a0was included in a government inquiry's list of sects. The Church of Scientology says it has six churches and six missions in France, totalling 45,000 members. The French government puts the membership at between 2,000 and 3,000.Along with the Lopez case, there is an ongoing investigation into a 2008 kidnapping case in which Martine Boublil, a 48-year-old Frenchwoman, is said to have been found being held, half naked, on a vermin-infested mattress in a house in Sardinia. She filed a complaint saying that her brother \u2013 an ex-doctor and prominent Scientologist \u2013 had kidnapped her, trying to treat her psychological problems himself. The Church of Scientology and Boublil's brother, Claude, denies she was kidnapped and described the case\u00a0as a \"tragic family affair\" that the media had sought to exploit.But this May the most serious fraud trial that the Church of Scientology has faced anywhere in\u00a0the world opened in Paris. Not only were six important French Scientologists placed in the dock for organised fraud and illegally practising as pharmacists \u2013 for selling vitamins classed as medication in France \u2013 but, for the first time, the\u00a0Church itself was accused of organised fraud. In a historic move, the state prosecutor requested that the judges dismantle and dissolve Paris's two\u00a0flagship Scientology premises: the Celebrity Centre and its bookshop in the capital. The verdict is due at the end of October, and the world\u00a0is\u00a0watching. If the Paris centres are shut, it\u00a0will limit\u00a0Scientology's operations in France and may\u00a0have implications elsewhere.In May, Aude-Claire Malton, a former hotel housekeeper, took the stand against the Church of Scientology at the Palais de Justice in Paris. She\u00a0described how, depressed after a relationship failed, she met a group of Scientologists at a Metro exit and filled in their personality test questionnaire. A\u00a0few days later, the Church of Scientology called her to fix an appointment at the Celebrity Centre. \"They told me I was in a\u00a0very uneven state, and that they could help me by giving me some courses.\" The first course cost \u20ac20, but immediately afterwards she was offered a \"package\" of several sessions for \u20ac4,800. She emptied several savings accounts, her life insurance policy, and took out a loan to pay for more courses on the advice of her Scientology personal financial adviser.Asked by the judge how she could have spent so much, she said: \"You have to understand, you're in the brouhaha of the Scientology Centre where everyone repeats to you: 'You must continue, you're making progress, you're going to\u00a0be able to better yourself, all this is for you.' \"One of the products she spent money on was a full-time 10-day \"purification\" treatment, where she would take vitamins, then go for a run, then undertake two, three or four hours of sauna. She said she lost four kilos and emerged exhausted. \"I\u00a0had to do it if I wanted to progress,\" she said.The judge read out a document described as Malton's Scientology programme: \"Move house, get money for life insurance, pay back \u20ac16,000, resign.\" She said the organisation wanted her to work for them at the Celebrity Centre, where she would get courses as part of her pay. They wanted her to move into shared accommodation to cut her costs. But her family and ex-boyfriend stepped in and persuaded her to quit Scientology.Summing up, the French state prosecutor slammed a \"universe of secret rules\" and deliberate, planned, fraudulent manoeuvres. She criticised the movement's personality tests and electrometers, which she said were designed to impress and deceive members.When the verdict is handed down in October, it may not only see the dissolution of Scientology's major Paris branches, but fines of \u20ac4m and hefty sentences levelled against six individuals, among them Alain Rosenberg, the director general of Paris's Celebrity Centre and one of the select few Scientologists in France who have attained the church's highest grade of clarity and enlightenment. He denied the prosecution's charges that Scientology was a business that planned to ensnare new members to defraud them. \"I'm a\u00a0man of the church and not a director general of\u00a0a business,\" he said. He defined purification treatments, electrometers and courses in Ron Hubbard's book Dianetics as \"religious services\", arguing that \"spiritual elevation\" had no price.Defence lawyers said none of the individuals on\u00a0trial had made a cent and had acted \"out of religious conviction\". Scientology's barrister Patrick Maisonneuve argued that while other countries had recognised Scientology as a\u00a0religion, France was intent on \"burning Ron Hubbard's books in the courtyard of the Holy Chapel as the international community watches\u00a0in horror\".Just before the fraud trial began, pianist and teacher Alain Stoffen stoked the controversy surrounding Scientology in France with his book Voyage To The Heart Of Scientology. It tells the story of his \"descent to hell\" during more than a\u00a0decade as a\u00a0member of the organisation.A tall, intense man, Stoffen, 48, sits in his modest flat on the edge of Paris and describes an idyllic upbringing in Brussels, during which he decided he wanted to be a musician, performer, composer \u2013 \"an artist\". At 24, he took a piano teaching job in a Paris music school, which he says was run as a\u00a0recruiting ground by Scientologists. Inspired by the fact that his jazz hero, Chick Corea, was a\u00a0Scientologist, he plunged into Hubbard's teachings. His initial communication courses at the Celebrity Centre helped Stoffen overcome his shyness and perform better on stage. \"The results were phenomenal, tangible, concrete.\"He says it's wrong to assume people who join Scientology are \"weak\". \"The people who sign up have a healthy approach, they want to go forward in life, achieve their projects and ambitions.\" At the Celebrity Centre, he felt he was surrounded by an elite membership from the worlds of art and business. But Stoffen became tortured by his struggle to progress to higher levels of \"clarity\" and the constant scraping for money to pay for courses. \"You would do everything to pay that sum, it was\u00a0a question of life and death for us, spiritual life or\u00a0death,\" he says.\"When you're on the inside, the illusion is perfect. I was convinced that I was thinking for myself, that I became more authentic, that no one\u00a0ran my life. But the reverse was happening. Without realising, I had been subjected to a\u00a0real depersonalisation process, a\u00a0destructuring, so I\u00a0had become a type of clone. The aim is to destroy, destabilise the person, make them vulnerable, weaken them on a\u00a0psychological level\u00a0and place them in a state of dependence.\"In 15 years, Stoffen says he spent \u20ac45,000 on\u00a0Scientology courses and books which, he\u00a0suggests, was not a lot. \"Others spent well\u00a0over\u00a0\u20ac300,000.\"He married and had a child with another Scientologist, but after a painful break-up \u2013 \"managed\", he claims, by the organisation \u2013 he discovered what he called his secret \"personal dossier\". It was, he says, 150 pages long and contained minute details of his personal life, the workings of his divorce and custody of his child, and a programme detailing how to \"deal\" with him and get more money from him. \"It was a\u00a0horrible discovery. I vomited all night.\" He left in 2001 and filed a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for extortion, fraud, blackmail and illegally practising as pharmacists. In September 2006, an investigating judge dismissed the case, but in May 2007 that decision was overturned by an appeals court. A judicial investigation has been reopened and Stoffen will meet investigating magistrates in September as he waits for the next step in his case.\"When you leave Scientology, you're totally broken,\" he says, \"as a human being, financially, morally. Your own identity is the result of indoctrination aimed at destroying your critical faculties. When you leave, the feeling of shame and guilt is enormous. It's unbearable.\"Agn\u00e8s Bron, of the French Church of Scientology's public affairs department, says that \"false allegations against Scientology with no proof\" mainly come from \"apostates\" who have left the\u00a0religion, and that the credibility of apostates must be treated with caution. She says Stoffen's \"completely deformed image of Scientology\" has been used by the media, and the dossier he claims to have discovered had not been secret at all, because all personal dossiers can be consulted by\u00a0members. For Bron, the Stoffen case, the Paris fraud trial, the Lopez preliminary investigation and other high-profile complaints against Scientology are indicative of \"a climate of discrimination\" and \"orchestrated campaigns\" against Scientology in France, pushed by \"extremist and antireligious pressure groups\". Among those groups she includes the French government agency Miviludes, set up to observe and monitor whether sects and cults break the law or threaten public health.In a government office attached to the prime minister's residence on Paris's Left Bank, Georges Fenech, magistrate and former MP for president Nicolas Sarkozy's UMP party, sits leafing through his collection of files marked Scientology. As president of Miviludes, Fenech's official mission is to monitor every possible type of behaviour by a sect or cult that might fall outside the law. There are hundreds of small groups being studied from his office, but Fenech is best known as Scientology's number one enemy. In 1997, he was the investigating judge who instructed a major court case against Scientologists in Lyon. A young father, crippled with debts to the organisation, had killed himself by jumping from a 12th-floor window. In court, convictions were obtained for\u00a0manslaughter and fraud. To Scientologists, Fenech is on a \"crusade\" against the Church of Scientology, running a sustained press campaign against them and leading a state-sponsored witch-hunt. \"It's rather flattering,\" he smiles. \"It\u00a0proves that the work we do here is efficient.\"France, with its republican tradition of the separation of church and state, takes the behaviour of sects and cults seriously \u2013 perhaps because it has been shaken by a number of major tragedies in recent history, including the mass suicide of members of the cult Order of the Solar Temple.But a deep scepticism of sects is not confined to government officials. There was a media outcry in 2004 when Sarkozy, then minister for finance, was suspected of favouring Scientology after his very public meeting with Tom Cruise. Another followed last year when one of his top advisers, Emanuelle Mignon, said the state's attitude to Scientology was questionable. Fenech\u00a0insists: \"Nicolas Sarkozy met Tom Cruise, the international film star, not as the ambassador for Scientology. The meeting was never a\u00a0question of Scientology.\" He says the president is \"firm\" on the issue of sects, and Mignon has given assurances that her comments were taken out\u00a0of\u00a0context.The Church of Scientology argues that secular France is persecuting it for its beliefs as a\u00a0\"new religion\". Fenech disagrees. \"For France, Scientology is a vast commercial enterprise hiding behind a religious mask,\" he says. \"This is not something against the Ron Hubbardian doctrine, or beliefs about intergalactic happenings thousands of years ago. What we're interested in is that people are dragged into this movement, lose their liberty, autonomy and sometimes their life.\" He says France protects freedom of religion, \"but if a law is being broken, the state will go there. Religion isn't a protection against the law.\"Back in Normandy, Gwen Le Berre says he has no interest in any kind of campaign against Scientology \u2013 he just wants justice and the truth about his mother. Unable to close the chapter on their grief, the family still pore over what they know of Lopez's life as a Scientologist: how she joined every possible Scientology group in Paris, how she took her eight-year-old daughter to a\u00a0children's Scientology course and her young son to Scientology summer revision sessions, before her ex-husband insisted she stopped talking to the children about the movement until they were 18. \"When she died, I didn't know much about Scientology. It was the last thing that came to mind,\" her son says. \"If, by bringing a\u00a0case, we can open people's eyes, it will have been worth it.\"", "tags": ["Scientology", "France", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Scientology: crisis in France"},{"date": "2009-09-28T14:16:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Roman Polanski, who hasn't set foot in Britain since 1978 for fear of extradition, was arrested yesterday in Zurich by the Swiss police for an assault he pleaded guilty to in 1977. The irony is that such an event, the kind he has dreaded for 32 years, should take place in a country where he owns a chalet and spends many weeks every year. The blow came unexpectedly; the news was a shock to many.A shock, not because the man is innocent (the case is summarised here) but because since last year, thanks to a remarkable American documentary by investigative film-maker Marina Zenovich called Roman Polanski: Wanted and Desired, we now know that Roman Polanski was treated unfairly by the judge Laurence Rittenband and that he was the victim of gross misconduct from the Los Angeles court. Even the victim's lawyer implies at the end of the documentary that he would have done the same that Polanski did \u2013 jump bail and take the first plane to Paris to avoid a lengthier prison sentence. One detail of importance: by the time he fled the US, he had already served a short time in prison.It is precisely in the light of the new evidence revealed by this documentary that Roman Polanski's lawyers asked the US justice department a few months ago for the case to be closed. While recognising the presence of new elements in the dossier and acknowledging the \"substantial misconduct \" of Judge Rittenband, the Los Angeles court in charge of the dossier declared the case couldn't be closed while Polanski was still technically a fugitive. That decision is still being appealed by Polanski's lawyers as I write.It's in this context, then, that it's shocking to many cinephiles and to the French in particular that the 76-year-old Polanski should be arrested. Since yesterday, reactions in favour of the film director have poured forth from across the political and cultural spectrum, including of course that of the culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterrand, who did not mince his words. He labelled the arrest \"senseless\" and \"outrageous\" nature of such arrest which comes from the \"darker side of America, the one that scares us all.\" The Cannes film festival is spearheading a campaign to free Polanski and the French foreign minister Bernard Kouchner has contacted US secretary of state Hilary Clinton to ask for a presidential pardon. \"We're calling on every film-maker we can to help fix this terrible situation,\" the American producer Harvey Weinstein said. Sources close to Weinstein said the mogul would reach out to Hollywood to lobby against any move to bring Polanski to the US, where he could face up to 50 years in jail.There is a feeling in France that the US justice department is acting out some kind of prudish revenge against a great talent who never abided by American rules even when he was the most celebrated director in Hollywood.Many commenters have simply used the term 'rape' in relation to RomanPolanski's 1977 conviction. The offence he pleaded guilty to is oftendescribed as 'statutory rape' but more precisely as 'unlawful sexualintercourse with a minor'.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Switzerland", "Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Polanski's arrest has shocked France | Agnes Poirier"},{"date": "2009-07-04T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "I spend my holidays every year in La Loz\u00e8re in southern France. It's not easy to get to \u2013 there are no direct fast trains and no airport \u2013 but that protects the character of the area and there are lots of things to do. One of the major draws of the d\u00e9partment is nature; it's the last relatively untouched great expanse in France and it contains the Causses (limestone plateaux) which are almost completely uninhabited and very wild.Because there's so much forest, the area is very rich in bird life. It's a place where the eagle is king and there are many different birds of prey. If you want to see animals, there's a park full of wolves that was established by a wolf fanatic in a village called Sainte Lucie close to Marvejols. And there are wild horses that live freely on the Causses. There are also beautiful hikes that can stretch over several days, and you can do treks on horseback. It's also one of the French d\u00e9partments most reputed for fly-fishing. It's for real enthusiasts because the rivers are difficult to fish \u2013 but there are great rewards if you can do it. Many of the larger villages and small towns are extremely attractive. One of the prettiest is Ch\u00e2teauneuf de Randon (cantonchateauneufderandon.fr), which is of particular significance to British visitors because it is where the 14th-century warrior Bertrand du Guesclin repelled the English army during the Hundred Years War. The village is completely medieval and is situated on a small hill which provides a glorious view over the surrounding area. The tourist office organises guided visits.There may not be many Michelin-starred restaurants in the region but there are plenty of terrific places to eat: rustic places with honest food and excellent prices. You're not far from the area where Roquefort cheese is produced and there's Tomme de Loz\u00e8re, a big round cheese made from cow's milk which, for my money, is the best cheese in France.Jean-Pierre Chanial is travel editor of Le Figaro.\u2022 How to do it La Loz\u00e8re (lozere-uk.com) is 192km from N\u00eemes. Fly from London Luton or Liverpool to N\u00eemes with Ryanair (ryanair.com) and hire a car through Auto Europe (auto-europe.co.uk). Or, take Euro-star from London St Pancras to Paris, then take a train (changing at Clermond-Ferrand) to Langogne in the heart of La Loz\u00e8re. From \u00a3136 through Rail Europe (0844 848 4070; raileurope.co.uk).Aveyron, in the Midi-Pyrenees region, is where I was born and where I learnt to cook. A few English people have discovered it but, compared with places like Provence, it's a hidden gem. Cuisine is part of the culture there because you have everything you need for cooking. It's a farming region, very green and similar to the most beautiful parts of the British countryside. There are lots of specialities: wine, cheese and meat.My favourite restaurant in the north of the region is Bras, in Laguiole on the Aubrac plateau (00 33 5 6551 1820; michel-bras.com). It's run by Michel Bras, a chef quite unlike any other, who strikes a balance between the most modern styles of cooking and those rooted in the history of the region. One of his specialities is gargouillou \u2013 an assortment of baby vegetables, herbs and flowers from the area, cooked in a buttery sauce. He also has a dish called ombre et lumi\u00e8re (light and shade) which is fish cooked with olives. It's absolutely divine; you have to try that.There's a fantastic market every Saturday morning in Rodez, where I was born. It's in the town square just behind the cathedral and people come from across the region to sell their produce. There are little cafes all around the square where you can sit and relax.I learnt my trade at the Restaurant du Vieux Pont in Belcastel, a historic village in the centre of the region (00 33 5 6564 5229; hotelbelcastel.com). Run by two sisters, it has a Michelin star and serves food from the region cooked with real sensitivity and subtlety. It was once an auberge run by their mother, where all the local labourers used to eat. It has expanded since then but has retained that spirit.If you want to work up an appetite, there are some beautiful lakes in the region such as Lac de Pareloup, where you can go boating, windsurfing or jet skiing, or just bathe. It's really a region where you have everything; great food, markets, a lake and lots of beautiful little medieval villages.Cyril Lignac runs Le Quinzieme Cuisine Attitude in Paris (cyrillignac.com).\u2022 How to do it Fly from London Stansted to Rodez (ot-rodez.fr) with Ryanair (ryanair.com), then hire a car through Avis (avis.co.uk).  La Route du Rock festival takes place in Brittany at a beautiful site in Saint-Malo, a fortified town surrounded by beaches and the sea. And it's not far from the village of Cancale, which is one of the best places in France for eating oysters, so it's great for anyone who wants to combine the best of France with music. It is a completely independent festival and is one for real music aficionados. There's a good mix of big names \u2013 they've had the Cure, Franz Ferdinand and Pulp in the past \u2013 and less well-known bands. People come to see the main bands but also to discover new ones.The main concerts take place in the evening at an 18th-century fort, but there are also free concerts on one of the beaches in Saint-Malo. So you can get up late and wander down to the beach to listen to music and go for a dip at the same time. I remember the French artist Camille playing a gig with Nouvelle Vague on the beach and midway through the song she ran out to the sea, plunged in, came back and carried on. The organisers also put on beach football tournaments involving artists, journalists and fans.It's always a really convivial atmosphere \u2013 lots of Bretons but also lots of other French people \u2013 all having a good time. I have been most years for the past 10 years. The weather can be a bit variable but the worst is that it's going to be a little bit cold \u2013 there's no risk of mud. I saw the New York band Interpol in the rain once there and it was magical.Another good bet is the Garden Nef Party (17-18 July; garden-nef-party.com), which takes place at Angoul\u00eame, a historic town surrounded by ramparts. It's only been going a few years and is not expensive. The festival site is opposite the town on a hill, so you have this stunning view over Angoul\u00eame.Cecile Revenu works for Les Inrockuptibles, the French equivalent of NME. \u2022 How to do it Route de Rock (laroutedurock.com) takes place on 14-16 August this year and features My Bloody Valentine, the Kills and Simian Mobile Disco. Tickets for the three days cost \u00a494. Take the overnight ferry from Portsmouth to Saint-Malo with Brittany Ferries (0871 244 0744; brittany-ferries.co.uk) from \u00a3172 return for a car and two adults. See also saint-malo-tourisme.com.Arles is a very beautiful town with a strong sense of its cultural identity. The festival of photography (rencontres-arles.com), which takes place from July to September, is quite well known but it's fantastic. The whole city is taken over by photography; churches, restaurants, even private homes are all invaded by the artists. And the old SNCF train station is transformed into a massive space for installations and graphics.Fashion is very well represented, as quite a lot of well-known fashion photographers, such as Peter Lindbergh, exhibit. There's a fantastic museum \u2013 Mus\u00e9e Arlatan on rue de la Republique (00 33 4 9093 5811) \u2013 where you can find costumes from the 16th and 17th centuries. Arles has seen lots of immigration and there is a strong gypsy influence. It's a very interesting place, with a real diversity of people \u2013 a lot of stars live in the area \u2013 and it's quite glamorous in the summer.The trendiest place to stay is the Grand Hotel Nord-Pinus (00 33 4 9093 4444; nord-pinus.com). It's where the bullfighters used to prepare before going to the arena. You can also go there to eat. They serve a local speciality \u2013 a rago\u00fbt of bull meat with spices and a heavy wine sauce. I don't like it very much but it is very traditional and you should at least try it. There are lots of great coffee shops, and I'd recommend the H\u00f4tel de la Poste on rue Moli\u00e8re for a drink \u2013 it has a lovely terrace with trees and it's very traditional.A place that is great fun at night is El Patio (00 33 4 9049 5176; patiodecamargue.com), a restaurant owned by one of the members of the Gypsy Kings. It's like a big hacienda: you eat outside and there are musical performances and entertainment in the style of a 19th-century circus. It's lots of fun and great for children.Alexis Mabille has created dresses for Keira Knightley and Carla Bruni and designs jewellery for Yves Saint Laurent.\u2022 How to do it Arles (arlestourisme.com) is 32kms from N\u00eemes. Fly from London Luton or Liverpool to N\u00eemes with Ryanair (ryanair.com), then hire a car through Auto Europe (auto-europe.co.uk).Hossegor is about half an hour from Biarritz in the Pays Basque, and 40 minutes from the Spanish border. Some of the best surfers in France are from around the area. It hosts international surfing competitions, so the waves are first-class, and for an experienced surfer there's every type of wave to have fun. Close to the shore you get very powerful ones, which are good for doing barrels, and further out there are long point breaks where you can do turns. There are lots of clubs where you can hire surf boards and take lessons. If you want to learn, I'd recommend the summer because the waves are smaller.People from all over the world come to see the famous waves but it's not just a place for surfers: the beaches are really nice and it's a great place to sunbathe. It's becoming the destination for people who like beach holidays, but it's a pretty mellow place. Fifteen minutes from the city, you can be in the surrounding pine forests with absolutely no one around. There are routes for cycling, walking and running through the forests. And you can go through the forests and across the sand dunes to get into the ocean in places which are deserted. Those are the coolest spots.In terms of places to stay, there's something for everyone. There are lots of cool campsites with a relaxed atmosphere and people from all over having fun. Or there are big houses with swimming pools to rent just next to the beach. As for nightlife, there's a part of Hossegor called La Centrale where all the bars are. If you ask for a good place to party, everyone will tell you the same thing: Rockfood (rockfoodhossegor.com). It's a restaurant and bar right on the beach decorated with surfboards signed by the world's best surfers, and after 11pm it turns into a club. No one actually holds parties at night on the beach itself though; everyone is very eco-conscious and they try to preserve this paradise.Jeremy Flores, 21, is the wunderkind of French surfing and the youngest-ever competitor in the ASP (Association of Surfing Professionals) World Tour.\u2022 How to do it Hossegor (hossegor.fr) is 41km from Biarritz. Fly from Gatwick or Bristol to Biarritz with Easyjet (easyjet.com), then hire a car through Carrentals.co.uk (carrentals.co.uk).I spent three years in Lyon in the early 90s and the more time I spent there, the more I discovered. It may not be thought of as a tourist town but it has beautiful architectural monuments, a lovely setting and lots of cultural heritage. Two historic parts of the city are great to wander around. La Croix Rousse is the old silk-weaving quarter, where the artisans of Lyon had beautiful apartments and workshops. It has a lot of historical charm, with a flavour of 19th century industry.The Saint-Jean quarter is another wonderfully historic area in the west of the city. It can be a bit touristy so you have to go as far west and upwards as possible to lose yourself in the little alleyways. Up there, it's inaccessible to cars so you almost have the impression of being in the country. There's a real sense of peace and calm.Lyon has a great mix of traditional and modern architecture. The opera house on the main square was restored by the top French architect Jean Nouvel. I think it's beautiful, very contemporary but retaining a sense of history. The interior is shiny and glossy \u2013 Nouvel's style in the 80s \u2013 and magnificent. I also love the Cit\u00e9 Internationale de Renzo Piano, a massive complex on the banks of the Rh\u00f4ne with hotels, conference centres, a museum and a casino.Another really notable aspect of architecture in Lyon is the Art Deco skyscrapers in Villeurbanne. They were built in the 30s \u2013 the first in France \u2013 and are incredible. People live there but if you're feeling adventurous you can ask if they'll let you in. Lots of the inhabitants are aware how significant their buildings are and are quite willing to let you in to climb up the inside. Manuelle Gautrand's award-winning projects have included the Centre for Contemporary Music in Paris and the Lille Modern Art Museum.\u2022 How to do it Take the Eurostar from London St Pancras to Lyon (via Paris) through Rail Europe (as before) from \u00a399 return. See also lyon-france.com.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Rail travel", "Paris holidays", "Lyon holidays", "Arles holidays", "Cultural trips", "Restaurants", "Hotels", "Shopping trips", "Walking holidays", "Cycling holidays", "Flights", "Surfing holidays", "Travel"], "title": "France by the French"},{"date": "2009-07-15T19:20:42Z", "country": "france", "content": "France today moved a step closer to increasing Sunday shopping hours, when parliament approved a weekend trading law after months of heated argument.Nicolas Sarkozy made liberalising Sunday shopping a plank of his 2007 presidential campaign \u2013 part of his drive to make France a more entrepreneurial society, where people would \"work more to earn more\". But his first attempt last year to see more shops open on Sunday was met with rebellion in his centre-right party, an outcry from the Catholic church and protests from Socialists that he was destroying the fabric of French society and family life by killing the sacrosanct weekend.With the row portrayed as a battle for the soul of France, Sarkozy warned rebellious MPs in his party that Sunday shopping was a symbolic change and if not passed, his image as the only man brave enough to reform France would be forever damaged. Recently, the president used Michelle Obama as a key argument, complaining that he had to intervene to allow her to browse a chic children's shop on the left bank on a Sunday visit to Paris.\"We're the country with the biggest number of tourists in the world \u2013 80 million a year. Is it normal that on a Sunday, when Mrs Obama wants to take her daughters shopping in Paris, I have to make a phone call to make the shops open? So I say to all the people who supported Obama [in France]...go and explain to the Obamas why on Sunday, we're the only country that's shut,\" he said.Sunday working in France is a complex and muddy area \u2013 more shops are open in France on a Sunday than in strict Germany, but fewer than in Britain. The current law is such a confused mish-mash of rules and exceptions that some areas have shops open and others do not. For example, certain stores on the Champs Elys\u00e9es are allowed to trade, while others must stay shuttered. Meanwhile, markets and bakers do a brisk Sunday morning trade across France.After months of wrangling, the lower house of parliament today approved a much watered-down version of Sarkozy's initial law, but it must still go before the senate next week. Under the new amended bill, shops in three big metropolitan areas, Paris, Marseille and Lille would be permitted to open on Sundays. In those areas, employees in large shops would be able to refuse Sunday hours and Sunday workers would be paid overtime. Shops in a further 500 towns and villages deemed of \"tourist interest\" could also open but without the obligation to pay overtime.The left has deemed it a \"socially abhorrent and economic nonsense\" to liberalise Sunday working hours. Unions complained of a progressive generalisation of Sunday working that would pressurise workers. Sarkozy's party claimed the measure could create thousands of jobs.The right also hopes the measure will boost tourist spending. Paris is the most visited capital in the world, but tourists spend on average less in France than they do in the US or Italy.", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France eases Sunday shop ban"},{"date": "2009-08-28T23:10:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "In a small Normandy village, surrounded by wheat fields, Gwen Le Berre keeps a\u00a0Scientology \"electrometer\" machine in his bedroom. He opens the large green briefcase and peers at the machine inside. It looks like a lie-detector from an\u00a0old TV cop show and Le Berre doesn't really understand how it works \u2013 he just knows it's a key piece of kit for the Church of Scientology.Le Berre, 21, keeps the machine as a memento of his mother's life. Four days before Christmas 2006, Gloria Lopez, a 47-year-old secretary, tidied her kitchen, hung out her washing, left her dull, suburban apartment overlooking the railway in Colombes, west of Paris, and walked the 30 metres out on to the tracks. She stood with her arms outstretched, smiling at the driver of the oncoming commuter train. He couldn't stop in time.Lopez had left Spain in the 80s to marry Pascal Le Berre, a French secondary school teacher. The couple had two children together in Normandy, but divorced soon afterwards. It was just after the split that Lopez \u2013 who had always been interested in alternative medicine and esoteric ideas \u2013 met some Scientologists and signed up. The church was to become her life. Eventually, she moved to Paris, leaving her two children behind, to be nearer the Scientology Centre.\"When she found herself alone after the divorce, her need for a spiritual search was reawakened,\" Pascal Le Berre says. \"At the start, Scientology gave her confidence, it gave her the illusion she could be stronger than she thought. She saw it as helping the world work better \u2013\u00a0even\u00a0a way of saving the world.\"Gwen Le Berre had been due to visit his mother to give her her Christmas present two days after she killed herself. His elder sister, Mathilde, had\u00a0seen her a few weeks before and, although Lopez had lost weight in recent months,\u00a0she had seemed in good form. They were convinced she would have left a suicide note, and\u00a0went to her apartment, where the shelves were stacked with Scientology books and DVDs, to search for one. Instead, they found a box of documents in which she had handwritten a series of punishing self-appraisals as part of her membership of the Church of Scientology. She wrote of how she owed money to the organisation for courses, was struggling to advance up the path to spiritual enlightenment, really wanted to succeed as a\u00a0Scientologist, and regretted every mistake in her life. \"She even wrote that she had surfed the internet for two minutes beyond her allocated lunch break at work,\" Gwen says.Pascal agrees: \"It was as if everything she tried to do was a failure \u2013 not advancing up the chain of Scientology courses, but also being distant from her children. She felt a\u00a0lot of pain over that.\"Surprised at the lack of bills and other normal financial documents at the flat \u2013 where Lopez often housed Scientologist lodgers, and which other church members regularly visited \u2013 the family wondered if other documents had gone missing or been removed.But after reading her tormented writings, Lopez's children and her ex-husband decided to\u00a0file a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for what they claim is its role in her death. They estimate that in around 10 years as a\u00a0Scientologist, Lopez spent between \u20ac200,000 and \u20ac250,000 on courses and books \u2013 despite her secretary's salary, which was \u20ac2,000 a month at the time of her death. Her family also claim that she was counselled by Scientology financial advisers and decided to sell a property she had inherited in Spain, freeing up capital for more courses. \"They stole my mother,\" Gwen says. \"I\u00a0don't feel I knew my mother apart from in her role as a\u00a0Scientologist.\"The police investigation into the Lopez case is just one of a series of investigations and legal cases that has led the Church of Scientology to complain of a \"climate of hatred\" and a state-sponsored \"inquisition\" against them in France. Together they have the potential to threaten Scientology's very survival in France and undermine it elsewhere. This autumn, not only could its two flagship centres in France be closed down, but the church itself could be convicted of\u00a0\"organised fraud\".Founded in California in the 50s by the flamboyant science fiction author, L Ron Hubbard, the Church of Scientology claims to offer spiritual self-improvement based on his writings. From the beginning it attracted controversy. It vehemently opposes conventional psychiatry, instead favouring Hubbard's philosophy of mental health, known as Dianetics. This teaches that a person's spirit can be cleared of negative experiences and encourages members to progress up \"The Bridge to Total Freedom\" through a complex \"auditing\" process, until they reach the most advanced level of spiritual \"clarity\". The movement is fiercely protective of copyright over its teachings and its central idea that humans are descended from Thetans \u2013 an exiled race from another planet. Hollywood members include Tom Cruise and John Travolta, and Scientology now considers itself to be one of the fastest-growing new religions in the world, claiming more than 7,900 churches, missions and groups in 164 countries.This year the movement was hit by scandal in Florida when senior members defected and alleged routine physical attacks by the church's leader, David Miscavige \u2013 allegations the church denies. But it is France that is threatening to become the organisation's nemesis. Scientology has no religious status in France, and in the 90s it\u00a0was included in a government inquiry's list of sects. The Church of Scientology says it has six churches and six missions in France, totalling 45,000 members. The French government puts the membership at between 2,000 and 3,000.Along with the Lopez case, there is an ongoing investigation into a 2008 kidnapping case in which Martine Boublil, a 48-year-old Frenchwoman, is said to have been found being held, half naked, on a vermin-infested mattress in a house in Sardinia. She filed a complaint saying that her brother \u2013 an ex-doctor and prominent Scientologist \u2013 had kidnapped her, trying to treat her psychological problems himself. The Church of Scientology and Boublil's brother, Claude, denies she was kidnapped and described the case\u00a0as a \"tragic family affair\" that the media had sought to exploit.But this May the most serious fraud trial that the Church of Scientology has faced anywhere in\u00a0the world opened in Paris. Not only were six important French Scientologists placed in the dock for organised fraud and illegally practising as pharmacists \u2013 for selling vitamins classed as medication in France \u2013 but, for the first time, the\u00a0Church itself was accused of organised fraud. In a historic move, the state prosecutor requested that the judges dismantle and dissolve Paris's two\u00a0flagship Scientology premises: the Celebrity Centre and its bookshop in the capital. The verdict is due at the end of October, and the world\u00a0is\u00a0watching. If the Paris centres are shut, it\u00a0will limit\u00a0Scientology's operations in France and may\u00a0have implications elsewhere.In May, Aude-Claire Malton, a former hotel housekeeper, took the stand against the Church of Scientology at the Palais de Justice in Paris. She\u00a0described how, depressed after a relationship failed, she met a group of Scientologists at a Metro exit and filled in their personality test questionnaire. A\u00a0few days later, the Church of Scientology called her to fix an appointment at the Celebrity Centre. \"They told me I was in a\u00a0very uneven state, and that they could help me by giving me some courses.\" The first course cost \u20ac20, but immediately afterwards she was offered a \"package\" of several sessions for \u20ac4,800. She emptied several savings accounts, her life insurance policy, and took out a loan to pay for more courses on the advice of her Scientology personal financial adviser.Asked by the judge how she could have spent so much, she said: \"You have to understand, you're in the brouhaha of the Scientology Centre where everyone repeats to you: 'You must continue, you're making progress, you're going to\u00a0be able to better yourself, all this is for you.' \"One of the products she spent money on was a full-time 10-day \"purification\" treatment, where she would take vitamins, then go for a run, then undertake two, three or four hours of sauna. She said she lost four kilos and emerged exhausted. \"I\u00a0had to do it if I wanted to progress,\" she said.The judge read out a document described as Malton's Scientology programme: \"Move house, get money for life insurance, pay back \u20ac16,000, resign.\" She said the organisation wanted her to work for them at the Celebrity Centre, where she would get courses as part of her pay. They wanted her to move into shared accommodation to cut her costs. But her family and ex-boyfriend stepped in and persuaded her to quit Scientology.Summing up, the French state prosecutor slammed a \"universe of secret rules\" and deliberate, planned, fraudulent manoeuvres. She criticised the movement's personality tests and electrometers, which she said were designed to impress and deceive members.When the verdict is handed down in October, it may not only see the dissolution of Scientology's major Paris branches, but fines of \u20ac4m and hefty sentences levelled against six individuals, among them Alain Rosenberg, the director general of Paris's Celebrity Centre and one of the select few Scientologists in France who have attained the church's highest grade of clarity and enlightenment. He denied the prosecution's charges that Scientology was a business that planned to ensnare new members to defraud them. \"I'm a\u00a0man of the church and not a director general of\u00a0a business,\" he said. He defined purification treatments, electrometers and courses in Ron Hubbard's book Dianetics as \"religious services\", arguing that \"spiritual elevation\" had no price.Defence lawyers said none of the individuals on\u00a0trial had made a cent and had acted \"out of religious conviction\". Scientology's barrister Patrick Maisonneuve argued that while other countries had recognised Scientology as a\u00a0religion, France was intent on \"burning Ron Hubbard's books in the courtyard of the Holy Chapel as the international community watches\u00a0in horror\".Just before the fraud trial began, pianist and teacher Alain Stoffen stoked the controversy surrounding Scientology in France with his book Voyage To The Heart Of Scientology. It tells the story of his \"descent to hell\" during more than a\u00a0decade as a\u00a0member of the organisation.A tall, intense man, Stoffen, 48, sits in his modest flat on the edge of Paris and describes an idyllic upbringing in Brussels, during which he decided he wanted to be a musician, performer, composer \u2013 \"an artist\". At 24, he took a piano teaching job in a Paris music school, which he says was run as a\u00a0recruiting ground by Scientologists. Inspired by the fact that his jazz hero, Chick Corea, was a\u00a0Scientologist, he plunged into Hubbard's teachings. His initial communication courses at the Celebrity Centre helped Stoffen overcome his shyness and perform better on stage. \"The results were phenomenal, tangible, concrete.\"He says it's wrong to assume people who join Scientology are \"weak\". \"The people who sign up have a healthy approach, they want to go forward in life, achieve their projects and ambitions.\" At the Celebrity Centre, he felt he was surrounded by an elite membership from the worlds of art and business. But Stoffen became tortured by his struggle to progress to higher levels of \"clarity\" and the constant scraping for money to pay for courses. \"You would do everything to pay that sum, it was\u00a0a question of life and death for us, spiritual life or\u00a0death,\" he says.\"When you're on the inside, the illusion is perfect. I was convinced that I was thinking for myself, that I became more authentic, that no one\u00a0ran my life. But the reverse was happening. Without realising, I had been subjected to a\u00a0real depersonalisation process, a\u00a0destructuring, so I\u00a0had become a type of clone. The aim is to destroy, destabilise the person, make them vulnerable, weaken them on a\u00a0psychological level\u00a0and place them in a state of dependence.\"In 15 years, Stoffen says he spent \u20ac45,000 on\u00a0Scientology courses and books which, he\u00a0suggests, was not a lot. \"Others spent well\u00a0over\u00a0\u20ac300,000.\"He married and had a child with another Scientologist, but after a painful break-up \u2013 \"managed\", he claims, by the organisation \u2013 he discovered what he called his secret \"personal dossier\". It was, he says, 150 pages long and contained minute details of his personal life, the workings of his divorce and custody of his child, and a programme detailing how to \"deal\" with him and get more money from him. \"It was a\u00a0horrible discovery. I vomited all night.\" He left in 2001 and filed a legal complaint against the Church of Scientology for extortion, fraud, blackmail and illegally practising as pharmacists. In September 2006, an investigating judge dismissed the case, but in May 2007 that decision was overturned by an appeals court. A judicial investigation has been reopened and Stoffen will meet investigating magistrates in September as he waits for the next step in his case.\"When you leave Scientology, you're totally broken,\" he says, \"as a human being, financially, morally. Your own identity is the result of indoctrination aimed at destroying your critical faculties. When you leave, the feeling of shame and guilt is enormous. It's unbearable.\"Agn\u00e8s Bron, of the French Church of Scientology's public affairs department, says that \"false allegations against Scientology with no proof\" mainly come from \"apostates\" who have left the\u00a0religion, and that the credibility of apostates must be treated with caution. She says Stoffen's \"completely deformed image of Scientology\" has been used by the media, and the dossier he claims to have discovered had not been secret at all, because all personal dossiers can be consulted by\u00a0members. For Bron, the Stoffen case, the Paris fraud trial, the Lopez preliminary investigation and other high-profile complaints against Scientology are indicative of \"a climate of discrimination\" and \"orchestrated campaigns\" against Scientology in France, pushed by \"extremist and antireligious pressure groups\". Among those groups she includes the French government agency Miviludes, set up to observe and monitor whether sects and cults break the law or threaten public health.In a government office attached to the prime minister's residence on Paris's Left Bank, Georges Fenech, magistrate and former MP for president Nicolas Sarkozy's UMP party, sits leafing through his collection of files marked Scientology. As president of Miviludes, Fenech's official mission is to monitor every possible type of behaviour by a sect or cult that might fall outside the law. There are hundreds of small groups being studied from his office, but Fenech is best known as Scientology's number one enemy. In 1997, he was the investigating judge who instructed a major court case against Scientologists in Lyon. A young father, crippled with debts to the organisation, had killed himself by jumping from a 12th-floor window. In court, convictions were obtained for\u00a0manslaughter and fraud. To Scientologists, Fenech is on a \"crusade\" against the Church of Scientology, running a sustained press campaign against them and leading a state-sponsored witch-hunt. \"It's rather flattering,\" he smiles. \"It\u00a0proves that the work we do here is efficient.\"France, with its republican tradition of the separation of church and state, takes the behaviour of sects and cults seriously \u2013 perhaps because it has been shaken by a number of major tragedies in recent history, including the mass suicide of members of the cult Order of the Solar Temple.But a deep scepticism of sects is not confined to government officials. There was a media outcry in 2004 when Sarkozy, then minister for finance, was suspected of favouring Scientology after his very public meeting with Tom Cruise. Another followed last year when one of his top advisers, Emanuelle Mignon, said the state's attitude to Scientology was questionable. Fenech\u00a0insists: \"Nicolas Sarkozy met Tom Cruise, the international film star, not as the ambassador for Scientology. The meeting was never a\u00a0question of Scientology.\" He says the president is \"firm\" on the issue of sects, and Mignon has given assurances that her comments were taken out\u00a0of\u00a0context.The Church of Scientology argues that secular France is persecuting it for its beliefs as a\u00a0\"new religion\". Fenech disagrees. \"For France, Scientology is a vast commercial enterprise hiding behind a religious mask,\" he says. \"This is not something against the Ron Hubbardian doctrine, or beliefs about intergalactic happenings thousands of years ago. What we're interested in is that people are dragged into this movement, lose their liberty, autonomy and sometimes their life.\" He says France protects freedom of religion, \"but if a law is being broken, the state will go there. Religion isn't a protection against the law.\"Back in Normandy, Gwen Le Berre says he has no interest in any kind of campaign against Scientology \u2013 he just wants justice and the truth about his mother. Unable to close the chapter on their grief, the family still pore over what they know of Lopez's life as a Scientologist: how she joined every possible Scientology group in Paris, how she took her eight-year-old daughter to a\u00a0children's Scientology course and her young son to Scientology summer revision sessions, before her ex-husband insisted she stopped talking to the children about the movement until they were 18. \"When she died, I didn't know much about Scientology. It was the last thing that came to mind,\" her son says. \"If, by bringing a\u00a0case, we can open people's eyes, it will have been worth it.\"", "tags": ["Scientology", "France", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Scientology: crisis in France"},{"date": "2009-09-28T14:16:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Roman Polanski, who hasn't set foot in Britain since 1978 for fear of extradition, was arrested yesterday in Zurich by the Swiss police for an assault he pleaded guilty to in 1977. The irony is that such an event, the kind he has dreaded for 32 years, should take place in a country where he owns a chalet and spends many weeks every year. The blow came unexpectedly; the news was a shock to many.A shock, not because the man is innocent (the case is summarised here) but because since last year, thanks to a remarkable American documentary by investigative film-maker Marina Zenovich called Roman Polanski: Wanted and Desired, we now know that Roman Polanski was treated unfairly by the judge Laurence Rittenband and that he was the victim of gross misconduct from the Los Angeles court. Even the victim's lawyer implies at the end of the documentary that he would have done the same that Polanski did \u2013 jump bail and take the first plane to Paris to avoid a lengthier prison sentence. One detail of importance: by the time he fled the US, he had already served a short time in prison.It is precisely in the light of the new evidence revealed by this documentary that Roman Polanski's lawyers asked the US justice department a few months ago for the case to be closed. While recognising the presence of new elements in the dossier and acknowledging the \"substantial misconduct \" of Judge Rittenband, the Los Angeles court in charge of the dossier declared the case couldn't be closed while Polanski was still technically a fugitive. That decision is still being appealed by Polanski's lawyers as I write.It's in this context, then, that it's shocking to many cinephiles and to the French in particular that the 76-year-old Polanski should be arrested. Since yesterday, reactions in favour of the film director have poured forth from across the political and cultural spectrum, including of course that of the culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterrand, who did not mince his words. He labelled the arrest \"senseless\" and \"outrageous\" nature of such arrest which comes from the \"darker side of America, the one that scares us all.\" The Cannes film festival is spearheading a campaign to free Polanski and the French foreign minister Bernard Kouchner has contacted US secretary of state Hilary Clinton to ask for a presidential pardon. \"We're calling on every film-maker we can to help fix this terrible situation,\" the American producer Harvey Weinstein said. Sources close to Weinstein said the mogul would reach out to Hollywood to lobby against any move to bring Polanski to the US, where he could face up to 50 years in jail.There is a feeling in France that the US justice department is acting out some kind of prudish revenge against a great talent who never abided by American rules even when he was the most celebrated director in Hollywood.Many commenters have simply used the term 'rape' in relation to RomanPolanski's 1977 conviction. The offence he pleaded guilty to is oftendescribed as 'statutory rape' but more precisely as 'unlawful sexualintercourse with a minor'.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Switzerland", "Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "Europe"], "title": "Polanski's arrest has shocked France | Agnes Poirier"},{"date": "2009-07-04T23:01:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "I spend my holidays every year in La Loz\u00e8re in southern France. It's not easy to get to \u2013 there are no direct fast trains and no airport \u2013 but that protects the character of the area and there are lots of things to do. One of the major draws of the d\u00e9partment is nature; it's the last relatively untouched great expanse in France and it contains the Causses (limestone plateaux) which are almost completely uninhabited and very wild.Because there's so much forest, the area is very rich in bird life. It's a place where the eagle is king and there are many different birds of prey. If you want to see animals, there's a park full of wolves that was established by a wolf fanatic in a village called Sainte Lucie close to Marvejols. And there are wild horses that live freely on the Causses. There are also beautiful hikes that can stretch over several days, and you can do treks on horseback. It's also one of the French d\u00e9partments most reputed for fly-fishing. It's for real enthusiasts because the rivers are difficult to fish \u2013 but there are great rewards if you can do it. Many of the larger villages and small towns are extremely attractive. One of the prettiest is Ch\u00e2teauneuf de Randon (cantonchateauneufderandon.fr), which is of particular significance to British visitors because it is where the 14th-century warrior Bertrand du Guesclin repelled the English army during the Hundred Years War. The village is completely medieval and is situated on a small hill which provides a glorious view over the surrounding area. The tourist office organises guided visits.There may not be many Michelin-starred restaurants in the region but there are plenty of terrific places to eat: rustic places with honest food and excellent prices. You're not far from the area where Roquefort cheese is produced and there's Tomme de Loz\u00e8re, a big round cheese made from cow's milk which, for my money, is the best cheese in France.Jean-Pierre Chanial is travel editor of Le Figaro.\u2022 How to do it La Loz\u00e8re (lozere-uk.com) is 192km from N\u00eemes. Fly from London Luton or Liverpool to N\u00eemes with Ryanair (ryanair.com) and hire a car through Auto Europe (auto-europe.co.uk). Or, take Euro-star from London St Pancras to Paris, then take a train (changing at Clermond-Ferrand) to Langogne in the heart of La Loz\u00e8re. From \u00a3136 through Rail Europe (0844 848 4070; raileurope.co.uk).Aveyron, in the Midi-Pyrenees region, is where I was born and where I learnt to cook. A few English people have discovered it but, compared with places like Provence, it's a hidden gem. Cuisine is part of the culture there because you have everything you need for cooking. It's a farming region, very green and similar to the most beautiful parts of the British countryside. There are lots of specialities: wine, cheese and meat.My favourite restaurant in the north of the region is Bras, in Laguiole on the Aubrac plateau (00 33 5 6551 1820; michel-bras.com). It's run by Michel Bras, a chef quite unlike any other, who strikes a balance between the most modern styles of cooking and those rooted in the history of the region. One of his specialities is gargouillou \u2013 an assortment of baby vegetables, herbs and flowers from the area, cooked in a buttery sauce. He also has a dish called ombre et lumi\u00e8re (light and shade) which is fish cooked with olives. It's absolutely divine; you have to try that.There's a fantastic market every Saturday morning in Rodez, where I was born. It's in the town square just behind the cathedral and people come from across the region to sell their produce. There are little cafes all around the square where you can sit and relax.I learnt my trade at the Restaurant du Vieux Pont in Belcastel, a historic village in the centre of the region (00 33 5 6564 5229; hotelbelcastel.com). Run by two sisters, it has a Michelin star and serves food from the region cooked with real sensitivity and subtlety. It was once an auberge run by their mother, where all the local labourers used to eat. It has expanded since then but has retained that spirit.If you want to work up an appetite, there are some beautiful lakes in the region such as Lac de Pareloup, where you can go boating, windsurfing or jet skiing, or just bathe. It's really a region where you have everything; great food, markets, a lake and lots of beautiful little medieval villages.Cyril Lignac runs Le Quinzieme Cuisine Attitude in Paris (cyrillignac.com).\u2022 How to do it Fly from London Stansted to Rodez (ot-rodez.fr) with Ryanair (ryanair.com), then hire a car through Avis (avis.co.uk).  La Route du Rock festival takes place in Brittany at a beautiful site in Saint-Malo, a fortified town surrounded by beaches and the sea. And it's not far from the village of Cancale, which is one of the best places in France for eating oysters, so it's great for anyone who wants to combine the best of France with music. It is a completely independent festival and is one for real music aficionados. There's a good mix of big names \u2013 they've had the Cure, Franz Ferdinand and Pulp in the past \u2013 and less well-known bands. People come to see the main bands but also to discover new ones.The main concerts take place in the evening at an 18th-century fort, but there are also free concerts on one of the beaches in Saint-Malo. So you can get up late and wander down to the beach to listen to music and go for a dip at the same time. I remember the French artist Camille playing a gig with Nouvelle Vague on the beach and midway through the song she ran out to the sea, plunged in, came back and carried on. The organisers also put on beach football tournaments involving artists, journalists and fans.It's always a really convivial atmosphere \u2013 lots of Bretons but also lots of other French people \u2013 all having a good time. I have been most years for the past 10 years. The weather can be a bit variable but the worst is that it's going to be a little bit cold \u2013 there's no risk of mud. I saw the New York band Interpol in the rain once there and it was magical.Another good bet is the Garden Nef Party (17-18 July; garden-nef-party.com), which takes place at Angoul\u00eame, a historic town surrounded by ramparts. It's only been going a few years and is not expensive. The festival site is opposite the town on a hill, so you have this stunning view over Angoul\u00eame.Cecile Revenu works for Les Inrockuptibles, the French equivalent of NME. \u2022 How to do it Route de Rock (laroutedurock.com) takes place on 14-16 August this year and features My Bloody Valentine, the Kills and Simian Mobile Disco. Tickets for the three days cost \u00a494. Take the overnight ferry from Portsmouth to Saint-Malo with Brittany Ferries (0871 244 0744; brittany-ferries.co.uk) from \u00a3172 return for a car and two adults. See also saint-malo-tourisme.com.Arles is a very beautiful town with a strong sense of its cultural identity. The festival of photography (rencontres-arles.com), which takes place from July to September, is quite well known but it's fantastic. The whole city is taken over by photography; churches, restaurants, even private homes are all invaded by the artists. And the old SNCF train station is transformed into a massive space for installations and graphics.Fashion is very well represented, as quite a lot of well-known fashion photographers, such as Peter Lindbergh, exhibit. There's a fantastic museum \u2013 Mus\u00e9e Arlatan on rue de la Republique (00 33 4 9093 5811) \u2013 where you can find costumes from the 16th and 17th centuries. Arles has seen lots of immigration and there is a strong gypsy influence. It's a very interesting place, with a real diversity of people \u2013 a lot of stars live in the area \u2013 and it's quite glamorous in the summer.The trendiest place to stay is the Grand Hotel Nord-Pinus (00 33 4 9093 4444; nord-pinus.com). It's where the bullfighters used to prepare before going to the arena. You can also go there to eat. They serve a local speciality \u2013 a rago\u00fbt of bull meat with spices and a heavy wine sauce. I don't like it very much but it is very traditional and you should at least try it. There are lots of great coffee shops, and I'd recommend the H\u00f4tel de la Poste on rue Moli\u00e8re for a drink \u2013 it has a lovely terrace with trees and it's very traditional.A place that is great fun at night is El Patio (00 33 4 9049 5176; patiodecamargue.com), a restaurant owned by one of the members of the Gypsy Kings. It's like a big hacienda: you eat outside and there are musical performances and entertainment in the style of a 19th-century circus. It's lots of fun and great for children.Alexis Mabille has created dresses for Keira Knightley and Carla Bruni and designs jewellery for Yves Saint Laurent.\u2022 How to do it Arles (arlestourisme.com) is 32kms from N\u00eemes. Fly from London Luton or Liverpool to N\u00eemes with Ryanair (ryanair.com), then hire a car through Auto Europe (auto-europe.co.uk).Hossegor is about half an hour from Biarritz in the Pays Basque, and 40 minutes from the Spanish border. Some of the best surfers in France are from around the area. It hosts international surfing competitions, so the waves are first-class, and for an experienced surfer there's every type of wave to have fun. Close to the shore you get very powerful ones, which are good for doing barrels, and further out there are long point breaks where you can do turns. There are lots of clubs where you can hire surf boards and take lessons. If you want to learn, I'd recommend the summer because the waves are smaller.People from all over the world come to see the famous waves but it's not just a place for surfers: the beaches are really nice and it's a great place to sunbathe. It's becoming the destination for people who like beach holidays, but it's a pretty mellow place. Fifteen minutes from the city, you can be in the surrounding pine forests with absolutely no one around. There are routes for cycling, walking and running through the forests. And you can go through the forests and across the sand dunes to get into the ocean in places which are deserted. Those are the coolest spots.In terms of places to stay, there's something for everyone. There are lots of cool campsites with a relaxed atmosphere and people from all over having fun. Or there are big houses with swimming pools to rent just next to the beach. As for nightlife, there's a part of Hossegor called La Centrale where all the bars are. If you ask for a good place to party, everyone will tell you the same thing: Rockfood (rockfoodhossegor.com). It's a restaurant and bar right on the beach decorated with surfboards signed by the world's best surfers, and after 11pm it turns into a club. No one actually holds parties at night on the beach itself though; everyone is very eco-conscious and they try to preserve this paradise.Jeremy Flores, 21, is the wunderkind of French surfing and the youngest-ever competitor in the ASP (Association of Surfing Professionals) World Tour.\u2022 How to do it Hossegor (hossegor.fr) is 41km from Biarritz. Fly from Gatwick or Bristol to Biarritz with Easyjet (easyjet.com), then hire a car through Carrentals.co.uk (carrentals.co.uk).I spent three years in Lyon in the early 90s and the more time I spent there, the more I discovered. It may not be thought of as a tourist town but it has beautiful architectural monuments, a lovely setting and lots of cultural heritage. Two historic parts of the city are great to wander around. La Croix Rousse is the old silk-weaving quarter, where the artisans of Lyon had beautiful apartments and workshops. It has a lot of historical charm, with a flavour of 19th century industry.The Saint-Jean quarter is another wonderfully historic area in the west of the city. It can be a bit touristy so you have to go as far west and upwards as possible to lose yourself in the little alleyways. Up there, it's inaccessible to cars so you almost have the impression of being in the country. There's a real sense of peace and calm.Lyon has a great mix of traditional and modern architecture. The opera house on the main square was restored by the top French architect Jean Nouvel. I think it's beautiful, very contemporary but retaining a sense of history. The interior is shiny and glossy \u2013 Nouvel's style in the 80s \u2013 and magnificent. I also love the Cit\u00e9 Internationale de Renzo Piano, a massive complex on the banks of the Rh\u00f4ne with hotels, conference centres, a museum and a casino.Another really notable aspect of architecture in Lyon is the Art Deco skyscrapers in Villeurbanne. They were built in the 30s \u2013 the first in France \u2013 and are incredible. People live there but if you're feeling adventurous you can ask if they'll let you in. Lots of the inhabitants are aware how significant their buildings are and are quite willing to let you in to climb up the inside. Manuelle Gautrand's award-winning projects have included the Centre for Contemporary Music in Paris and the Lille Modern Art Museum.\u2022 How to do it Take the Eurostar from London St Pancras to Lyon (via Paris) through Rail Europe (as before) from \u00a399 return. See also lyon-france.com.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Rail travel", "Paris holidays", "Lyon holidays", "Arles holidays", "Cultural trips", "Restaurants", "Hotels", "Shopping trips", "Walking holidays", "Cycling holidays", "Flights", "Surfing holidays", "Travel"], "title": "France by the French"},{"date": "2009-07-15T19:20:42Z", "country": "france", "content": "France today moved a step closer to increasing Sunday shopping hours, when parliament approved a weekend trading law after months of heated argument.Nicolas Sarkozy made liberalising Sunday shopping a plank of his 2007 presidential campaign \u2013 part of his drive to make France a more entrepreneurial society, where people would \"work more to earn more\". But his first attempt last year to see more shops open on Sunday was met with rebellion in his centre-right party, an outcry from the Catholic church and protests from Socialists that he was destroying the fabric of French society and family life by killing the sacrosanct weekend.With the row portrayed as a battle for the soul of France, Sarkozy warned rebellious MPs in his party that Sunday shopping was a symbolic change and if not passed, his image as the only man brave enough to reform France would be forever damaged. Recently, the president used Michelle Obama as a key argument, complaining that he had to intervene to allow her to browse a chic children's shop on the left bank on a Sunday visit to Paris.\"We're the country with the biggest number of tourists in the world \u2013 80 million a year. Is it normal that on a Sunday, when Mrs Obama wants to take her daughters shopping in Paris, I have to make a phone call to make the shops open? So I say to all the people who supported Obama [in France]...go and explain to the Obamas why on Sunday, we're the only country that's shut,\" he said.Sunday working in France is a complex and muddy area \u2013 more shops are open in France on a Sunday than in strict Germany, but fewer than in Britain. The current law is such a confused mish-mash of rules and exceptions that some areas have shops open and others do not. For example, certain stores on the Champs Elys\u00e9es are allowed to trade, while others must stay shuttered. Meanwhile, markets and bakers do a brisk Sunday morning trade across France.After months of wrangling, the lower house of parliament today approved a much watered-down version of Sarkozy's initial law, but it must still go before the senate next week. Under the new amended bill, shops in three big metropolitan areas, Paris, Marseille and Lille would be permitted to open on Sundays. In those areas, employees in large shops would be able to refuse Sunday hours and Sunday workers would be paid overtime. Shops in a further 500 towns and villages deemed of \"tourist interest\" could also open but without the obligation to pay overtime.The left has deemed it a \"socially abhorrent and economic nonsense\" to liberalise Sunday working hours. Unions complained of a progressive generalisation of Sunday working that would pressurise workers. Sarkozy's party claimed the measure could create thousands of jobs.The right also hopes the measure will boost tourist spending. Paris is the most visited capital in the world, but tourists spend on average less in France than they do in the US or Italy.", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France eases Sunday shop ban"},{"date": "2009-09-09T20:50:28Z", "country": "france", "content": "France Telecom is struggling to deal with a wave of staff suicides which has seen more than 20 workers take their lives in the past 18 months \u2013 some leaving notes blaming job stress and misery at work.Today a technician in Troyes, south-east of Paris, stabbed himself in front of other staff during a management meeting. He had been told his job was to be cut. The man, in his 50s, was being treated in hospital for a stomach wound last night and was said to be stable.France Telecom, whose key brand is Orange, is Europe's third largest mobile phone operator and biggest provider of broadband internet services. After what union leaders at France Telecom called a \"spiral\" of suicides over recent years \u2013 six staff have killed themselves since mid-July \u2013 the company has promised better medical support for workers and will today enter negotiations with unions to tackle workplace stress.However, unions have warned that the company's entire management approach must be overhauled and some have called for strike action in Brittany on the same day. Trade union representatives at the company have blamed restructuring cuts, extreme pressure, bullying and poor management methods \u2013 which, they say, have worsened since privatisation.On 29 August, a 53-year-old France Telecom technician and father of three killed himself in Lannion in Brittany. Colleagues and trade unionists blamed his death on difficulties surrounding his rank within the company and \"infantile\" management procedures.Earlier in August, a 28-year-old worker was found dead in his garage in Besan\u00e7on in the east of France. He had left a note that talked of his girlfriend, but also mentioned how he felt \"helpless\" and \"angry\" over issues at work. The prosecutor said it was impossible to formally establish a link between France Telecom and the suicide, but workers held a protest march over his death.On 14 July, another 52-year-old employee killed himself in Marseille, leaving behind a note blaming \"overwork\" and \"management by terror\". He wrote: \"I am committing suicide because of my work at France Telecom. That's the only reason.\"Pierre Gojat, head of a trade union stress watchdog at the company, said he was \"scandalised by [this] latest act of despair\" after the Troyes worker stabbed himself. France Telecom issued a statement, saying the employee's life \"was not in danger\" and that he had been offered another post in the same town and at the same level.Earlier this week, the company's director of human resources told Le Monde it was \"too simplistic\" to affirm a simple cause and effect relationship between issues at work and the staff deaths. He said experts had told the company that suicides were usually caused by various factors, rather than one unique problem.Twenty-nine France Telecom staff took their own lives in 2002 and another 22 in 2003. The French Democratic Confederation of Labour (CFDT) union said 22 France Telecom staff had killed themselves since February 2008.In 2007, a French prosecutor opened an inquiry into working conditions at carmaker Renault after suicides at one of its factories.", "tags": ["France", "Business", "Telecommunications industry", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Wave of staff suicides at France Telecom"},{"date": "2009-12-14T08:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those of us brought up in the high-rise, low-expectation housing projects surrounding Paris will have our very own Norman Tebbit-style nationality test this summer. Thanks to both France and Algeria qualifying for the football World Cup finals it's going to be a straight choice between blue and green \u2013 Les Bleus representing our parents' adopted homeland, or Les Verts from the former colony where they were born.Both countries qualified for the competition on the same night last month, with wild celebrations on the Champs Elys\u00e9es apparently conforming to the \"troubled communities\" clich\u00e9 which currently dominates French thinking. First generation North African immigrants from les banlieues could not, according to the Paris establishment, accept the tricolour's dominance over the star and crescent moon flag of Islam. Instead there were loud choruses of \"One, two, three, Viva l'Alg\u00e9rie\", much provocative horn blowing, and the dastardly firing-up of a couple of wheelie bins before the riot squads of the secular Fifth Republic moved in with their truncheons and tear gas.Such predictable scenes will be repeated across France as next summer's sporting extravaganza unfolds, convincing Nicolas Sarkozy that Tebbit's \"cricket test\" of 1990 was spot on. Then British Asians were encouraged to cheer for England rather than India or Pakistan during tense bat-and-ball internationals, while this time round the president will expect us all to rally behind the one, true France.Ridiculously simple, of course, but that's the way it is in my country at the moment. A massively divisive National Identity Debate is doing more to stir up anger and resentment than any dunderheaded football yob ever could. Intended to reaffirm \"pride in being French\", it is accompanied by a drive to make schoolchildren sing La Marseillaise, and to get adults to take civic tests to which the multiple choice answers are always \"Charles de Gaulle\", \"Austerlitz\" or \"1998\".Sarkozy honestly believes that banal exams and sports fan-style shouting matches will uncover the \"core values\" which bind us. If those of us originating from overseas can see beyond the unemployment, discrimination and other social problems blighting our suburban ghettoes then \u2013 the reasoning goes \u2013 we will feel more like integrated citizens.In fact, there are thousands of Algerians who support the French football team, just as a vast majority of the country's six million Muslims are committed to republican values and laws. Many of those on the Champs Elys\u00e9es were celebrating two World Cup qualifications, with the \"Allez les Bleus\" chant as prevalent as its Algerian equivalent. Zinedine Zidane, the World Cup hero, is typical of the kind of Frenchman with North African antecedents who remains happy in both camps. Like many Muslims, \"Zizou\" believes he can be a fan of any team he chooses yet still remain faithful to his culture and beliefs.The premise of Sarkozy's argument, in contrast, is that there is only one team, one identity, and therefore one loyalty. The level of the debate he has inspired can be found in the torrent of racial abuse which has flooded an internet site especially opened by Eric Besson, the immigration and national identity minister. In true Gallic style, it was meant to spark the discussion with interesting philosophical and sociological observations. Instead the most noteworthy contributions to date have included comments like \"France is for Christians\" and \"Being French means eating pork and not wearing a burqa\".This boorish, simplistic lead was naturally followed by Sarkozy, who wrote a column on the front page of Le Monde encouraging all devout French people \"to practise their religion in humble discretion\". The warning \u2013 and that's what it was \u2013 was clearly directed at troublesome Muslim communities, with Sarkozy even praising the Swiss for trying to ban minarets.Such pettiness prompted Sarkozy's erstwhile political ally, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, the former prime minister, to describe the identity debate as a \"bar-room discussion\" with \"no intellectual rigour\". Far from being a \"noble device\" aimed at pulling the country together, he suggested it was designed to win Sarkozy support among xenophobic and racist voters disillusioned by the ailing National Front party before the coming regional elections.It won't work. People can't be defined as one-dimensional. Suggesting otherwise is like trying to see the world in blue and green.", "tags": ["Race issues", "World Cup 2010", "France", "France", "Football", "World news", "Europe", "World Cup"], "title": "Taking sides in France | Nabila Ramdani"},{"date": "2009-12-14T08:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those of us brought up in the high-rise, low-expectation housing projects surrounding Paris will have our very own Norman Tebbit-style nationality test this summer. Thanks to both France and Algeria qualifying for the football World Cup finals it's going to be a straight choice between blue and green \u2013 Les Bleus representing our parents' adopted homeland, or Les Verts from the former colony where they were born.Both countries qualified for the competition on the same night last month, with wild celebrations on the Champs Elys\u00e9es apparently conforming to the \"troubled communities\" clich\u00e9 which currently dominates French thinking. First generation North African immigrants from les banlieues could not, according to the Paris establishment, accept the tricolour's dominance over the star and crescent moon flag of Islam. Instead there were loud choruses of \"One, two, three, Viva l'Alg\u00e9rie\", much provocative horn blowing, and the dastardly firing-up of a couple of wheelie bins before the riot squads of the secular Fifth Republic moved in with their truncheons and tear gas.Such predictable scenes will be repeated across France as next summer's sporting extravaganza unfolds, convincing Nicolas Sarkozy that Tebbit's \"cricket test\" of 1990 was spot on. Then British Asians were encouraged to cheer for England rather than India or Pakistan during tense bat-and-ball internationals, while this time round the president will expect us all to rally behind the one, true France.Ridiculously simple, of course, but that's the way it is in my country at the moment. A massively divisive National Identity Debate is doing more to stir up anger and resentment than any dunderheaded football yob ever could. Intended to reaffirm \"pride in being French\", it is accompanied by a drive to make schoolchildren sing La Marseillaise, and to get adults to take civic tests to which the multiple choice answers are always \"Charles de Gaulle\", \"Austerlitz\" or \"1998\".Sarkozy honestly believes that banal exams and sports fan-style shouting matches will uncover the \"core values\" which bind us. If those of us originating from overseas can see beyond the unemployment, discrimination and other social problems blighting our suburban ghettoes then \u2013 the reasoning goes \u2013 we will feel more like integrated citizens.In fact, there are thousands of Algerians who support the French football team, just as a vast majority of the country's six million Muslims are committed to republican values and laws. Many of those on the Champs Elys\u00e9es were celebrating two World Cup qualifications, with the \"Allez les Bleus\" chant as prevalent as its Algerian equivalent. Zinedine Zidane, the World Cup hero, is typical of the kind of Frenchman with North African antecedents who remains happy in both camps. Like many Muslims, \"Zizou\" believes he can be a fan of any team he chooses yet still remain faithful to his culture and beliefs.The premise of Sarkozy's argument, in contrast, is that there is only one team, one identity, and therefore one loyalty. The level of the debate he has inspired can be found in the torrent of racial abuse which has flooded an internet site especially opened by Eric Besson, the immigration and national identity minister. In true Gallic style, it was meant to spark the discussion with interesting philosophical and sociological observations. Instead the most noteworthy contributions to date have included comments like \"France is for Christians\" and \"Being French means eating pork and not wearing a burqa\".This boorish, simplistic lead was naturally followed by Sarkozy, who wrote a column on the front page of Le Monde encouraging all devout French people \"to practise their religion in humble discretion\". The warning \u2013 and that's what it was \u2013 was clearly directed at troublesome Muslim communities, with Sarkozy even praising the Swiss for trying to ban minarets.Such pettiness prompted Sarkozy's erstwhile political ally, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, the former prime minister, to describe the identity debate as a \"bar-room discussion\" with \"no intellectual rigour\". Far from being a \"noble device\" aimed at pulling the country together, he suggested it was designed to win Sarkozy support among xenophobic and racist voters disillusioned by the ailing National Front party before the coming regional elections.It won't work. People can't be defined as one-dimensional. Suggesting otherwise is like trying to see the world in blue and green.", "tags": ["Race issues", "World Cup 2010", "France", "France", "Football", "World news", "Europe", "World Cup"], "title": "Taking sides in France | Nabila Ramdani"},{"date": "2009-12-10T13:42:50Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Times has appointed the Observer's Louise France as editor of its Saturday supplement, the Magazine.France has been working as deputy editor of the Observer Woman and Observer Food Monthly magazines.She will join her former colleague Nicola Jeal, who left her job as the Observer's head of magazines become the Times' weekend editor earlier this year.France's departure follows a decision by the Observer's owner, Guardian News & Media, which also publishes MediaGuardian.co.uk, to close Observer Woman and other monthly magazines on sport and music as part of a review of operations. The company is to keep Observer Food Monthly going.In her time at the GNM title, France also worked as deputy editor of the Observer magazine and then as editor of its Review section.Her earlier career involved spells at the Daily Mail, Independent and Independent on Sunday.\"Louise is a dynamic journalist who brings a wide range of experience to this role, whether from glossy magazines or newspaper supplements,\" said the Times editor, James Harding.\"She is an original thinker with wide cultural references who can build great relationships with top writers. We are delighted she is joining the paper.\"\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "The Observer", "Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Media", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Observer's Louise France joins Times"},{"date": "2009-12-14T08:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those of us brought up in the high-rise, low-expectation housing projects surrounding Paris will have our very own Norman Tebbit-style nationality test this summer. Thanks to both France and Algeria qualifying for the football World Cup finals it's going to be a straight choice between blue and green \u2013 Les Bleus representing our parents' adopted homeland, or Les Verts from the former colony where they were born.Both countries qualified for the competition on the same night last month, with wild celebrations on the Champs Elys\u00e9es apparently conforming to the \"troubled communities\" clich\u00e9 which currently dominates French thinking. First generation North African immigrants from les banlieues could not, according to the Paris establishment, accept the tricolour's dominance over the star and crescent moon flag of Islam. Instead there were loud choruses of \"One, two, three, Viva l'Alg\u00e9rie\", much provocative horn blowing, and the dastardly firing-up of a couple of wheelie bins before the riot squads of the secular Fifth Republic moved in with their truncheons and tear gas.Such predictable scenes will be repeated across France as next summer's sporting extravaganza unfolds, convincing Nicolas Sarkozy that Tebbit's \"cricket test\" of 1990 was spot on. Then British Asians were encouraged to cheer for England rather than India or Pakistan during tense bat-and-ball internationals, while this time round the president will expect us all to rally behind the one, true France.Ridiculously simple, of course, but that's the way it is in my country at the moment. A massively divisive National Identity Debate is doing more to stir up anger and resentment than any dunderheaded football yob ever could. Intended to reaffirm \"pride in being French\", it is accompanied by a drive to make schoolchildren sing La Marseillaise, and to get adults to take civic tests to which the multiple choice answers are always \"Charles de Gaulle\", \"Austerlitz\" or \"1998\".Sarkozy honestly believes that banal exams and sports fan-style shouting matches will uncover the \"core values\" which bind us. If those of us originating from overseas can see beyond the unemployment, discrimination and other social problems blighting our suburban ghettoes then \u2013 the reasoning goes \u2013 we will feel more like integrated citizens.In fact, there are thousands of Algerians who support the French football team, just as a vast majority of the country's six million Muslims are committed to republican values and laws. Many of those on the Champs Elys\u00e9es were celebrating two World Cup qualifications, with the \"Allez les Bleus\" chant as prevalent as its Algerian equivalent. Zinedine Zidane, the World Cup hero, is typical of the kind of Frenchman with North African antecedents who remains happy in both camps. Like many Muslims, \"Zizou\" believes he can be a fan of any team he chooses yet still remain faithful to his culture and beliefs.The premise of Sarkozy's argument, in contrast, is that there is only one team, one identity, and therefore one loyalty. The level of the debate he has inspired can be found in the torrent of racial abuse which has flooded an internet site especially opened by Eric Besson, the immigration and national identity minister. In true Gallic style, it was meant to spark the discussion with interesting philosophical and sociological observations. Instead the most noteworthy contributions to date have included comments like \"France is for Christians\" and \"Being French means eating pork and not wearing a burqa\".This boorish, simplistic lead was naturally followed by Sarkozy, who wrote a column on the front page of Le Monde encouraging all devout French people \"to practise their religion in humble discretion\". The warning \u2013 and that's what it was \u2013 was clearly directed at troublesome Muslim communities, with Sarkozy even praising the Swiss for trying to ban minarets.Such pettiness prompted Sarkozy's erstwhile political ally, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, the former prime minister, to describe the identity debate as a \"bar-room discussion\" with \"no intellectual rigour\". Far from being a \"noble device\" aimed at pulling the country together, he suggested it was designed to win Sarkozy support among xenophobic and racist voters disillusioned by the ailing National Front party before the coming regional elections.It won't work. People can't be defined as one-dimensional. Suggesting otherwise is like trying to see the world in blue and green.", "tags": ["Race issues", "World Cup 2010", "France", "France", "Football", "World news", "Europe", "World Cup"], "title": "Taking sides in France | Nabila Ramdani"},{"date": "2009-12-10T13:42:50Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Times has appointed the Observer's Louise France as editor of its Saturday supplement, the Magazine.France has been working as deputy editor of the Observer Woman and Observer Food Monthly magazines.She will join her former colleague Nicola Jeal, who left her job as the Observer's head of magazines become the Times' weekend editor earlier this year.France's departure follows a decision by the Observer's owner, Guardian News & Media, which also publishes MediaGuardian.co.uk, to close Observer Woman and other monthly magazines on sport and music as part of a review of operations. The company is to keep Observer Food Monthly going.In her time at the GNM title, France also worked as deputy editor of the Observer magazine and then as editor of its Review section.Her earlier career involved spells at the Daily Mail, Independent and Independent on Sunday.\"Louise is a dynamic journalist who brings a wide range of experience to this role, whether from glossy magazines or newspaper supplements,\" said the Times editor, James Harding.\"She is an original thinker with wide cultural references who can build great relationships with top writers. We are delighted she is joining the paper.\"\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "The Observer", "Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Media", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Observer's Louise France joins Times"},{"date": "2009-10-03T23:08:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "Suddenly, I know how Posh feels \u2013 what to wear to the airport? Not, in my case, because I need to assemble yet another fabulous couture ensemble for the awaiting paparazzi, but because it's one of those scorching late September days Britain sometimes serves up by way of apology for another underwhelming summer. And I'm going snowboarding.It's a strange feeling to do the Tarentaise rat run \u2013 the road between Geneva and the French Alps soon overfamiliar to frequent visitors \u2013 in full bloom, the monochrome of Lake Annecy and the gradually gathering mountains swapped for turquoise water and lush green forests flecked with gold and red. And the temperate theme extends alarmingly high. By the time I reach Tignes les Boisses' H\u00f4tel Les M\u00e9l\u00e8zes at 1,850m, of the craggy peaks crowding the wraparound views, only the Grande Sassi\u00e8re across the Is\u00e8re valley shows any snow.I'm here for the ski and snowboard test camp jointly run by tour operator MountainSun and ski and board hire company Edge 2 Edge. Part of the vast Espace Killy ski area which is also home to Val d'Is\u00e8re, the Grande Motte glacier above Tignes hosts skiing almost all year round, and, after its three-week autumn closure, the 25 guests gathering on the last weekend of September for a pre-dinner drink in the chalet hotel's snug bar are its first visitors of this winter. Running until 13 December, the camp has an eye-catching price tag \u2013 the standard package of three nights' catered accommodation, three-day lift pass, airport transfers and use of new-season boards, bindings, skis and boots by top brands starts at \u00a399.I'm not first on the slopes, possibly because of chef and hotel manager Roger's generosity with the Talisker single malt after dinner. But my timing is good. At 10.30am I board the funicular railway, which bores 3.5km through the mountain before emerging into swirling grey cloud. Thankfully, it has evaporated by the time the Grande Motte cable car carries me to 3,456m and the glacier's highest skiable point.Tignes' out-of-season skiing can offer up to 20km of piste \u2013 I share five open runs with a couple of kids' teams on race training and around 50 other downhillers. A couple of snowfalls have dusted the glacier, but it still has a grey palour. Still, this is unmistakably an Alp, and a mighty one. Unsweetened by their more familiar winterwear of several million tons of whiteness, the raw, angular ridges and peaks of Grande Casse, Mont Pourri and the Mont Blanc range layer into a stupefying panorama. And, it occurs to me as I make my first carves, I could blow the cost of this whole trip in four hours on Tamworth SnowDome's 170m of indoor, man-made snow.The last time I was at Tamworth, I don't remember having brand-new, high-end kit chucked my way either. The Edge 2 Edge team are pioneers of a new service that lets you order or be fitted in the UK then have your equipment delivered to resorts in the Tarentaise region, bringing to the camp new-season boards, skis and boots by Burton, Head, Salomon, Scott, Atomic and more. Thanks to them, I finally get to ride Lib Tech's Skate Banana snowboard, whose radical \"reverse camber\" construction made such an impact it was near impossible to lay hands on one for its first two seasons. The seven points of contact provided by its subtly bumpy outline give amazing control and make breezy work of Grand Motte's crunchy-then-mushy covering. Before I know it, I'm being chased down the mountain by ski patrol, the last man down. \"I know,\" grins ski tech Matt when I swap my Banana for a Burton at the end of the day. \"It feels like you're cheating, doesn't it?'\" (See the new version in Latest Kit, page 10).Down in the valley too, the camp punches above its weight. A ten-minute shuttle ride from the main base station (and linked during heavier snow by the Les Boisses lift to Espace Killy's 300km of runs), Les M\u00e9l\u00e8zes is a simple, spotlessly clean 20-room chalet hotel with the usual alpine extras like hot tub, sun terrace and sauna plus a Wii, Wi-Fi and Sky TV. Served in a dining room whose large windows reveal spectacular views of the valley, Roger's food is, for the price, frankly astounding. Dinners include whole poussin with orange zest gravy, herb-crusted rack of lamb with dauphinoise gratin and roasted veg, and seared fillet of pork with wholegrain mustard and mushroom sauce. And the throng who fill the bar, many pre-bonded by previous trips with MountainSun (its repeat rate for guests averages about 60%) variously enjoy relaxed and borderline riotous evenings, side by side. The prices help \u2013 here a pint of beer will cost you \u20ac4.50 against the valley average of \u20ac6. This trip's only reminders of in-season fiscal realities are at the Panoramic mountain restaurant, the only one open at this time of year, where coffee costs \u20ac3.60.On this, the inaugural outing of the three-year-old camp's 2009 run, there's even the opportunity to trade in my last afternoon's skiing for Franceraft Savoie's final white water rafting excursion of the season out of Bourg Saint Maurice (for a \u20ac60 supplement). Surrounded by flitting birds, dappled sunshine and the dramatic cliffs of the La Pucelle gorge, the 22km, rapids-studded stretch of the Is\u00e8re river adds another satisfying snowsports holiday first to the tally. And with my bags waiting for me in the MountainSun transfer bus at the end, that run back to the airport is neatly snapped into two palatable halves.\u2022 MountainSun (skiandboardcamp.com; mountainsunltd.com) and Edge 2 Edge's (edge2edge.co.uk) three-day, three-night ski and snowboard test camps start at \u00a399 including catered accommodation, transfers from Geneva, lift passes and equipment. Reflecting the increasing lift prices as new snow opens up more of the ski area, prices rise to \u00a3125 in November and \u00a3149 in December. In full winter season, MountainSun also offers three- and four-day breaks starting all week, as well as week-long packages to various resorts, from \u00a3139 for four nights.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Flights", "Travel", "Food and drink", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "Early season skiing in France"},{"date": "2009-12-14T08:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those of us brought up in the high-rise, low-expectation housing projects surrounding Paris will have our very own Norman Tebbit-style nationality test this summer. Thanks to both France and Algeria qualifying for the football World Cup finals it's going to be a straight choice between blue and green \u2013 Les Bleus representing our parents' adopted homeland, or Les Verts from the former colony where they were born.Both countries qualified for the competition on the same night last month, with wild celebrations on the Champs Elys\u00e9es apparently conforming to the \"troubled communities\" clich\u00e9 which currently dominates French thinking. First generation North African immigrants from les banlieues could not, according to the Paris establishment, accept the tricolour's dominance over the star and crescent moon flag of Islam. Instead there were loud choruses of \"One, two, three, Viva l'Alg\u00e9rie\", much provocative horn blowing, and the dastardly firing-up of a couple of wheelie bins before the riot squads of the secular Fifth Republic moved in with their truncheons and tear gas.Such predictable scenes will be repeated across France as next summer's sporting extravaganza unfolds, convincing Nicolas Sarkozy that Tebbit's \"cricket test\" of 1990 was spot on. Then British Asians were encouraged to cheer for England rather than India or Pakistan during tense bat-and-ball internationals, while this time round the president will expect us all to rally behind the one, true France.Ridiculously simple, of course, but that's the way it is in my country at the moment. A massively divisive National Identity Debate is doing more to stir up anger and resentment than any dunderheaded football yob ever could. Intended to reaffirm \"pride in being French\", it is accompanied by a drive to make schoolchildren sing La Marseillaise, and to get adults to take civic tests to which the multiple choice answers are always \"Charles de Gaulle\", \"Austerlitz\" or \"1998\".Sarkozy honestly believes that banal exams and sports fan-style shouting matches will uncover the \"core values\" which bind us. If those of us originating from overseas can see beyond the unemployment, discrimination and other social problems blighting our suburban ghettoes then \u2013 the reasoning goes \u2013 we will feel more like integrated citizens.In fact, there are thousands of Algerians who support the French football team, just as a vast majority of the country's six million Muslims are committed to republican values and laws. Many of those on the Champs Elys\u00e9es were celebrating two World Cup qualifications, with the \"Allez les Bleus\" chant as prevalent as its Algerian equivalent. Zinedine Zidane, the World Cup hero, is typical of the kind of Frenchman with North African antecedents who remains happy in both camps. Like many Muslims, \"Zizou\" believes he can be a fan of any team he chooses yet still remain faithful to his culture and beliefs.The premise of Sarkozy's argument, in contrast, is that there is only one team, one identity, and therefore one loyalty. The level of the debate he has inspired can be found in the torrent of racial abuse which has flooded an internet site especially opened by Eric Besson, the immigration and national identity minister. In true Gallic style, it was meant to spark the discussion with interesting philosophical and sociological observations. Instead the most noteworthy contributions to date have included comments like \"France is for Christians\" and \"Being French means eating pork and not wearing a burqa\".This boorish, simplistic lead was naturally followed by Sarkozy, who wrote a column on the front page of Le Monde encouraging all devout French people \"to practise their religion in humble discretion\". The warning \u2013 and that's what it was \u2013 was clearly directed at troublesome Muslim communities, with Sarkozy even praising the Swiss for trying to ban minarets.Such pettiness prompted Sarkozy's erstwhile political ally, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, the former prime minister, to describe the identity debate as a \"bar-room discussion\" with \"no intellectual rigour\". Far from being a \"noble device\" aimed at pulling the country together, he suggested it was designed to win Sarkozy support among xenophobic and racist voters disillusioned by the ailing National Front party before the coming regional elections.It won't work. People can't be defined as one-dimensional. Suggesting otherwise is like trying to see the world in blue and green.", "tags": ["Race issues", "World Cup 2010", "France", "France", "Football", "World news", "Europe", "World Cup"], "title": "Taking sides in France | Nabila Ramdani"},{"date": "2009-12-10T13:42:50Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Times has appointed the Observer's Louise France as editor of its Saturday supplement, the Magazine.France has been working as deputy editor of the Observer Woman and Observer Food Monthly magazines.She will join her former colleague Nicola Jeal, who left her job as the Observer's head of magazines become the Times' weekend editor earlier this year.France's departure follows a decision by the Observer's owner, Guardian News & Media, which also publishes MediaGuardian.co.uk, to close Observer Woman and other monthly magazines on sport and music as part of a review of operations. The company is to keep Observer Food Monthly going.In her time at the GNM title, France also worked as deputy editor of the Observer magazine and then as editor of its Review section.Her earlier career involved spells at the Daily Mail, Independent and Independent on Sunday.\"Louise is a dynamic journalist who brings a wide range of experience to this role, whether from glossy magazines or newspaper supplements,\" said the Times editor, James Harding.\"She is an original thinker with wide cultural references who can build great relationships with top writers. We are delighted she is joining the paper.\"\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "The Observer", "Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Media", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Observer's Louise France joins Times"},{"date": "2009-10-03T23:08:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "Suddenly, I know how Posh feels \u2013 what to wear to the airport? Not, in my case, because I need to assemble yet another fabulous couture ensemble for the awaiting paparazzi, but because it's one of those scorching late September days Britain sometimes serves up by way of apology for another underwhelming summer. And I'm going snowboarding.It's a strange feeling to do the Tarentaise rat run \u2013 the road between Geneva and the French Alps soon overfamiliar to frequent visitors \u2013 in full bloom, the monochrome of Lake Annecy and the gradually gathering mountains swapped for turquoise water and lush green forests flecked with gold and red. And the temperate theme extends alarmingly high. By the time I reach Tignes les Boisses' H\u00f4tel Les M\u00e9l\u00e8zes at 1,850m, of the craggy peaks crowding the wraparound views, only the Grande Sassi\u00e8re across the Is\u00e8re valley shows any snow.I'm here for the ski and snowboard test camp jointly run by tour operator MountainSun and ski and board hire company Edge 2 Edge. Part of the vast Espace Killy ski area which is also home to Val d'Is\u00e8re, the Grande Motte glacier above Tignes hosts skiing almost all year round, and, after its three-week autumn closure, the 25 guests gathering on the last weekend of September for a pre-dinner drink in the chalet hotel's snug bar are its first visitors of this winter. Running until 13 December, the camp has an eye-catching price tag \u2013 the standard package of three nights' catered accommodation, three-day lift pass, airport transfers and use of new-season boards, bindings, skis and boots by top brands starts at \u00a399.I'm not first on the slopes, possibly because of chef and hotel manager Roger's generosity with the Talisker single malt after dinner. But my timing is good. At 10.30am I board the funicular railway, which bores 3.5km through the mountain before emerging into swirling grey cloud. Thankfully, it has evaporated by the time the Grande Motte cable car carries me to 3,456m and the glacier's highest skiable point.Tignes' out-of-season skiing can offer up to 20km of piste \u2013 I share five open runs with a couple of kids' teams on race training and around 50 other downhillers. A couple of snowfalls have dusted the glacier, but it still has a grey palour. Still, this is unmistakably an Alp, and a mighty one. Unsweetened by their more familiar winterwear of several million tons of whiteness, the raw, angular ridges and peaks of Grande Casse, Mont Pourri and the Mont Blanc range layer into a stupefying panorama. And, it occurs to me as I make my first carves, I could blow the cost of this whole trip in four hours on Tamworth SnowDome's 170m of indoor, man-made snow.The last time I was at Tamworth, I don't remember having brand-new, high-end kit chucked my way either. The Edge 2 Edge team are pioneers of a new service that lets you order or be fitted in the UK then have your equipment delivered to resorts in the Tarentaise region, bringing to the camp new-season boards, skis and boots by Burton, Head, Salomon, Scott, Atomic and more. Thanks to them, I finally get to ride Lib Tech's Skate Banana snowboard, whose radical \"reverse camber\" construction made such an impact it was near impossible to lay hands on one for its first two seasons. The seven points of contact provided by its subtly bumpy outline give amazing control and make breezy work of Grand Motte's crunchy-then-mushy covering. Before I know it, I'm being chased down the mountain by ski patrol, the last man down. \"I know,\" grins ski tech Matt when I swap my Banana for a Burton at the end of the day. \"It feels like you're cheating, doesn't it?'\" (See the new version in Latest Kit, page 10).Down in the valley too, the camp punches above its weight. A ten-minute shuttle ride from the main base station (and linked during heavier snow by the Les Boisses lift to Espace Killy's 300km of runs), Les M\u00e9l\u00e8zes is a simple, spotlessly clean 20-room chalet hotel with the usual alpine extras like hot tub, sun terrace and sauna plus a Wii, Wi-Fi and Sky TV. Served in a dining room whose large windows reveal spectacular views of the valley, Roger's food is, for the price, frankly astounding. Dinners include whole poussin with orange zest gravy, herb-crusted rack of lamb with dauphinoise gratin and roasted veg, and seared fillet of pork with wholegrain mustard and mushroom sauce. And the throng who fill the bar, many pre-bonded by previous trips with MountainSun (its repeat rate for guests averages about 60%) variously enjoy relaxed and borderline riotous evenings, side by side. The prices help \u2013 here a pint of beer will cost you \u20ac4.50 against the valley average of \u20ac6. This trip's only reminders of in-season fiscal realities are at the Panoramic mountain restaurant, the only one open at this time of year, where coffee costs \u20ac3.60.On this, the inaugural outing of the three-year-old camp's 2009 run, there's even the opportunity to trade in my last afternoon's skiing for Franceraft Savoie's final white water rafting excursion of the season out of Bourg Saint Maurice (for a \u20ac60 supplement). Surrounded by flitting birds, dappled sunshine and the dramatic cliffs of the La Pucelle gorge, the 22km, rapids-studded stretch of the Is\u00e8re river adds another satisfying snowsports holiday first to the tally. And with my bags waiting for me in the MountainSun transfer bus at the end, that run back to the airport is neatly snapped into two palatable halves.\u2022 MountainSun (skiandboardcamp.com; mountainsunltd.com) and Edge 2 Edge's (edge2edge.co.uk) three-day, three-night ski and snowboard test camps start at \u00a399 including catered accommodation, transfers from Geneva, lift passes and equipment. Reflecting the increasing lift prices as new snow opens up more of the ski area, prices rise to \u00a3125 in November and \u00a3149 in December. In full winter season, MountainSun also offers three- and four-day breaks starting all week, as well as week-long packages to various resorts, from \u00a3139 for four nights.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Flights", "Travel", "Food and drink", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "Early season skiing in France"},{"date": "2009-12-17T09:00:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "Hundreds of Vietnamese followers of a radical Buddhist leader have called on the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, to grant them temporary asylum, a week after they were attacked by vigilantes allegedly hired by the Vietnamese authorities.Representatives of the followers yesterday urged Sarkozy to grant them asylum \"until it is safe for them to return to Vietnam to practise their faith, together\".About 380 young monks and nuns were forced to flee Bat Nha monastery in central Lam Dong province at the end of September after the authorities reacted angrily to a call by their exiled spiritual leader, Thich Nhat Hanh, to end religious intolerance and disband the country's notorious A41 religious police.Supporters say that several monks were beaten and four were sexually assaulted, while two others were held under house arrest without charge.The year long standoff between the Buddhists and the Vietnamese authorities took another violent turn last week when the government sealed off a temple where 200 followers had been taking refuge.A 100-strong armed mob, allegedly directed by undercover police and communist party officials, assaulted the occupants and attempted to clear them from Phuoc Hue pagoda in Lam Dong province.The attack forced an EU delegation to abandon a fact-finding mission to the temple, and the abbot, Thich Thai Thuan, was forced to write a note urging the followers to leave the temple by the end of the year.\"They pressured me to sign the paper to evict the monastic,\" he told Radio France. \"They forced me, so I had to sign.\"Campaigners said the attacks were proof of Vietnam's contempt for human rights and called on the international community to take action.\"Vietnam's international donors should insist that the government halt the attacks on the monks and nuns in Lam Dong, allow them to practise their religion, and prevent any further violent expulsions,\" said Elaine Pearson, deputy Asia director of Human Rights Watch.\"And they should make clear they will keep close tabs on the situation.\"The EU, one of Vietnam's biggest donors, pledged $1bn in aid earlier this month, but pressed the government to lift its restrictions on the media and permit religious freedoms and political dissent.\"The vigilante action to prevent diplomats from meeting with the monks and nuns is a real slap in the face to the EU,\" Pearson said. \"The EU needs to make clear that it has leverage and will use it.\"The EU delegation was sent after the European parliament passed a resolution last month condemning the Buddhists' violent expulsion.Nhat Hanh helped popularise Buddhism in the west and was nominated for the Nobel peace prize by Martin Luther King.His followers, who describe themselves as the \"most radical and fastest growing\" in Vietnam, say the government regards their leader as a threat to its authority.He was forced to leave the former South Vietnam in 1965 because of his opposition to the Vietnam war.During his exile in France he sold millions of books and brought Buddhist thought to a new audience in the west through his Zen teachings and peace activism.His return to Vietnam in 2005 \u2013 with the government's blessing \u2013 after 39 years in exile raised hopes for a new era of religious freedom in the country.All religious activity remains under state control, but the government insists it respects the freedom to worship and described the recent attacks as a dispute between rival Buddhist groups.", "tags": ["Vietnam", "France", "Buddhism", "Religion", "Human rights", "European Union", "World news", "Law", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Vietnamese Buddhists seek asylum in France"},{"date": "2009-12-14T08:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those of us brought up in the high-rise, low-expectation housing projects surrounding Paris will have our very own Norman Tebbit-style nationality test this summer. Thanks to both France and Algeria qualifying for the football World Cup finals it's going to be a straight choice between blue and green \u2013 Les Bleus representing our parents' adopted homeland, or Les Verts from the former colony where they were born.Both countries qualified for the competition on the same night last month, with wild celebrations on the Champs Elys\u00e9es apparently conforming to the \"troubled communities\" clich\u00e9 which currently dominates French thinking. First generation North African immigrants from les banlieues could not, according to the Paris establishment, accept the tricolour's dominance over the star and crescent moon flag of Islam. Instead there were loud choruses of \"One, two, three, Viva l'Alg\u00e9rie\", much provocative horn blowing, and the dastardly firing-up of a couple of wheelie bins before the riot squads of the secular Fifth Republic moved in with their truncheons and tear gas.Such predictable scenes will be repeated across France as next summer's sporting extravaganza unfolds, convincing Nicolas Sarkozy that Tebbit's \"cricket test\" of 1990 was spot on. Then British Asians were encouraged to cheer for England rather than India or Pakistan during tense bat-and-ball internationals, while this time round the president will expect us all to rally behind the one, true France.Ridiculously simple, of course, but that's the way it is in my country at the moment. A massively divisive National Identity Debate is doing more to stir up anger and resentment than any dunderheaded football yob ever could. Intended to reaffirm \"pride in being French\", it is accompanied by a drive to make schoolchildren sing La Marseillaise, and to get adults to take civic tests to which the multiple choice answers are always \"Charles de Gaulle\", \"Austerlitz\" or \"1998\".Sarkozy honestly believes that banal exams and sports fan-style shouting matches will uncover the \"core values\" which bind us. If those of us originating from overseas can see beyond the unemployment, discrimination and other social problems blighting our suburban ghettoes then \u2013 the reasoning goes \u2013 we will feel more like integrated citizens.In fact, there are thousands of Algerians who support the French football team, just as a vast majority of the country's six million Muslims are committed to republican values and laws. Many of those on the Champs Elys\u00e9es were celebrating two World Cup qualifications, with the \"Allez les Bleus\" chant as prevalent as its Algerian equivalent. Zinedine Zidane, the World Cup hero, is typical of the kind of Frenchman with North African antecedents who remains happy in both camps. Like many Muslims, \"Zizou\" believes he can be a fan of any team he chooses yet still remain faithful to his culture and beliefs.The premise of Sarkozy's argument, in contrast, is that there is only one team, one identity, and therefore one loyalty. The level of the debate he has inspired can be found in the torrent of racial abuse which has flooded an internet site especially opened by Eric Besson, the immigration and national identity minister. In true Gallic style, it was meant to spark the discussion with interesting philosophical and sociological observations. Instead the most noteworthy contributions to date have included comments like \"France is for Christians\" and \"Being French means eating pork and not wearing a burqa\".This boorish, simplistic lead was naturally followed by Sarkozy, who wrote a column on the front page of Le Monde encouraging all devout French people \"to practise their religion in humble discretion\". The warning \u2013 and that's what it was \u2013 was clearly directed at troublesome Muslim communities, with Sarkozy even praising the Swiss for trying to ban minarets.Such pettiness prompted Sarkozy's erstwhile political ally, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, the former prime minister, to describe the identity debate as a \"bar-room discussion\" with \"no intellectual rigour\". Far from being a \"noble device\" aimed at pulling the country together, he suggested it was designed to win Sarkozy support among xenophobic and racist voters disillusioned by the ailing National Front party before the coming regional elections.It won't work. People can't be defined as one-dimensional. Suggesting otherwise is like trying to see the world in blue and green.", "tags": ["Race issues", "World Cup 2010", "France", "France", "Football", "World news", "Europe", "World Cup"], "title": "Taking sides in France | Nabila Ramdani"},{"date": "2009-12-10T13:42:50Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Times has appointed the Observer's Louise France as editor of its Saturday supplement, the Magazine.France has been working as deputy editor of the Observer Woman and Observer Food Monthly magazines.She will join her former colleague Nicola Jeal, who left her job as the Observer's head of magazines become the Times' weekend editor earlier this year.France's departure follows a decision by the Observer's owner, Guardian News & Media, which also publishes MediaGuardian.co.uk, to close Observer Woman and other monthly magazines on sport and music as part of a review of operations. The company is to keep Observer Food Monthly going.In her time at the GNM title, France also worked as deputy editor of the Observer magazine and then as editor of its Review section.Her earlier career involved spells at the Daily Mail, Independent and Independent on Sunday.\"Louise is a dynamic journalist who brings a wide range of experience to this role, whether from glossy magazines or newspaper supplements,\" said the Times editor, James Harding.\"She is an original thinker with wide cultural references who can build great relationships with top writers. We are delighted she is joining the paper.\"\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "The Observer", "Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Media", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Observer's Louise France joins Times"},{"date": "2009-10-03T23:08:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "Suddenly, I know how Posh feels \u2013 what to wear to the airport? Not, in my case, because I need to assemble yet another fabulous couture ensemble for the awaiting paparazzi, but because it's one of those scorching late September days Britain sometimes serves up by way of apology for another underwhelming summer. And I'm going snowboarding.It's a strange feeling to do the Tarentaise rat run \u2013 the road between Geneva and the French Alps soon overfamiliar to frequent visitors \u2013 in full bloom, the monochrome of Lake Annecy and the gradually gathering mountains swapped for turquoise water and lush green forests flecked with gold and red. And the temperate theme extends alarmingly high. By the time I reach Tignes les Boisses' H\u00f4tel Les M\u00e9l\u00e8zes at 1,850m, of the craggy peaks crowding the wraparound views, only the Grande Sassi\u00e8re across the Is\u00e8re valley shows any snow.I'm here for the ski and snowboard test camp jointly run by tour operator MountainSun and ski and board hire company Edge 2 Edge. Part of the vast Espace Killy ski area which is also home to Val d'Is\u00e8re, the Grande Motte glacier above Tignes hosts skiing almost all year round, and, after its three-week autumn closure, the 25 guests gathering on the last weekend of September for a pre-dinner drink in the chalet hotel's snug bar are its first visitors of this winter. Running until 13 December, the camp has an eye-catching price tag \u2013 the standard package of three nights' catered accommodation, three-day lift pass, airport transfers and use of new-season boards, bindings, skis and boots by top brands starts at \u00a399.I'm not first on the slopes, possibly because of chef and hotel manager Roger's generosity with the Talisker single malt after dinner. But my timing is good. At 10.30am I board the funicular railway, which bores 3.5km through the mountain before emerging into swirling grey cloud. Thankfully, it has evaporated by the time the Grande Motte cable car carries me to 3,456m and the glacier's highest skiable point.Tignes' out-of-season skiing can offer up to 20km of piste \u2013 I share five open runs with a couple of kids' teams on race training and around 50 other downhillers. A couple of snowfalls have dusted the glacier, but it still has a grey palour. Still, this is unmistakably an Alp, and a mighty one. Unsweetened by their more familiar winterwear of several million tons of whiteness, the raw, angular ridges and peaks of Grande Casse, Mont Pourri and the Mont Blanc range layer into a stupefying panorama. And, it occurs to me as I make my first carves, I could blow the cost of this whole trip in four hours on Tamworth SnowDome's 170m of indoor, man-made snow.The last time I was at Tamworth, I don't remember having brand-new, high-end kit chucked my way either. The Edge 2 Edge team are pioneers of a new service that lets you order or be fitted in the UK then have your equipment delivered to resorts in the Tarentaise region, bringing to the camp new-season boards, skis and boots by Burton, Head, Salomon, Scott, Atomic and more. Thanks to them, I finally get to ride Lib Tech's Skate Banana snowboard, whose radical \"reverse camber\" construction made such an impact it was near impossible to lay hands on one for its first two seasons. The seven points of contact provided by its subtly bumpy outline give amazing control and make breezy work of Grand Motte's crunchy-then-mushy covering. Before I know it, I'm being chased down the mountain by ski patrol, the last man down. \"I know,\" grins ski tech Matt when I swap my Banana for a Burton at the end of the day. \"It feels like you're cheating, doesn't it?'\" (See the new version in Latest Kit, page 10).Down in the valley too, the camp punches above its weight. A ten-minute shuttle ride from the main base station (and linked during heavier snow by the Les Boisses lift to Espace Killy's 300km of runs), Les M\u00e9l\u00e8zes is a simple, spotlessly clean 20-room chalet hotel with the usual alpine extras like hot tub, sun terrace and sauna plus a Wii, Wi-Fi and Sky TV. Served in a dining room whose large windows reveal spectacular views of the valley, Roger's food is, for the price, frankly astounding. Dinners include whole poussin with orange zest gravy, herb-crusted rack of lamb with dauphinoise gratin and roasted veg, and seared fillet of pork with wholegrain mustard and mushroom sauce. And the throng who fill the bar, many pre-bonded by previous trips with MountainSun (its repeat rate for guests averages about 60%) variously enjoy relaxed and borderline riotous evenings, side by side. The prices help \u2013 here a pint of beer will cost you \u20ac4.50 against the valley average of \u20ac6. This trip's only reminders of in-season fiscal realities are at the Panoramic mountain restaurant, the only one open at this time of year, where coffee costs \u20ac3.60.On this, the inaugural outing of the three-year-old camp's 2009 run, there's even the opportunity to trade in my last afternoon's skiing for Franceraft Savoie's final white water rafting excursion of the season out of Bourg Saint Maurice (for a \u20ac60 supplement). Surrounded by flitting birds, dappled sunshine and the dramatic cliffs of the La Pucelle gorge, the 22km, rapids-studded stretch of the Is\u00e8re river adds another satisfying snowsports holiday first to the tally. And with my bags waiting for me in the MountainSun transfer bus at the end, that run back to the airport is neatly snapped into two palatable halves.\u2022 MountainSun (skiandboardcamp.com; mountainsunltd.com) and Edge 2 Edge's (edge2edge.co.uk) three-day, three-night ski and snowboard test camps start at \u00a399 including catered accommodation, transfers from Geneva, lift passes and equipment. Reflecting the increasing lift prices as new snow opens up more of the ski area, prices rise to \u00a3125 in November and \u00a3149 in December. In full winter season, MountainSun also offers three- and four-day breaks starting all week, as well as week-long packages to various resorts, from \u00a3139 for four nights.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Flights", "Travel", "Food and drink", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "Early season skiing in France"},{"date": "2009-12-17T09:00:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "Hundreds of Vietnamese followers of a radical Buddhist leader have called on the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, to grant them temporary asylum, a week after they were attacked by vigilantes allegedly hired by the Vietnamese authorities.Representatives of the followers yesterday urged Sarkozy to grant them asylum \"until it is safe for them to return to Vietnam to practise their faith, together\".About 380 young monks and nuns were forced to flee Bat Nha monastery in central Lam Dong province at the end of September after the authorities reacted angrily to a call by their exiled spiritual leader, Thich Nhat Hanh, to end religious intolerance and disband the country's notorious A41 religious police.Supporters say that several monks were beaten and four were sexually assaulted, while two others were held under house arrest without charge.The year long standoff between the Buddhists and the Vietnamese authorities took another violent turn last week when the government sealed off a temple where 200 followers had been taking refuge.A 100-strong armed mob, allegedly directed by undercover police and communist party officials, assaulted the occupants and attempted to clear them from Phuoc Hue pagoda in Lam Dong province.The attack forced an EU delegation to abandon a fact-finding mission to the temple, and the abbot, Thich Thai Thuan, was forced to write a note urging the followers to leave the temple by the end of the year.\"They pressured me to sign the paper to evict the monastic,\" he told Radio France. \"They forced me, so I had to sign.\"Campaigners said the attacks were proof of Vietnam's contempt for human rights and called on the international community to take action.\"Vietnam's international donors should insist that the government halt the attacks on the monks and nuns in Lam Dong, allow them to practise their religion, and prevent any further violent expulsions,\" said Elaine Pearson, deputy Asia director of Human Rights Watch.\"And they should make clear they will keep close tabs on the situation.\"The EU, one of Vietnam's biggest donors, pledged $1bn in aid earlier this month, but pressed the government to lift its restrictions on the media and permit religious freedoms and political dissent.\"The vigilante action to prevent diplomats from meeting with the monks and nuns is a real slap in the face to the EU,\" Pearson said. \"The EU needs to make clear that it has leverage and will use it.\"The EU delegation was sent after the European parliament passed a resolution last month condemning the Buddhists' violent expulsion.Nhat Hanh helped popularise Buddhism in the west and was nominated for the Nobel peace prize by Martin Luther King.His followers, who describe themselves as the \"most radical and fastest growing\" in Vietnam, say the government regards their leader as a threat to its authority.He was forced to leave the former South Vietnam in 1965 because of his opposition to the Vietnam war.During his exile in France he sold millions of books and brought Buddhist thought to a new audience in the west through his Zen teachings and peace activism.His return to Vietnam in 2005 \u2013 with the government's blessing \u2013 after 39 years in exile raised hopes for a new era of religious freedom in the country.All religious activity remains under state control, but the government insists it respects the freedom to worship and described the recent attacks as a dispute between rival Buddhist groups.", "tags": ["Vietnam", "France", "Buddhism", "Religion", "Human rights", "European Union", "World news", "Law", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Vietnamese Buddhists seek asylum in France"},{"date": "2009-12-10T21:02:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "Gordon Brown claimed a victory for the government tonight after securing the support of France and Germany for its supertax on City bonuses amid signs that major Wall Street firms were attempting to prevent a similar clampdown by the Obama administration.Goldman Sachs, the highest profile firm on Wall Street, became the first to blink in the face of the public outcry over its expected handout of \u00a314bn in pay and bonuses this year, by suspending cash bonuses for its top 30 executives.The decision, which will affect six of its executives in London, is expected to set the tone for rivals on Wall Street and could send ripples across the Atlantic. It is believed to be among the options being considered by Barclays as part of a review of remuneration.The warm international reception for Brown's bonus tax held out the prospect that the prime minister could secure a much-needed political boost, as he did when other countries followed his lead on recapitalising the banks last year.The momentum building up in Europe behind the clampdown on bonuses followed conversations between Treasury officials and those in G7 countries on Wednesday after the pre-budget report outlined the 50% tax on bankers' bonuses of more than \u00a325,000.President Nicolas Sarkozy of France decided to follow the UK in imposing the one-off penalties on bonuses over \u20ac27,000 after weeks of feuding between London and Paris over the regulation of European markets.He had met Brown in Brussels today on the fringes of an EU summit to bury the hatchet after co-authoring an article calling for a global deal on the way banks behave.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also sounded sympathetic to the British initiative. She said it was a \"charming idea\" and showed how others could \"learn from the City of London\".While a Downing Street spokesman appeared optimistic that Germany would also follow suit, senior German sources cautioned that despite the sympathetic noises from Berlin, Merkel would not, for legal reasons, be able to replicate the banker-bashing.Brown said: \"I think the French agreement to support what we are doing on one-off bonuses is very important. There is a one-off national insurance premium to be paid by the City, and that will happen in France as well.\"I believe other countries will now want to look at it and we have also an agreement in the international community to look at the relationship between banks and the service they owe to society. France is very supportive on that. The debate in the international community will move forward.\"Merkel prefers a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions, which Brown is attempting to persuade major leaders to endorse.In a letter to the other 26 EU heads of government, Brown said: \"The EU should work actively with our international partners to develop proposals to ensure a better balance of risks, rewards and responsibility between society and the financial sector.\"The US administration is opposed to a Tobin tax but is facing calls to copy the UK's payroll tax on bonuses \u2013 a move that has been greeted with concern in US banking circles.\"Goldman Sachs is worried. They're worried about the public reaction to bonuses they're paying in the worst recession since the war,\" said Alan Charney, programme director for US Action, a union-backed campaign group.The US treasury declined to comment today on its view of Britain's tax on bonuses, although a handful of left-leaning members of Congress have called for a similar levy in the US.Total bonus payouts on Wall Street are due to rise by 40% to $26bn this year. The Obama administration has appointed a so-called \"compensation tsar\", Kenneth Feinberg, to examine pay policies, although his remit extends only to banks being propped up by bailout funds.Steve Hall, a New York-based pay consultant who advises American companies on devising remuneration, said there was concern at the prospect of Brown's tax gaining international impetus after France's decision to follow Britain's lead: \"This is spreading \u2013 this is worse than swine flu.\"In lieu of cash payments, the Goldman executives will receive shares. Under enhanced \"clawback\" powers, the bank will be able to reclaim shares from any employees found to have inflicted \"material financial harm\" on its businesses. And in an unprecedented move for a major US bank, Goldman will put its remuneration policies before a yearly \"say on pay\" vote by shareholders at its annual meetings.A Goldman spokesman said the bank had taken public opinion into consideration: \"The motivation was that these are extraordinary times, that the firm has done well and that that has excited a great deal of comment and not a little criticism.\"Before the financial crisis hit, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, was the best-paid bank boss on Wall Street, taking home $68.5m in 2007, while two of his top lieutenants earned $67.5m each. The US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, recently pointed out that Goldman would have collapsed had it not been for the US government's support of the industry.President Obama will host a meeting at the White House on Monday with banking chiefs including the heads of Goldman, Citigroup and Bank of America, where pay policies are sure to be on the agenda.In the City, warnings that the tax would result in an exodus of star players were matched by those insisting that the supertax would be easy to dodge.", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Economic policy", "Pre-budget report", "Economics", "Goldman Sachs", "UK news", "France", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Politics", "Tax", "Gordon Brown", "Pre-budget report 2009", "Europe"], "title": "France and Germany back UK bonus tax"},{"date": "2009-12-14T08:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those of us brought up in the high-rise, low-expectation housing projects surrounding Paris will have our very own Norman Tebbit-style nationality test this summer. Thanks to both France and Algeria qualifying for the football World Cup finals it's going to be a straight choice between blue and green \u2013 Les Bleus representing our parents' adopted homeland, or Les Verts from the former colony where they were born.Both countries qualified for the competition on the same night last month, with wild celebrations on the Champs Elys\u00e9es apparently conforming to the \"troubled communities\" clich\u00e9 which currently dominates French thinking. First generation North African immigrants from les banlieues could not, according to the Paris establishment, accept the tricolour's dominance over the star and crescent moon flag of Islam. Instead there were loud choruses of \"One, two, three, Viva l'Alg\u00e9rie\", much provocative horn blowing, and the dastardly firing-up of a couple of wheelie bins before the riot squads of the secular Fifth Republic moved in with their truncheons and tear gas.Such predictable scenes will be repeated across France as next summer's sporting extravaganza unfolds, convincing Nicolas Sarkozy that Tebbit's \"cricket test\" of 1990 was spot on. Then British Asians were encouraged to cheer for England rather than India or Pakistan during tense bat-and-ball internationals, while this time round the president will expect us all to rally behind the one, true France.Ridiculously simple, of course, but that's the way it is in my country at the moment. A massively divisive National Identity Debate is doing more to stir up anger and resentment than any dunderheaded football yob ever could. Intended to reaffirm \"pride in being French\", it is accompanied by a drive to make schoolchildren sing La Marseillaise, and to get adults to take civic tests to which the multiple choice answers are always \"Charles de Gaulle\", \"Austerlitz\" or \"1998\".Sarkozy honestly believes that banal exams and sports fan-style shouting matches will uncover the \"core values\" which bind us. If those of us originating from overseas can see beyond the unemployment, discrimination and other social problems blighting our suburban ghettoes then \u2013 the reasoning goes \u2013 we will feel more like integrated citizens.In fact, there are thousands of Algerians who support the French football team, just as a vast majority of the country's six million Muslims are committed to republican values and laws. Many of those on the Champs Elys\u00e9es were celebrating two World Cup qualifications, with the \"Allez les Bleus\" chant as prevalent as its Algerian equivalent. Zinedine Zidane, the World Cup hero, is typical of the kind of Frenchman with North African antecedents who remains happy in both camps. Like many Muslims, \"Zizou\" believes he can be a fan of any team he chooses yet still remain faithful to his culture and beliefs.The premise of Sarkozy's argument, in contrast, is that there is only one team, one identity, and therefore one loyalty. The level of the debate he has inspired can be found in the torrent of racial abuse which has flooded an internet site especially opened by Eric Besson, the immigration and national identity minister. In true Gallic style, it was meant to spark the discussion with interesting philosophical and sociological observations. Instead the most noteworthy contributions to date have included comments like \"France is for Christians\" and \"Being French means eating pork and not wearing a burqa\".This boorish, simplistic lead was naturally followed by Sarkozy, who wrote a column on the front page of Le Monde encouraging all devout French people \"to practise their religion in humble discretion\". The warning \u2013 and that's what it was \u2013 was clearly directed at troublesome Muslim communities, with Sarkozy even praising the Swiss for trying to ban minarets.Such pettiness prompted Sarkozy's erstwhile political ally, Jean-Pierre Raffarin, the former prime minister, to describe the identity debate as a \"bar-room discussion\" with \"no intellectual rigour\". Far from being a \"noble device\" aimed at pulling the country together, he suggested it was designed to win Sarkozy support among xenophobic and racist voters disillusioned by the ailing National Front party before the coming regional elections.It won't work. People can't be defined as one-dimensional. Suggesting otherwise is like trying to see the world in blue and green.", "tags": ["Race issues", "World Cup 2010", "France", "France", "Football", "World news", "Europe", "World Cup"], "title": "Taking sides in France | Nabila Ramdani"},{"date": "2009-12-10T13:42:50Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Times has appointed the Observer's Louise France as editor of its Saturday supplement, the Magazine.France has been working as deputy editor of the Observer Woman and Observer Food Monthly magazines.She will join her former colleague Nicola Jeal, who left her job as the Observer's head of magazines become the Times' weekend editor earlier this year.France's departure follows a decision by the Observer's owner, Guardian News & Media, which also publishes MediaGuardian.co.uk, to close Observer Woman and other monthly magazines on sport and music as part of a review of operations. The company is to keep Observer Food Monthly going.In her time at the GNM title, France also worked as deputy editor of the Observer magazine and then as editor of its Review section.Her earlier career involved spells at the Daily Mail, Independent and Independent on Sunday.\"Louise is a dynamic journalist who brings a wide range of experience to this role, whether from glossy magazines or newspaper supplements,\" said the Times editor, James Harding.\"She is an original thinker with wide cultural references who can build great relationships with top writers. We are delighted she is joining the paper.\"\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["The Times", "The Observer", "Newspapers", "National newspapers", "Media", "Newspapers & magazines"], "title": "Observer's Louise France joins Times"},{"date": "2009-10-03T23:08:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "Suddenly, I know how Posh feels \u2013 what to wear to the airport? Not, in my case, because I need to assemble yet another fabulous couture ensemble for the awaiting paparazzi, but because it's one of those scorching late September days Britain sometimes serves up by way of apology for another underwhelming summer. And I'm going snowboarding.It's a strange feeling to do the Tarentaise rat run \u2013 the road between Geneva and the French Alps soon overfamiliar to frequent visitors \u2013 in full bloom, the monochrome of Lake Annecy and the gradually gathering mountains swapped for turquoise water and lush green forests flecked with gold and red. And the temperate theme extends alarmingly high. By the time I reach Tignes les Boisses' H\u00f4tel Les M\u00e9l\u00e8zes at 1,850m, of the craggy peaks crowding the wraparound views, only the Grande Sassi\u00e8re across the Is\u00e8re valley shows any snow.I'm here for the ski and snowboard test camp jointly run by tour operator MountainSun and ski and board hire company Edge 2 Edge. Part of the vast Espace Killy ski area which is also home to Val d'Is\u00e8re, the Grande Motte glacier above Tignes hosts skiing almost all year round, and, after its three-week autumn closure, the 25 guests gathering on the last weekend of September for a pre-dinner drink in the chalet hotel's snug bar are its first visitors of this winter. Running until 13 December, the camp has an eye-catching price tag \u2013 the standard package of three nights' catered accommodation, three-day lift pass, airport transfers and use of new-season boards, bindings, skis and boots by top brands starts at \u00a399.I'm not first on the slopes, possibly because of chef and hotel manager Roger's generosity with the Talisker single malt after dinner. But my timing is good. At 10.30am I board the funicular railway, which bores 3.5km through the mountain before emerging into swirling grey cloud. Thankfully, it has evaporated by the time the Grande Motte cable car carries me to 3,456m and the glacier's highest skiable point.Tignes' out-of-season skiing can offer up to 20km of piste \u2013 I share five open runs with a couple of kids' teams on race training and around 50 other downhillers. A couple of snowfalls have dusted the glacier, but it still has a grey palour. Still, this is unmistakably an Alp, and a mighty one. Unsweetened by their more familiar winterwear of several million tons of whiteness, the raw, angular ridges and peaks of Grande Casse, Mont Pourri and the Mont Blanc range layer into a stupefying panorama. And, it occurs to me as I make my first carves, I could blow the cost of this whole trip in four hours on Tamworth SnowDome's 170m of indoor, man-made snow.The last time I was at Tamworth, I don't remember having brand-new, high-end kit chucked my way either. The Edge 2 Edge team are pioneers of a new service that lets you order or be fitted in the UK then have your equipment delivered to resorts in the Tarentaise region, bringing to the camp new-season boards, skis and boots by Burton, Head, Salomon, Scott, Atomic and more. Thanks to them, I finally get to ride Lib Tech's Skate Banana snowboard, whose radical \"reverse camber\" construction made such an impact it was near impossible to lay hands on one for its first two seasons. The seven points of contact provided by its subtly bumpy outline give amazing control and make breezy work of Grand Motte's crunchy-then-mushy covering. Before I know it, I'm being chased down the mountain by ski patrol, the last man down. \"I know,\" grins ski tech Matt when I swap my Banana for a Burton at the end of the day. \"It feels like you're cheating, doesn't it?'\" (See the new version in Latest Kit, page 10).Down in the valley too, the camp punches above its weight. A ten-minute shuttle ride from the main base station (and linked during heavier snow by the Les Boisses lift to Espace Killy's 300km of runs), Les M\u00e9l\u00e8zes is a simple, spotlessly clean 20-room chalet hotel with the usual alpine extras like hot tub, sun terrace and sauna plus a Wii, Wi-Fi and Sky TV. Served in a dining room whose large windows reveal spectacular views of the valley, Roger's food is, for the price, frankly astounding. Dinners include whole poussin with orange zest gravy, herb-crusted rack of lamb with dauphinoise gratin and roasted veg, and seared fillet of pork with wholegrain mustard and mushroom sauce. And the throng who fill the bar, many pre-bonded by previous trips with MountainSun (its repeat rate for guests averages about 60%) variously enjoy relaxed and borderline riotous evenings, side by side. The prices help \u2013 here a pint of beer will cost you \u20ac4.50 against the valley average of \u20ac6. This trip's only reminders of in-season fiscal realities are at the Panoramic mountain restaurant, the only one open at this time of year, where coffee costs \u20ac3.60.On this, the inaugural outing of the three-year-old camp's 2009 run, there's even the opportunity to trade in my last afternoon's skiing for Franceraft Savoie's final white water rafting excursion of the season out of Bourg Saint Maurice (for a \u20ac60 supplement). Surrounded by flitting birds, dappled sunshine and the dramatic cliffs of the La Pucelle gorge, the 22km, rapids-studded stretch of the Is\u00e8re river adds another satisfying snowsports holiday first to the tally. And with my bags waiting for me in the MountainSun transfer bus at the end, that run back to the airport is neatly snapped into two palatable halves.\u2022 MountainSun (skiandboardcamp.com; mountainsunltd.com) and Edge 2 Edge's (edge2edge.co.uk) three-day, three-night ski and snowboard test camps start at \u00a399 including catered accommodation, transfers from Geneva, lift passes and equipment. Reflecting the increasing lift prices as new snow opens up more of the ski area, prices rise to \u00a3125 in November and \u00a3149 in December. In full winter season, MountainSun also offers three- and four-day breaks starting all week, as well as week-long packages to various resorts, from \u00a3139 for four nights.", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Flights", "Travel", "Food and drink", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "Early season skiing in France"},{"date": "2009-12-17T09:00:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "Hundreds of Vietnamese followers of a radical Buddhist leader have called on the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, to grant them temporary asylum, a week after they were attacked by vigilantes allegedly hired by the Vietnamese authorities.Representatives of the followers yesterday urged Sarkozy to grant them asylum \"until it is safe for them to return to Vietnam to practise their faith, together\".About 380 young monks and nuns were forced to flee Bat Nha monastery in central Lam Dong province at the end of September after the authorities reacted angrily to a call by their exiled spiritual leader, Thich Nhat Hanh, to end religious intolerance and disband the country's notorious A41 religious police.Supporters say that several monks were beaten and four were sexually assaulted, while two others were held under house arrest without charge.The year long standoff between the Buddhists and the Vietnamese authorities took another violent turn last week when the government sealed off a temple where 200 followers had been taking refuge.A 100-strong armed mob, allegedly directed by undercover police and communist party officials, assaulted the occupants and attempted to clear them from Phuoc Hue pagoda in Lam Dong province.The attack forced an EU delegation to abandon a fact-finding mission to the temple, and the abbot, Thich Thai Thuan, was forced to write a note urging the followers to leave the temple by the end of the year.\"They pressured me to sign the paper to evict the monastic,\" he told Radio France. \"They forced me, so I had to sign.\"Campaigners said the attacks were proof of Vietnam's contempt for human rights and called on the international community to take action.\"Vietnam's international donors should insist that the government halt the attacks on the monks and nuns in Lam Dong, allow them to practise their religion, and prevent any further violent expulsions,\" said Elaine Pearson, deputy Asia director of Human Rights Watch.\"And they should make clear they will keep close tabs on the situation.\"The EU, one of Vietnam's biggest donors, pledged $1bn in aid earlier this month, but pressed the government to lift its restrictions on the media and permit religious freedoms and political dissent.\"The vigilante action to prevent diplomats from meeting with the monks and nuns is a real slap in the face to the EU,\" Pearson said. \"The EU needs to make clear that it has leverage and will use it.\"The EU delegation was sent after the European parliament passed a resolution last month condemning the Buddhists' violent expulsion.Nhat Hanh helped popularise Buddhism in the west and was nominated for the Nobel peace prize by Martin Luther King.His followers, who describe themselves as the \"most radical and fastest growing\" in Vietnam, say the government regards their leader as a threat to its authority.He was forced to leave the former South Vietnam in 1965 because of his opposition to the Vietnam war.During his exile in France he sold millions of books and brought Buddhist thought to a new audience in the west through his Zen teachings and peace activism.His return to Vietnam in 2005 \u2013 with the government's blessing \u2013 after 39 years in exile raised hopes for a new era of religious freedom in the country.All religious activity remains under state control, but the government insists it respects the freedom to worship and described the recent attacks as a dispute between rival Buddhist groups.", "tags": ["Vietnam", "France", "Buddhism", "Religion", "Human rights", "European Union", "World news", "Law", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Vietnamese Buddhists seek asylum in France"},{"date": "2009-12-10T21:02:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "Gordon Brown claimed a victory for the government tonight after securing the support of France and Germany for its supertax on City bonuses amid signs that major Wall Street firms were attempting to prevent a similar clampdown by the Obama administration.Goldman Sachs, the highest profile firm on Wall Street, became the first to blink in the face of the public outcry over its expected handout of \u00a314bn in pay and bonuses this year, by suspending cash bonuses for its top 30 executives.The decision, which will affect six of its executives in London, is expected to set the tone for rivals on Wall Street and could send ripples across the Atlantic. It is believed to be among the options being considered by Barclays as part of a review of remuneration.The warm international reception for Brown's bonus tax held out the prospect that the prime minister could secure a much-needed political boost, as he did when other countries followed his lead on recapitalising the banks last year.The momentum building up in Europe behind the clampdown on bonuses followed conversations between Treasury officials and those in G7 countries on Wednesday after the pre-budget report outlined the 50% tax on bankers' bonuses of more than \u00a325,000.President Nicolas Sarkozy of France decided to follow the UK in imposing the one-off penalties on bonuses over \u20ac27,000 after weeks of feuding between London and Paris over the regulation of European markets.He had met Brown in Brussels today on the fringes of an EU summit to bury the hatchet after co-authoring an article calling for a global deal on the way banks behave.Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany also sounded sympathetic to the British initiative. She said it was a \"charming idea\" and showed how others could \"learn from the City of London\".While a Downing Street spokesman appeared optimistic that Germany would also follow suit, senior German sources cautioned that despite the sympathetic noises from Berlin, Merkel would not, for legal reasons, be able to replicate the banker-bashing.Brown said: \"I think the French agreement to support what we are doing on one-off bonuses is very important. There is a one-off national insurance premium to be paid by the City, and that will happen in France as well.\"I believe other countries will now want to look at it and we have also an agreement in the international community to look at the relationship between banks and the service they owe to society. France is very supportive on that. The debate in the international community will move forward.\"Merkel prefers a Tobin-style tax on financial transactions, which Brown is attempting to persuade major leaders to endorse.In a letter to the other 26 EU heads of government, Brown said: \"The EU should work actively with our international partners to develop proposals to ensure a better balance of risks, rewards and responsibility between society and the financial sector.\"The US administration is opposed to a Tobin tax but is facing calls to copy the UK's payroll tax on bonuses \u2013 a move that has been greeted with concern in US banking circles.\"Goldman Sachs is worried. They're worried about the public reaction to bonuses they're paying in the worst recession since the war,\" said Alan Charney, programme director for US Action, a union-backed campaign group.The US treasury declined to comment today on its view of Britain's tax on bonuses, although a handful of left-leaning members of Congress have called for a similar levy in the US.Total bonus payouts on Wall Street are due to rise by 40% to $26bn this year. The Obama administration has appointed a so-called \"compensation tsar\", Kenneth Feinberg, to examine pay policies, although his remit extends only to banks being propped up by bailout funds.Steve Hall, a New York-based pay consultant who advises American companies on devising remuneration, said there was concern at the prospect of Brown's tax gaining international impetus after France's decision to follow Britain's lead: \"This is spreading \u2013 this is worse than swine flu.\"In lieu of cash payments, the Goldman executives will receive shares. Under enhanced \"clawback\" powers, the bank will be able to reclaim shares from any employees found to have inflicted \"material financial harm\" on its businesses. And in an unprecedented move for a major US bank, Goldman will put its remuneration policies before a yearly \"say on pay\" vote by shareholders at its annual meetings.A Goldman spokesman said the bank had taken public opinion into consideration: \"The motivation was that these are extraordinary times, that the firm has done well and that that has excited a great deal of comment and not a little criticism.\"Before the financial crisis hit, Goldman's chief executive, Lloyd Blankfein, was the best-paid bank boss on Wall Street, taking home $68.5m in 2007, while two of his top lieutenants earned $67.5m each. The US treasury secretary, Timothy Geithner, recently pointed out that Goldman would have collapsed had it not been for the US government's support of the industry.President Obama will host a meeting at the White House on Monday with banking chiefs including the heads of Goldman, Citigroup and Bank of America, where pay policies are sure to be on the agenda.In the City, warnings that the tax would result in an exodus of star players were matched by those insisting that the supertax would be easy to dodge.", "tags": ["Executive pay and bonuses", "Banking", "Economic policy", "Pre-budget report", "Economics", "Goldman Sachs", "UK news", "France", "Germany", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Politics", "Tax", "Gordon Brown", "Pre-budget report 2009", "Europe"], "title": "France and Germany back UK bonus tax"},{"date": "2009-11-01T11:00:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "The convictions of Pierre Falcone, Arcadi Gaydamak, ex-president's son Jean-Christophe Mitterrand and Charles Pasqua in a French court for arms trafficking to Angola have exposed the impunity with which arms traffickers supplied weapons to Angola during its 27-year civil war.In an effort to stem the conflict, the United Nations imposed an arms embargo on both the government and the rebels. Both parties contravened the international decision during the second (1992-94) and third (1998-2002) periods of the civil war. The Angolan government employed primarily the services of Pierre Falcone and Gaydamak to procure the arms, while the main arms dealer supplying Unita rebels was the infamous Ukrainian Victor Bout, who is currently sitting in jail in Thailand.In order to understand the significance of these convictions it is important to focus on one key player, Pierre Falcone, and his relationship with the Angolan leadership.The Angolan president, Jos\u00e9 Eduardo dos Santos, publicly hailed him as a national hero. Critical newspapers dubbed him as the \"vice-president of Angola\" for his privileged access to the president, and for his handling of sovereign state affairs. His influence made a laughing-stock of the former Angolan prime minister Marcolino Moco, who had only two private audiences with Dos Santos during his four years in the job. It coincided with the period of arms trafficking for which Falcone has just been convicted.In 2004, for instance, Dos Santos' office called for the prosecution of Falcone to be abandoned:During a difficult moment of the recent Angolan history, Mr Pierre Falcone, by his volition and at his own risk, made funds available to the Angolan government for it to exercise its right of sovereignty, a right that was almost denied by the international community. It was, thus, decisive, at that time, the financial support from some private entities.The ideological divide of the cold war had enabled the MPLA regime to seek international military protection from Cuba and the former Soviet Union between 1975, the year of Angola's independence, and 1989. Economic liberalisation and the new world order led Dos Santos to shift, during the 1992 post-electoral civil war, to the use of private foreign intermediaries to perform sovereign responsibilities and to enable the ruling elite to enrich themselves illicitly, including the presidential family.Angola's riches sustained and prolonged the civil war. The government traded oil for weapons, while Unita paid for arms with diamonds. These deals fuelled the conflict and contributed to the killings of tens of thousands of Angolans, the devastation of the country's infrastructure, and helped to institutionalise corruption. Furthermore, the corrupt channels established by arms trade, oil and diamonds set the stage for a culture of impunity, plunder of the state assets by the ruling elite, and the \"legalisation\" of such criminal acts in peace time.It is in this context that Falcone has also become a key player in Angola's state contracts with China, which are worth billions of dollars. His conviction is a serious blow to Dos Santos' arrogance as an untouchable political figure. It imperils the president's form of private indirect government \u2013 a term used by the academic Achille Mbembe to describe the privatisation of sovereignty as its various functions and obligations are transferred to private operators and for private ends.* This article was amended shortly after publication. Viktor Bout is imprisoned in Thailand, not Singapore, as originally stated.", "tags": ["France", "Angola", "Arms trade", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "How France fuelled Angola's civil war | Rafael Marques de Morais"},{"date": "2010-03-09T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Roman Catholic church does not approve of untramelled globalisation so an international trade in communion wafers should not be threatening the livelihood of French convents. Yet it is. Nearly sixty contemplative houses in France are feeling their livelihoods threatened by falling demand for the wafers that the make. Not only is the number of Catholics in France falling, but their product is undercut by cheap imports from Poland, which come from a secular factory. Bad enough that the French were threatened by \"The Polish plumber\"; the Polish wafer is an even more serious attack on the tranquil heart of France.For the moment the danger has been averted after the nuns publicised a threat by the shrine at Lourdes to switch to the Polish wafer. But in the long run, this little industry may be threatened like every other part of traditional French agriculture. In vain the charming little websites showing in detail how the wafers are made. One convent explains themselves: \"We know we are useless in the eyes of many in a world shaped by the pursuit of profit and of efficiency, but our happiness is rooted in a love freely given\" and it's a shame to think of these 18 sisters outside Avignon forced to find some other way to earn a living. But in the wider world, the change has already happened.At Christmas, the New York Times ran a remarkable story about a Rhode Island bakery which has captured 80% of the market for communion wafers in the US, Canada, and even here and Australia. The Cavanagh company's wafers are truly ecumenical. They are praised by Anglicans, Lutherans and Methodists as well as Roman Catholics. They can be snapped theatrically without crumbs. And 850m of them were sold last year. The cunning thing, though, is their marketing strategy: in Catholic dioceses, they sell to monasteries and convents, which then sell them on to the churches, keeping an income without the industry. I do not think St Benedict would have approved. His rule established that monks should spend a third of their waking hours in prayer, a third in study, and a third in manual labour. The hard work of baking was part of its attraction. In this country, the manufacture of Catholic communion hosts is largely the responsibility of the contemplative orders. Some of the convents here are already selling on the Polish wafers, according to Sister Mary Bernadette, who has the improbable job of press officer for the Association of British Contemplatives. And this is probably the least inflammatory solution to the French crisis. If it were discovered that an American firm were muscling into the supply of French communion wafers, the riots against McDonalds would look like a tea party in a convent of contemplatives.", "tags": ["Religion", "Catholicism", "France", "World news", "Poland", "Europe"], "title": "The Polish wafer threatens France | Andrew Brown"},{"date": "2010-03-09T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Roman Catholic church does not approve of untramelled globalisation so an international trade in communion wafers should not be threatening the livelihood of French convents. Yet it is. Nearly sixty contemplative houses in France are feeling their livelihoods threatened by falling demand for the wafers that the make. Not only is the number of Catholics in France falling, but their product is undercut by cheap imports from Poland, which come from a secular factory. Bad enough that the French were threatened by \"The Polish plumber\"; the Polish wafer is an even more serious attack on the tranquil heart of France.For the moment the danger has been averted after the nuns publicised a threat by the shrine at Lourdes to switch to the Polish wafer. But in the long run, this little industry may be threatened like every other part of traditional French agriculture. In vain the charming little websites showing in detail how the wafers are made. One convent explains themselves: \"We know we are useless in the eyes of many in a world shaped by the pursuit of profit and of efficiency, but our happiness is rooted in a love freely given\" and it's a shame to think of these 18 sisters outside Avignon forced to find some other way to earn a living. But in the wider world, the change has already happened.At Christmas, the New York Times ran a remarkable story about a Rhode Island bakery which has captured 80% of the market for communion wafers in the US, Canada, and even here and Australia. The Cavanagh company's wafers are truly ecumenical. They are praised by Anglicans, Lutherans and Methodists as well as Roman Catholics. They can be snapped theatrically without crumbs. And 850m of them were sold last year. The cunning thing, though, is their marketing strategy: in Catholic dioceses, they sell to monasteries and convents, which then sell them on to the churches, keeping an income without the industry. I do not think St Benedict would have approved. His rule established that monks should spend a third of their waking hours in prayer, a third in study, and a third in manual labour. The hard work of baking was part of its attraction. In this country, the manufacture of Catholic communion hosts is largely the responsibility of the contemplative orders. Some of the convents here are already selling on the Polish wafers, according to Sister Mary Bernadette, who has the improbable job of press officer for the Association of British Contemplatives. And this is probably the least inflammatory solution to the French crisis. If it were discovered that an American firm were muscling into the supply of French communion wafers, the riots against McDonalds would look like a tea party in a convent of contemplatives.", "tags": ["Religion", "Catholicism", "France", "World news", "Poland", "Europe"], "title": "The Polish wafer threatens France | Andrew Brown"},{"date": "2010-03-01T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "On the Atlantic coast, we've seen all this weather before. Just over ten years ago, the coast of Charente-Maritime was struck by a hurricane and floods, and the mouth of the Gironde estuary burst its banks and filled every little fishing port and the valleys of the hinterland with salt water.This weekend the French weather services gave us plenty of warning. We shut all the shutters, moved the cars out of the way of the Scots pine that we used to love but now mistrust each time the wind soughs in its branches. For the events of December 1999 have left everyone in the area with a fear of the sound of wind.By three in the morning, the buffeting wind and rain had us fully awake, and after an enormous flash in the sky, power was cut and we were groping for torches. At dawn, we ventured out to see the damage. We were lucky, only a few branches down. We dug out the camping gas to make tea and a battery-run radio, to hear Maxime Bono, mayor of La Rochelle, saying that this was even worse than 1999.We live an hour south of La Rochelle, on the Gironde Estuary. The worst hit areas are to the north of us, seaside towns like Aytr\u00e9, Chatelaillon, the Ile de R\u00e9, and north into the Vend\u00e9e, but the Gironde estuary is tidal, and reserves special treatment for those who live on its banks. Leaving our cold house behind, we drove south to check out the house of friends who live most of the year in Berlin. The coastal road was dotted with \"route barr\u00e9e, and route inond\u00e9e\" notices, and barriers had been set up to keep traffic away, but I have a French husband, so we went straight through regardless.High tide had been at 4am, and it was 104 on the French coefficient scale, which means a high spring tide. Coupled with 159kph winds, the villages didn't stand a chance. South from Royan, hugging the coast past Meschers and Talmont, flooded fields and pasture land shone blue in the bright sunlight. The road was littered with debris, tree trunks, planks, plastic bottles, mounds of rushes and old tyres. And while farmers stood and looked dejectedly at their sprouting wheat covered with swathes of jetsam, others were making the most of it, hurriedly loading their cars with free firewood. We kept the car radio tuned to France Bleu La Rochelle, which is the only means of communication for many. One woman was calling in for help from an isolated house in Les Boucholeurs, an isolated fishing village south of La Rochelle. Her daughter was stuck in a flooded house surrounded by water, with a two-month-old baby and no electricity to heat up milk. An appeal also came over for shoes and socks and warm jumpers, for those who had swum out of their homes in the middle of the night.In St Seurin d'Uze, the worst hit on the Gironde coast, no-one has forgotten the 1999 floods, in which a young woman and her child drowned. This time, the church had been flooded but already by 11am the pews stood piled high, and local women leaned on their brooms and looked proudly at the glistening floor tiles.Our friends' house in Barzan stands only a few meters from the harbour side. At the Auberge des Monards, the restaurant owners were hosing down their mud-coated dining-room, all the tables and chairs were out drying in the sun. And we spent the afternoon doing exactly the same: washing, hosing, moving furniture, wringing out bedding and clothes, and hosing all over again. Outside, it was high tide again and the water we kept pushing out of the front door had nowhere to go.Of course, the mockingly sunny Sunday brought onlookers, wanting to find a space to park among the drying chairs and the buckets and the sodden doormats \u2013 causing a minor traffic jam that prevented the fire brigade from doing its urgent job of pumping out water. Irritated, the mayor, Robert Maigre, who had been up since three in the morning doing the rounds of his commune, dragged out barriers to block access to the harbour.\"It's not for lack of asking,\" he said, \"as he pointed to the harbour banks. We've tried at local level, we've tried the departemental conseil g\u00e9neral but no-one's listening. It wouldn't take much, we just need the bank raised by a few centimetres, to keep us out of danger, but with only 250 inhabitants, we're too small. So here we are, ten years on, same thing all over again!\"", "tags": ["France", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Flooding", "Europe"], "title": "Violent storms devastate western France"},{"date": "2010-03-09T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Roman Catholic church does not approve of untramelled globalisation so an international trade in communion wafers should not be threatening the livelihood of French convents. Yet it is. Nearly sixty contemplative houses in France are feeling their livelihoods threatened by falling demand for the wafers that the make. Not only is the number of Catholics in France falling, but their product is undercut by cheap imports from Poland, which come from a secular factory. Bad enough that the French were threatened by \"The Polish plumber\"; the Polish wafer is an even more serious attack on the tranquil heart of France.For the moment the danger has been averted after the nuns publicised a threat by the shrine at Lourdes to switch to the Polish wafer. But in the long run, this little industry may be threatened like every other part of traditional French agriculture. In vain the charming little websites showing in detail how the wafers are made. One convent explains themselves: \"We know we are useless in the eyes of many in a world shaped by the pursuit of profit and of efficiency, but our happiness is rooted in a love freely given\" and it's a shame to think of these 18 sisters outside Avignon forced to find some other way to earn a living. But in the wider world, the change has already happened.At Christmas, the New York Times ran a remarkable story about a Rhode Island bakery which has captured 80% of the market for communion wafers in the US, Canada, and even here and Australia. The Cavanagh company's wafers are truly ecumenical. They are praised by Anglicans, Lutherans and Methodists as well as Roman Catholics. They can be snapped theatrically without crumbs. And 850m of them were sold last year. The cunning thing, though, is their marketing strategy: in Catholic dioceses, they sell to monasteries and convents, which then sell them on to the churches, keeping an income without the industry. I do not think St Benedict would have approved. His rule established that monks should spend a third of their waking hours in prayer, a third in study, and a third in manual labour. The hard work of baking was part of its attraction. In this country, the manufacture of Catholic communion hosts is largely the responsibility of the contemplative orders. Some of the convents here are already selling on the Polish wafers, according to Sister Mary Bernadette, who has the improbable job of press officer for the Association of British Contemplatives. And this is probably the least inflammatory solution to the French crisis. If it were discovered that an American firm were muscling into the supply of French communion wafers, the riots against McDonalds would look like a tea party in a convent of contemplatives.", "tags": ["Religion", "Catholicism", "France", "World news", "Poland", "Europe"], "title": "The Polish wafer threatens France | Andrew Brown"},{"date": "2010-03-01T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "On the Atlantic coast, we've seen all this weather before. Just over ten years ago, the coast of Charente-Maritime was struck by a hurricane and floods, and the mouth of the Gironde estuary burst its banks and filled every little fishing port and the valleys of the hinterland with salt water.This weekend the French weather services gave us plenty of warning. We shut all the shutters, moved the cars out of the way of the Scots pine that we used to love but now mistrust each time the wind soughs in its branches. For the events of December 1999 have left everyone in the area with a fear of the sound of wind.By three in the morning, the buffeting wind and rain had us fully awake, and after an enormous flash in the sky, power was cut and we were groping for torches. At dawn, we ventured out to see the damage. We were lucky, only a few branches down. We dug out the camping gas to make tea and a battery-run radio, to hear Maxime Bono, mayor of La Rochelle, saying that this was even worse than 1999.We live an hour south of La Rochelle, on the Gironde Estuary. The worst hit areas are to the north of us, seaside towns like Aytr\u00e9, Chatelaillon, the Ile de R\u00e9, and north into the Vend\u00e9e, but the Gironde estuary is tidal, and reserves special treatment for those who live on its banks. Leaving our cold house behind, we drove south to check out the house of friends who live most of the year in Berlin. The coastal road was dotted with \"route barr\u00e9e, and route inond\u00e9e\" notices, and barriers had been set up to keep traffic away, but I have a French husband, so we went straight through regardless.High tide had been at 4am, and it was 104 on the French coefficient scale, which means a high spring tide. Coupled with 159kph winds, the villages didn't stand a chance. South from Royan, hugging the coast past Meschers and Talmont, flooded fields and pasture land shone blue in the bright sunlight. The road was littered with debris, tree trunks, planks, plastic bottles, mounds of rushes and old tyres. And while farmers stood and looked dejectedly at their sprouting wheat covered with swathes of jetsam, others were making the most of it, hurriedly loading their cars with free firewood. We kept the car radio tuned to France Bleu La Rochelle, which is the only means of communication for many. One woman was calling in for help from an isolated house in Les Boucholeurs, an isolated fishing village south of La Rochelle. Her daughter was stuck in a flooded house surrounded by water, with a two-month-old baby and no electricity to heat up milk. An appeal also came over for shoes and socks and warm jumpers, for those who had swum out of their homes in the middle of the night.In St Seurin d'Uze, the worst hit on the Gironde coast, no-one has forgotten the 1999 floods, in which a young woman and her child drowned. This time, the church had been flooded but already by 11am the pews stood piled high, and local women leaned on their brooms and looked proudly at the glistening floor tiles.Our friends' house in Barzan stands only a few meters from the harbour side. At the Auberge des Monards, the restaurant owners were hosing down their mud-coated dining-room, all the tables and chairs were out drying in the sun. And we spent the afternoon doing exactly the same: washing, hosing, moving furniture, wringing out bedding and clothes, and hosing all over again. Outside, it was high tide again and the water we kept pushing out of the front door had nowhere to go.Of course, the mockingly sunny Sunday brought onlookers, wanting to find a space to park among the drying chairs and the buckets and the sodden doormats \u2013 causing a minor traffic jam that prevented the fire brigade from doing its urgent job of pumping out water. Irritated, the mayor, Robert Maigre, who had been up since three in the morning doing the rounds of his commune, dragged out barriers to block access to the harbour.\"It's not for lack of asking,\" he said, \"as he pointed to the harbour banks. We've tried at local level, we've tried the departemental conseil g\u00e9neral but no-one's listening. It wouldn't take much, we just need the bank raised by a few centimetres, to keep us out of danger, but with only 250 inhabitants, we're too small. So here we are, ten years on, same thing all over again!\"", "tags": ["France", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Flooding", "Europe"], "title": "Violent storms devastate western France"},{"date": "2010-02-28T13:19:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "France was today struggling to cope with its most violent storm for 10 years, as winds of more than 100mph swept through the country, killing at least 40 people and leaving 1m homes without power. Central and western France were worst hit with gales and torrential rain felling trees and causing flooding. At least seven people drowned in villages in the Vend\u00e9e, while three elderly people and a child were found dead in Charente Maritime around La Rochelle. A man was killed by a falling tree branch in the south-western town of Luchon, where winds reached 90mph. As well as the known casualties, at least five other people were reported missing and dozens others injured. As the storm, known as Xynthia, progressed northwards through France over the weekend, five of the country's 95 departments were placed on red alert for only the second time in the emergency system's history. By this afternoon the alert had been downgraded.The M\u00e9t\u00e9o France weather agency predicted the worst would be over by this afternoon as the storm headed towards Denmark. Xynthia reached France yesterday after lashing parts of southern Europe with heavy winds and rain. In northern Portugal, a 10-year-old boy was killed by a falling tree branch while playing football, and authorities in Spain said two men died when their car was crushed by a falling tree. Tens of thousands of homes were left without electricity. The bad weather conditions caused transport chaos across France. Fallen trees and flooding caused roads and railway lines to be cut off, while some flights in and out of Charles de Gaulle (Roissy) airport, in northern Paris, were cancelled. Authorities at the garden of Versailles reported that 30 trees had fallen overnight. In the worst-hit areas on the western Atlantic coast, helicopters were deployed to rescue residents who had been forced to climb on to their roofs by floods. According to M\u00e9t\u00e9o France, Xynthia is the most violent storm France has seen since December 1999, when high winds caused widespread damage across the country.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Fatal storm sweeps through France"},{"date": "2010-03-09T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Roman Catholic church does not approve of untramelled globalisation so an international trade in communion wafers should not be threatening the livelihood of French convents. Yet it is. Nearly sixty contemplative houses in France are feeling their livelihoods threatened by falling demand for the wafers that the make. Not only is the number of Catholics in France falling, but their product is undercut by cheap imports from Poland, which come from a secular factory. Bad enough that the French were threatened by \"The Polish plumber\"; the Polish wafer is an even more serious attack on the tranquil heart of France.For the moment the danger has been averted after the nuns publicised a threat by the shrine at Lourdes to switch to the Polish wafer. But in the long run, this little industry may be threatened like every other part of traditional French agriculture. In vain the charming little websites showing in detail how the wafers are made. One convent explains themselves: \"We know we are useless in the eyes of many in a world shaped by the pursuit of profit and of efficiency, but our happiness is rooted in a love freely given\" and it's a shame to think of these 18 sisters outside Avignon forced to find some other way to earn a living. But in the wider world, the change has already happened.At Christmas, the New York Times ran a remarkable story about a Rhode Island bakery which has captured 80% of the market for communion wafers in the US, Canada, and even here and Australia. The Cavanagh company's wafers are truly ecumenical. They are praised by Anglicans, Lutherans and Methodists as well as Roman Catholics. They can be snapped theatrically without crumbs. And 850m of them were sold last year. The cunning thing, though, is their marketing strategy: in Catholic dioceses, they sell to monasteries and convents, which then sell them on to the churches, keeping an income without the industry. I do not think St Benedict would have approved. His rule established that monks should spend a third of their waking hours in prayer, a third in study, and a third in manual labour. The hard work of baking was part of its attraction. In this country, the manufacture of Catholic communion hosts is largely the responsibility of the contemplative orders. Some of the convents here are already selling on the Polish wafers, according to Sister Mary Bernadette, who has the improbable job of press officer for the Association of British Contemplatives. And this is probably the least inflammatory solution to the French crisis. If it were discovered that an American firm were muscling into the supply of French communion wafers, the riots against McDonalds would look like a tea party in a convent of contemplatives.", "tags": ["Religion", "Catholicism", "France", "World news", "Poland", "Europe"], "title": "The Polish wafer threatens France | Andrew Brown"},{"date": "2010-03-01T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "On the Atlantic coast, we've seen all this weather before. Just over ten years ago, the coast of Charente-Maritime was struck by a hurricane and floods, and the mouth of the Gironde estuary burst its banks and filled every little fishing port and the valleys of the hinterland with salt water.This weekend the French weather services gave us plenty of warning. We shut all the shutters, moved the cars out of the way of the Scots pine that we used to love but now mistrust each time the wind soughs in its branches. For the events of December 1999 have left everyone in the area with a fear of the sound of wind.By three in the morning, the buffeting wind and rain had us fully awake, and after an enormous flash in the sky, power was cut and we were groping for torches. At dawn, we ventured out to see the damage. We were lucky, only a few branches down. We dug out the camping gas to make tea and a battery-run radio, to hear Maxime Bono, mayor of La Rochelle, saying that this was even worse than 1999.We live an hour south of La Rochelle, on the Gironde Estuary. The worst hit areas are to the north of us, seaside towns like Aytr\u00e9, Chatelaillon, the Ile de R\u00e9, and north into the Vend\u00e9e, but the Gironde estuary is tidal, and reserves special treatment for those who live on its banks. Leaving our cold house behind, we drove south to check out the house of friends who live most of the year in Berlin. The coastal road was dotted with \"route barr\u00e9e, and route inond\u00e9e\" notices, and barriers had been set up to keep traffic away, but I have a French husband, so we went straight through regardless.High tide had been at 4am, and it was 104 on the French coefficient scale, which means a high spring tide. Coupled with 159kph winds, the villages didn't stand a chance. South from Royan, hugging the coast past Meschers and Talmont, flooded fields and pasture land shone blue in the bright sunlight. The road was littered with debris, tree trunks, planks, plastic bottles, mounds of rushes and old tyres. And while farmers stood and looked dejectedly at their sprouting wheat covered with swathes of jetsam, others were making the most of it, hurriedly loading their cars with free firewood. We kept the car radio tuned to France Bleu La Rochelle, which is the only means of communication for many. One woman was calling in for help from an isolated house in Les Boucholeurs, an isolated fishing village south of La Rochelle. Her daughter was stuck in a flooded house surrounded by water, with a two-month-old baby and no electricity to heat up milk. An appeal also came over for shoes and socks and warm jumpers, for those who had swum out of their homes in the middle of the night.In St Seurin d'Uze, the worst hit on the Gironde coast, no-one has forgotten the 1999 floods, in which a young woman and her child drowned. This time, the church had been flooded but already by 11am the pews stood piled high, and local women leaned on their brooms and looked proudly at the glistening floor tiles.Our friends' house in Barzan stands only a few meters from the harbour side. At the Auberge des Monards, the restaurant owners were hosing down their mud-coated dining-room, all the tables and chairs were out drying in the sun. And we spent the afternoon doing exactly the same: washing, hosing, moving furniture, wringing out bedding and clothes, and hosing all over again. Outside, it was high tide again and the water we kept pushing out of the front door had nowhere to go.Of course, the mockingly sunny Sunday brought onlookers, wanting to find a space to park among the drying chairs and the buckets and the sodden doormats \u2013 causing a minor traffic jam that prevented the fire brigade from doing its urgent job of pumping out water. Irritated, the mayor, Robert Maigre, who had been up since three in the morning doing the rounds of his commune, dragged out barriers to block access to the harbour.\"It's not for lack of asking,\" he said, \"as he pointed to the harbour banks. We've tried at local level, we've tried the departemental conseil g\u00e9neral but no-one's listening. It wouldn't take much, we just need the bank raised by a few centimetres, to keep us out of danger, but with only 250 inhabitants, we're too small. So here we are, ten years on, same thing all over again!\"", "tags": ["France", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Flooding", "Europe"], "title": "Violent storms devastate western France"},{"date": "2010-02-28T13:19:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "France was today struggling to cope with its most violent storm for 10 years, as winds of more than 100mph swept through the country, killing at least 40 people and leaving 1m homes without power. Central and western France were worst hit with gales and torrential rain felling trees and causing flooding. At least seven people drowned in villages in the Vend\u00e9e, while three elderly people and a child were found dead in Charente Maritime around La Rochelle. A man was killed by a falling tree branch in the south-western town of Luchon, where winds reached 90mph. As well as the known casualties, at least five other people were reported missing and dozens others injured. As the storm, known as Xynthia, progressed northwards through France over the weekend, five of the country's 95 departments were placed on red alert for only the second time in the emergency system's history. By this afternoon the alert had been downgraded.The M\u00e9t\u00e9o France weather agency predicted the worst would be over by this afternoon as the storm headed towards Denmark. Xynthia reached France yesterday after lashing parts of southern Europe with heavy winds and rain. In northern Portugal, a 10-year-old boy was killed by a falling tree branch while playing football, and authorities in Spain said two men died when their car was crushed by a falling tree. Tens of thousands of homes were left without electricity. The bad weather conditions caused transport chaos across France. Fallen trees and flooding caused roads and railway lines to be cut off, while some flights in and out of Charles de Gaulle (Roissy) airport, in northern Paris, were cancelled. Authorities at the garden of Versailles reported that 30 trees had fallen overnight. In the worst-hit areas on the western Atlantic coast, helicopters were deployed to rescue residents who had been forced to climb on to their roofs by floods. According to M\u00e9t\u00e9o France, Xynthia is the most violent storm France has seen since December 1999, when high winds caused widespread damage across the country.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Fatal storm sweeps through France"},{"date": "2010-02-01T12:09:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Have you been following that favourite British pastime, enthusiastically reciprocated beyond Calais, of watching the French making idiots of themselves again? It would be fun if it wasn't serious and didn't affect us too.I do not refer to the controversy over a bit of British academic research which suggested the G-spot may be a myth, the condescending French repudiation of which Lizzy Davies wittily reported in last week's Guardian. Crowdsourcing research continues.Nor even the acquittal of Dominque de Villepin in the conspiracy to stitch up Nicolas Sarkozy, his rival (past, present and future) for the French presidency by way of a very French funny-money smear campaign. (Busy Lizzy wrote up that Inspector Clouseau tale too.)No, the serious one is that vote by French MPs last week which would lead to a ban on the wearing of full Islamic covering \u2013 the niqab (face veil) as well as the burka (full body) \u2013 in official public spaces such as hospitals, post offices and buses.It's one of those compromises people think they're being smart to dream up; not a full ban, you understand, but a partial ban.As the Observer reported yesterday (that Lizzy Davies again) it must be seen in the context of France's commitment to secularism (la\u00efcit\u00e9), equality and other abstract concepts for which they are rightly famous.It underpins the notion that the French are all equal, but that people who want to be French must embrace what being French means. A Moroccan who became more devout after moving to France \u2013 surely an understandable response? \u2013 lost her bid for citizenship because she would not discard the niqab.I don't like any form of clothing or kit where one cannot see a person's mouth or eyes, both vital to reading what someone is saying, meaning or feeling at any given moment when you are trying to communicate. You have the voice to go by (as you do on the phone), but it's not always enough.So when Jack Straw expressed Jack-ish doubts about the suitability of the niqab (he asks visitors to his MP's surgery to uncover), I was on his side and added my strong dislike of sunglasses indoors (outdoor too, actually, but at least there they serve a function) to promote the view that this is not about being horrid to Muslims.That's a world away from banning people. You need a much better reason than personal discomfort to do that in a free society. I don't much care for facial piercings or tattoos either. \"So you want to make yourself ugly and unemployable, do you?\" I mutter to myself as I pass those who have them in the street. But we shouldn't ban them either.Yet British public opinion is almost as iffy as the French who have been suffering one of Sarko's public debates on national identity for six months or so. A ComRes poll for the Independent this morning shows that 59% support a ban on the burka in public places such as airports and banks \u2013 with 36% against.The young are more tolerant than the old, the cosmopolitan city-state of London more tolerant than the rest of Britain. No surprise there.Most people oppose a total ban, the sort of thing the BNP advocates, but think that schools should have the right to ban teachers in burkas if so minded \u2013 as the French have banned the wearing of headscarves and a daft court in Italy recently banned religious symbols such as crosses in school.One way or another we've all made mistakes. The Swiss voted the other week to ban minaret-building, not a major problem in Switzerland. Not many women wear the niqab in France \u2013 2,000 on some estimates \u2013 and even fewer the wretched burka.In London you rarely see either outside certain neighbourhoods, rich and poor, where Muslims live in large numbers. When I'm in need of directions in such areas I make it policy always to ask the woman in the burka, a form of affirmative action. Are they pleased? I've no idea, but they sometimes know the way.But we have got muddled over religious symbolism in schools and hospitals. The Christian Legal Centre has issued a statement only this morning confirming that Olive Jones, a teacher in Weston-super-Mare, has been offered her job back.Mrs Jones (54) was sacked by North Somerset council after offering to share her faith with a sick pupil and asking other children in the class to pray for her. The parents objected, but it turned out that no one had told teachers they were sensitive about faith matters.So a mistake was made. But no one investigated the case properly before the sacking either, according to the legal centre. But the good news is surely that a respected teacher got her job back.Live and let live should be the watchword, shouldn't it? And fairness of treatment too. If we want to ban funny kit in banks or at airports on security grounds the ban might be sensibly extended to all funny kit, including sunglasses and exploding underpants.The point is the France is a great brand. It is supposed to stand for something important in human affairs: liberty, equality and fraternity. It does, even though we have just been reminded that the offspring of the French Revolution brutally squeezed savage compensation out of republican Haiti for decades after its black slaves decided to follow Paris's intellectual lead and throw off oppression.Ditto Britain. Secular democracy's enemies, who use our liberal institutions \u2013 courts and benefit systems \u2013 while busily despising us, only thrive when we let ourselves down. We are stronger for being who we say we are, not what they say we are.Tucked away in yesterday's Observer article was a remark by Kheira (her niqab is in her handbag, she explains) who said: \"France is supposed to be a free country. Nowadays women have the right to take their clothes off, but not to put them on.\"Well said, Kheira. I'd like to think Simone de Beauvoir would applaud you, though I'm not confident. What's more you sound quite French and modern too me. Good.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "France", "Islam", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "French burqa and niqab ban", "Islamic veil"], "title": "France, don't ban the niqab | Michael White"},{"date": "2010-03-09T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Roman Catholic church does not approve of untramelled globalisation so an international trade in communion wafers should not be threatening the livelihood of French convents. Yet it is. Nearly sixty contemplative houses in France are feeling their livelihoods threatened by falling demand for the wafers that the make. Not only is the number of Catholics in France falling, but their product is undercut by cheap imports from Poland, which come from a secular factory. Bad enough that the French were threatened by \"The Polish plumber\"; the Polish wafer is an even more serious attack on the tranquil heart of France.For the moment the danger has been averted after the nuns publicised a threat by the shrine at Lourdes to switch to the Polish wafer. But in the long run, this little industry may be threatened like every other part of traditional French agriculture. In vain the charming little websites showing in detail how the wafers are made. One convent explains themselves: \"We know we are useless in the eyes of many in a world shaped by the pursuit of profit and of efficiency, but our happiness is rooted in a love freely given\" and it's a shame to think of these 18 sisters outside Avignon forced to find some other way to earn a living. But in the wider world, the change has already happened.At Christmas, the New York Times ran a remarkable story about a Rhode Island bakery which has captured 80% of the market for communion wafers in the US, Canada, and even here and Australia. The Cavanagh company's wafers are truly ecumenical. They are praised by Anglicans, Lutherans and Methodists as well as Roman Catholics. They can be snapped theatrically without crumbs. And 850m of them were sold last year. The cunning thing, though, is their marketing strategy: in Catholic dioceses, they sell to monasteries and convents, which then sell them on to the churches, keeping an income without the industry. I do not think St Benedict would have approved. His rule established that monks should spend a third of their waking hours in prayer, a third in study, and a third in manual labour. The hard work of baking was part of its attraction. In this country, the manufacture of Catholic communion hosts is largely the responsibility of the contemplative orders. Some of the convents here are already selling on the Polish wafers, according to Sister Mary Bernadette, who has the improbable job of press officer for the Association of British Contemplatives. And this is probably the least inflammatory solution to the French crisis. If it were discovered that an American firm were muscling into the supply of French communion wafers, the riots against McDonalds would look like a tea party in a convent of contemplatives.", "tags": ["Religion", "Catholicism", "France", "World news", "Poland", "Europe"], "title": "The Polish wafer threatens France | Andrew Brown"},{"date": "2010-03-01T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "On the Atlantic coast, we've seen all this weather before. Just over ten years ago, the coast of Charente-Maritime was struck by a hurricane and floods, and the mouth of the Gironde estuary burst its banks and filled every little fishing port and the valleys of the hinterland with salt water.This weekend the French weather services gave us plenty of warning. We shut all the shutters, moved the cars out of the way of the Scots pine that we used to love but now mistrust each time the wind soughs in its branches. For the events of December 1999 have left everyone in the area with a fear of the sound of wind.By three in the morning, the buffeting wind and rain had us fully awake, and after an enormous flash in the sky, power was cut and we were groping for torches. At dawn, we ventured out to see the damage. We were lucky, only a few branches down. We dug out the camping gas to make tea and a battery-run radio, to hear Maxime Bono, mayor of La Rochelle, saying that this was even worse than 1999.We live an hour south of La Rochelle, on the Gironde Estuary. The worst hit areas are to the north of us, seaside towns like Aytr\u00e9, Chatelaillon, the Ile de R\u00e9, and north into the Vend\u00e9e, but the Gironde estuary is tidal, and reserves special treatment for those who live on its banks. Leaving our cold house behind, we drove south to check out the house of friends who live most of the year in Berlin. The coastal road was dotted with \"route barr\u00e9e, and route inond\u00e9e\" notices, and barriers had been set up to keep traffic away, but I have a French husband, so we went straight through regardless.High tide had been at 4am, and it was 104 on the French coefficient scale, which means a high spring tide. Coupled with 159kph winds, the villages didn't stand a chance. South from Royan, hugging the coast past Meschers and Talmont, flooded fields and pasture land shone blue in the bright sunlight. The road was littered with debris, tree trunks, planks, plastic bottles, mounds of rushes and old tyres. And while farmers stood and looked dejectedly at their sprouting wheat covered with swathes of jetsam, others were making the most of it, hurriedly loading their cars with free firewood. We kept the car radio tuned to France Bleu La Rochelle, which is the only means of communication for many. One woman was calling in for help from an isolated house in Les Boucholeurs, an isolated fishing village south of La Rochelle. Her daughter was stuck in a flooded house surrounded by water, with a two-month-old baby and no electricity to heat up milk. An appeal also came over for shoes and socks and warm jumpers, for those who had swum out of their homes in the middle of the night.In St Seurin d'Uze, the worst hit on the Gironde coast, no-one has forgotten the 1999 floods, in which a young woman and her child drowned. This time, the church had been flooded but already by 11am the pews stood piled high, and local women leaned on their brooms and looked proudly at the glistening floor tiles.Our friends' house in Barzan stands only a few meters from the harbour side. At the Auberge des Monards, the restaurant owners were hosing down their mud-coated dining-room, all the tables and chairs were out drying in the sun. And we spent the afternoon doing exactly the same: washing, hosing, moving furniture, wringing out bedding and clothes, and hosing all over again. Outside, it was high tide again and the water we kept pushing out of the front door had nowhere to go.Of course, the mockingly sunny Sunday brought onlookers, wanting to find a space to park among the drying chairs and the buckets and the sodden doormats \u2013 causing a minor traffic jam that prevented the fire brigade from doing its urgent job of pumping out water. Irritated, the mayor, Robert Maigre, who had been up since three in the morning doing the rounds of his commune, dragged out barriers to block access to the harbour.\"It's not for lack of asking,\" he said, \"as he pointed to the harbour banks. We've tried at local level, we've tried the departemental conseil g\u00e9neral but no-one's listening. It wouldn't take much, we just need the bank raised by a few centimetres, to keep us out of danger, but with only 250 inhabitants, we're too small. So here we are, ten years on, same thing all over again!\"", "tags": ["France", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Flooding", "Europe"], "title": "Violent storms devastate western France"},{"date": "2010-02-28T13:19:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "France was today struggling to cope with its most violent storm for 10 years, as winds of more than 100mph swept through the country, killing at least 40 people and leaving 1m homes without power. Central and western France were worst hit with gales and torrential rain felling trees and causing flooding. At least seven people drowned in villages in the Vend\u00e9e, while three elderly people and a child were found dead in Charente Maritime around La Rochelle. A man was killed by a falling tree branch in the south-western town of Luchon, where winds reached 90mph. As well as the known casualties, at least five other people were reported missing and dozens others injured. As the storm, known as Xynthia, progressed northwards through France over the weekend, five of the country's 95 departments were placed on red alert for only the second time in the emergency system's history. By this afternoon the alert had been downgraded.The M\u00e9t\u00e9o France weather agency predicted the worst would be over by this afternoon as the storm headed towards Denmark. Xynthia reached France yesterday after lashing parts of southern Europe with heavy winds and rain. In northern Portugal, a 10-year-old boy was killed by a falling tree branch while playing football, and authorities in Spain said two men died when their car was crushed by a falling tree. Tens of thousands of homes were left without electricity. The bad weather conditions caused transport chaos across France. Fallen trees and flooding caused roads and railway lines to be cut off, while some flights in and out of Charles de Gaulle (Roissy) airport, in northern Paris, were cancelled. Authorities at the garden of Versailles reported that 30 trees had fallen overnight. In the worst-hit areas on the western Atlantic coast, helicopters were deployed to rescue residents who had been forced to climb on to their roofs by floods. According to M\u00e9t\u00e9o France, Xynthia is the most violent storm France has seen since December 1999, when high winds caused widespread damage across the country.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Fatal storm sweeps through France"},{"date": "2010-02-01T12:09:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Have you been following that favourite British pastime, enthusiastically reciprocated beyond Calais, of watching the French making idiots of themselves again? It would be fun if it wasn't serious and didn't affect us too.I do not refer to the controversy over a bit of British academic research which suggested the G-spot may be a myth, the condescending French repudiation of which Lizzy Davies wittily reported in last week's Guardian. Crowdsourcing research continues.Nor even the acquittal of Dominque de Villepin in the conspiracy to stitch up Nicolas Sarkozy, his rival (past, present and future) for the French presidency by way of a very French funny-money smear campaign. (Busy Lizzy wrote up that Inspector Clouseau tale too.)No, the serious one is that vote by French MPs last week which would lead to a ban on the wearing of full Islamic covering \u2013 the niqab (face veil) as well as the burka (full body) \u2013 in official public spaces such as hospitals, post offices and buses.It's one of those compromises people think they're being smart to dream up; not a full ban, you understand, but a partial ban.As the Observer reported yesterday (that Lizzy Davies again) it must be seen in the context of France's commitment to secularism (la\u00efcit\u00e9), equality and other abstract concepts for which they are rightly famous.It underpins the notion that the French are all equal, but that people who want to be French must embrace what being French means. A Moroccan who became more devout after moving to France \u2013 surely an understandable response? \u2013 lost her bid for citizenship because she would not discard the niqab.I don't like any form of clothing or kit where one cannot see a person's mouth or eyes, both vital to reading what someone is saying, meaning or feeling at any given moment when you are trying to communicate. You have the voice to go by (as you do on the phone), but it's not always enough.So when Jack Straw expressed Jack-ish doubts about the suitability of the niqab (he asks visitors to his MP's surgery to uncover), I was on his side and added my strong dislike of sunglasses indoors (outdoor too, actually, but at least there they serve a function) to promote the view that this is not about being horrid to Muslims.That's a world away from banning people. You need a much better reason than personal discomfort to do that in a free society. I don't much care for facial piercings or tattoos either. \"So you want to make yourself ugly and unemployable, do you?\" I mutter to myself as I pass those who have them in the street. But we shouldn't ban them either.Yet British public opinion is almost as iffy as the French who have been suffering one of Sarko's public debates on national identity for six months or so. A ComRes poll for the Independent this morning shows that 59% support a ban on the burka in public places such as airports and banks \u2013 with 36% against.The young are more tolerant than the old, the cosmopolitan city-state of London more tolerant than the rest of Britain. No surprise there.Most people oppose a total ban, the sort of thing the BNP advocates, but think that schools should have the right to ban teachers in burkas if so minded \u2013 as the French have banned the wearing of headscarves and a daft court in Italy recently banned religious symbols such as crosses in school.One way or another we've all made mistakes. The Swiss voted the other week to ban minaret-building, not a major problem in Switzerland. Not many women wear the niqab in France \u2013 2,000 on some estimates \u2013 and even fewer the wretched burka.In London you rarely see either outside certain neighbourhoods, rich and poor, where Muslims live in large numbers. When I'm in need of directions in such areas I make it policy always to ask the woman in the burka, a form of affirmative action. Are they pleased? I've no idea, but they sometimes know the way.But we have got muddled over religious symbolism in schools and hospitals. The Christian Legal Centre has issued a statement only this morning confirming that Olive Jones, a teacher in Weston-super-Mare, has been offered her job back.Mrs Jones (54) was sacked by North Somerset council after offering to share her faith with a sick pupil and asking other children in the class to pray for her. The parents objected, but it turned out that no one had told teachers they were sensitive about faith matters.So a mistake was made. But no one investigated the case properly before the sacking either, according to the legal centre. But the good news is surely that a respected teacher got her job back.Live and let live should be the watchword, shouldn't it? And fairness of treatment too. If we want to ban funny kit in banks or at airports on security grounds the ban might be sensibly extended to all funny kit, including sunglasses and exploding underpants.The point is the France is a great brand. It is supposed to stand for something important in human affairs: liberty, equality and fraternity. It does, even though we have just been reminded that the offspring of the French Revolution brutally squeezed savage compensation out of republican Haiti for decades after its black slaves decided to follow Paris's intellectual lead and throw off oppression.Ditto Britain. Secular democracy's enemies, who use our liberal institutions \u2013 courts and benefit systems \u2013 while busily despising us, only thrive when we let ourselves down. We are stronger for being who we say we are, not what they say we are.Tucked away in yesterday's Observer article was a remark by Kheira (her niqab is in her handbag, she explains) who said: \"France is supposed to be a free country. Nowadays women have the right to take their clothes off, but not to put them on.\"Well said, Kheira. I'd like to think Simone de Beauvoir would applaud you, though I'm not confident. What's more you sound quite French and modern too me. Good.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "France", "Islam", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "French burqa and niqab ban", "Islamic veil"], "title": "France, don't ban the niqab | Michael White"},{"date": "2010-03-25T12:49:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "An unemployed man suspected of hacking into Twitter accounts including those of Barack Obama and Britney Spears could face up to two years in prison after French police and the FBI tracked him down.The man, whose real name has not been released but who allegedly adopted the username Hacker Croll online, was arrested this week by police in Clermont-Ferrand, in the Auvergne, and released last night after questioning by French and US authorities.Last July the FBI discovered that an anonymous hacker, traced to France, had gained access to Twitter as an administrator and taken screengrabs of individuals' accounts. According to the technology website TechCrunch, which came under fire for publishing information sent to it by Croll, he began with Twitter employees and branched out through accounts with Gmail, PayPal, Amazon and others.French police said today they did not believe the hacker, aged 25, had been working for financial profit. \"It was more a challenge,\" said a source.Adeline Champagnat, from the police's cybercrime unit, said the hacker appeared to have been motivated by curiosity. \"He didn't want to make any money out of it,\" she told a French radio station.In an interview last year with the French online magazine Zataz, Croll said his work was solely motivated by a desire to show what he could do. \"I hack therefore I am,\" he said. \"But no question of damaging or destroying. I could easily resell what I have found, but that's out of the question.\"Champagnat said the police believed Croll had used simple but time-intensive techniques to recover passwords of the accounts he targeted, trawling blogs and forums in order to try to guess crucial information.The suspect, who lives in the Puy de D\u00f4me area of central France, has been ordered to stand trial on 24 June in Clermont-Ferrand.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Hacking", "Twitter", "Internet", "Technology", "Europe"], "title": "Twitter hacker suspect held in France"},{"date": "2010-03-09T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Roman Catholic church does not approve of untramelled globalisation so an international trade in communion wafers should not be threatening the livelihood of French convents. Yet it is. Nearly sixty contemplative houses in France are feeling their livelihoods threatened by falling demand for the wafers that the make. Not only is the number of Catholics in France falling, but their product is undercut by cheap imports from Poland, which come from a secular factory. Bad enough that the French were threatened by \"The Polish plumber\"; the Polish wafer is an even more serious attack on the tranquil heart of France.For the moment the danger has been averted after the nuns publicised a threat by the shrine at Lourdes to switch to the Polish wafer. But in the long run, this little industry may be threatened like every other part of traditional French agriculture. In vain the charming little websites showing in detail how the wafers are made. One convent explains themselves: \"We know we are useless in the eyes of many in a world shaped by the pursuit of profit and of efficiency, but our happiness is rooted in a love freely given\" and it's a shame to think of these 18 sisters outside Avignon forced to find some other way to earn a living. But in the wider world, the change has already happened.At Christmas, the New York Times ran a remarkable story about a Rhode Island bakery which has captured 80% of the market for communion wafers in the US, Canada, and even here and Australia. The Cavanagh company's wafers are truly ecumenical. They are praised by Anglicans, Lutherans and Methodists as well as Roman Catholics. They can be snapped theatrically without crumbs. And 850m of them were sold last year. The cunning thing, though, is their marketing strategy: in Catholic dioceses, they sell to monasteries and convents, which then sell them on to the churches, keeping an income without the industry. I do not think St Benedict would have approved. His rule established that monks should spend a third of their waking hours in prayer, a third in study, and a third in manual labour. The hard work of baking was part of its attraction. In this country, the manufacture of Catholic communion hosts is largely the responsibility of the contemplative orders. Some of the convents here are already selling on the Polish wafers, according to Sister Mary Bernadette, who has the improbable job of press officer for the Association of British Contemplatives. And this is probably the least inflammatory solution to the French crisis. If it were discovered that an American firm were muscling into the supply of French communion wafers, the riots against McDonalds would look like a tea party in a convent of contemplatives.", "tags": ["Religion", "Catholicism", "France", "World news", "Poland", "Europe"], "title": "The Polish wafer threatens France | Andrew Brown"},{"date": "2010-03-01T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "On the Atlantic coast, we've seen all this weather before. Just over ten years ago, the coast of Charente-Maritime was struck by a hurricane and floods, and the mouth of the Gironde estuary burst its banks and filled every little fishing port and the valleys of the hinterland with salt water.This weekend the French weather services gave us plenty of warning. We shut all the shutters, moved the cars out of the way of the Scots pine that we used to love but now mistrust each time the wind soughs in its branches. For the events of December 1999 have left everyone in the area with a fear of the sound of wind.By three in the morning, the buffeting wind and rain had us fully awake, and after an enormous flash in the sky, power was cut and we were groping for torches. At dawn, we ventured out to see the damage. We were lucky, only a few branches down. We dug out the camping gas to make tea and a battery-run radio, to hear Maxime Bono, mayor of La Rochelle, saying that this was even worse than 1999.We live an hour south of La Rochelle, on the Gironde Estuary. The worst hit areas are to the north of us, seaside towns like Aytr\u00e9, Chatelaillon, the Ile de R\u00e9, and north into the Vend\u00e9e, but the Gironde estuary is tidal, and reserves special treatment for those who live on its banks. Leaving our cold house behind, we drove south to check out the house of friends who live most of the year in Berlin. The coastal road was dotted with \"route barr\u00e9e, and route inond\u00e9e\" notices, and barriers had been set up to keep traffic away, but I have a French husband, so we went straight through regardless.High tide had been at 4am, and it was 104 on the French coefficient scale, which means a high spring tide. Coupled with 159kph winds, the villages didn't stand a chance. South from Royan, hugging the coast past Meschers and Talmont, flooded fields and pasture land shone blue in the bright sunlight. The road was littered with debris, tree trunks, planks, plastic bottles, mounds of rushes and old tyres. And while farmers stood and looked dejectedly at their sprouting wheat covered with swathes of jetsam, others were making the most of it, hurriedly loading their cars with free firewood. We kept the car radio tuned to France Bleu La Rochelle, which is the only means of communication for many. One woman was calling in for help from an isolated house in Les Boucholeurs, an isolated fishing village south of La Rochelle. Her daughter was stuck in a flooded house surrounded by water, with a two-month-old baby and no electricity to heat up milk. An appeal also came over for shoes and socks and warm jumpers, for those who had swum out of their homes in the middle of the night.In St Seurin d'Uze, the worst hit on the Gironde coast, no-one has forgotten the 1999 floods, in which a young woman and her child drowned. This time, the church had been flooded but already by 11am the pews stood piled high, and local women leaned on their brooms and looked proudly at the glistening floor tiles.Our friends' house in Barzan stands only a few meters from the harbour side. At the Auberge des Monards, the restaurant owners were hosing down their mud-coated dining-room, all the tables and chairs were out drying in the sun. And we spent the afternoon doing exactly the same: washing, hosing, moving furniture, wringing out bedding and clothes, and hosing all over again. Outside, it was high tide again and the water we kept pushing out of the front door had nowhere to go.Of course, the mockingly sunny Sunday brought onlookers, wanting to find a space to park among the drying chairs and the buckets and the sodden doormats \u2013 causing a minor traffic jam that prevented the fire brigade from doing its urgent job of pumping out water. Irritated, the mayor, Robert Maigre, who had been up since three in the morning doing the rounds of his commune, dragged out barriers to block access to the harbour.\"It's not for lack of asking,\" he said, \"as he pointed to the harbour banks. We've tried at local level, we've tried the departemental conseil g\u00e9neral but no-one's listening. It wouldn't take much, we just need the bank raised by a few centimetres, to keep us out of danger, but with only 250 inhabitants, we're too small. So here we are, ten years on, same thing all over again!\"", "tags": ["France", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Flooding", "Europe"], "title": "Violent storms devastate western France"},{"date": "2010-02-28T13:19:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "France was today struggling to cope with its most violent storm for 10 years, as winds of more than 100mph swept through the country, killing at least 40 people and leaving 1m homes without power. Central and western France were worst hit with gales and torrential rain felling trees and causing flooding. At least seven people drowned in villages in the Vend\u00e9e, while three elderly people and a child were found dead in Charente Maritime around La Rochelle. A man was killed by a falling tree branch in the south-western town of Luchon, where winds reached 90mph. As well as the known casualties, at least five other people were reported missing and dozens others injured. As the storm, known as Xynthia, progressed northwards through France over the weekend, five of the country's 95 departments were placed on red alert for only the second time in the emergency system's history. By this afternoon the alert had been downgraded.The M\u00e9t\u00e9o France weather agency predicted the worst would be over by this afternoon as the storm headed towards Denmark. Xynthia reached France yesterday after lashing parts of southern Europe with heavy winds and rain. In northern Portugal, a 10-year-old boy was killed by a falling tree branch while playing football, and authorities in Spain said two men died when their car was crushed by a falling tree. Tens of thousands of homes were left without electricity. The bad weather conditions caused transport chaos across France. Fallen trees and flooding caused roads and railway lines to be cut off, while some flights in and out of Charles de Gaulle (Roissy) airport, in northern Paris, were cancelled. Authorities at the garden of Versailles reported that 30 trees had fallen overnight. In the worst-hit areas on the western Atlantic coast, helicopters were deployed to rescue residents who had been forced to climb on to their roofs by floods. According to M\u00e9t\u00e9o France, Xynthia is the most violent storm France has seen since December 1999, when high winds caused widespread damage across the country.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Fatal storm sweeps through France"},{"date": "2010-02-01T12:09:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Have you been following that favourite British pastime, enthusiastically reciprocated beyond Calais, of watching the French making idiots of themselves again? It would be fun if it wasn't serious and didn't affect us too.I do not refer to the controversy over a bit of British academic research which suggested the G-spot may be a myth, the condescending French repudiation of which Lizzy Davies wittily reported in last week's Guardian. Crowdsourcing research continues.Nor even the acquittal of Dominque de Villepin in the conspiracy to stitch up Nicolas Sarkozy, his rival (past, present and future) for the French presidency by way of a very French funny-money smear campaign. (Busy Lizzy wrote up that Inspector Clouseau tale too.)No, the serious one is that vote by French MPs last week which would lead to a ban on the wearing of full Islamic covering \u2013 the niqab (face veil) as well as the burka (full body) \u2013 in official public spaces such as hospitals, post offices and buses.It's one of those compromises people think they're being smart to dream up; not a full ban, you understand, but a partial ban.As the Observer reported yesterday (that Lizzy Davies again) it must be seen in the context of France's commitment to secularism (la\u00efcit\u00e9), equality and other abstract concepts for which they are rightly famous.It underpins the notion that the French are all equal, but that people who want to be French must embrace what being French means. A Moroccan who became more devout after moving to France \u2013 surely an understandable response? \u2013 lost her bid for citizenship because she would not discard the niqab.I don't like any form of clothing or kit where one cannot see a person's mouth or eyes, both vital to reading what someone is saying, meaning or feeling at any given moment when you are trying to communicate. You have the voice to go by (as you do on the phone), but it's not always enough.So when Jack Straw expressed Jack-ish doubts about the suitability of the niqab (he asks visitors to his MP's surgery to uncover), I was on his side and added my strong dislike of sunglasses indoors (outdoor too, actually, but at least there they serve a function) to promote the view that this is not about being horrid to Muslims.That's a world away from banning people. You need a much better reason than personal discomfort to do that in a free society. I don't much care for facial piercings or tattoos either. \"So you want to make yourself ugly and unemployable, do you?\" I mutter to myself as I pass those who have them in the street. But we shouldn't ban them either.Yet British public opinion is almost as iffy as the French who have been suffering one of Sarko's public debates on national identity for six months or so. A ComRes poll for the Independent this morning shows that 59% support a ban on the burka in public places such as airports and banks \u2013 with 36% against.The young are more tolerant than the old, the cosmopolitan city-state of London more tolerant than the rest of Britain. No surprise there.Most people oppose a total ban, the sort of thing the BNP advocates, but think that schools should have the right to ban teachers in burkas if so minded \u2013 as the French have banned the wearing of headscarves and a daft court in Italy recently banned religious symbols such as crosses in school.One way or another we've all made mistakes. The Swiss voted the other week to ban minaret-building, not a major problem in Switzerland. Not many women wear the niqab in France \u2013 2,000 on some estimates \u2013 and even fewer the wretched burka.In London you rarely see either outside certain neighbourhoods, rich and poor, where Muslims live in large numbers. When I'm in need of directions in such areas I make it policy always to ask the woman in the burka, a form of affirmative action. Are they pleased? I've no idea, but they sometimes know the way.But we have got muddled over religious symbolism in schools and hospitals. The Christian Legal Centre has issued a statement only this morning confirming that Olive Jones, a teacher in Weston-super-Mare, has been offered her job back.Mrs Jones (54) was sacked by North Somerset council after offering to share her faith with a sick pupil and asking other children in the class to pray for her. The parents objected, but it turned out that no one had told teachers they were sensitive about faith matters.So a mistake was made. But no one investigated the case properly before the sacking either, according to the legal centre. But the good news is surely that a respected teacher got her job back.Live and let live should be the watchword, shouldn't it? And fairness of treatment too. If we want to ban funny kit in banks or at airports on security grounds the ban might be sensibly extended to all funny kit, including sunglasses and exploding underpants.The point is the France is a great brand. It is supposed to stand for something important in human affairs: liberty, equality and fraternity. It does, even though we have just been reminded that the offspring of the French Revolution brutally squeezed savage compensation out of republican Haiti for decades after its black slaves decided to follow Paris's intellectual lead and throw off oppression.Ditto Britain. Secular democracy's enemies, who use our liberal institutions \u2013 courts and benefit systems \u2013 while busily despising us, only thrive when we let ourselves down. We are stronger for being who we say we are, not what they say we are.Tucked away in yesterday's Observer article was a remark by Kheira (her niqab is in her handbag, she explains) who said: \"France is supposed to be a free country. Nowadays women have the right to take their clothes off, but not to put them on.\"Well said, Kheira. I'd like to think Simone de Beauvoir would applaud you, though I'm not confident. What's more you sound quite French and modern too me. Good.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "France", "Islam", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "French burqa and niqab ban", "Islamic veil"], "title": "France, don't ban the niqab | Michael White"},{"date": "2010-03-25T12:49:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "An unemployed man suspected of hacking into Twitter accounts including those of Barack Obama and Britney Spears could face up to two years in prison after French police and the FBI tracked him down.The man, whose real name has not been released but who allegedly adopted the username Hacker Croll online, was arrested this week by police in Clermont-Ferrand, in the Auvergne, and released last night after questioning by French and US authorities.Last July the FBI discovered that an anonymous hacker, traced to France, had gained access to Twitter as an administrator and taken screengrabs of individuals' accounts. According to the technology website TechCrunch, which came under fire for publishing information sent to it by Croll, he began with Twitter employees and branched out through accounts with Gmail, PayPal, Amazon and others.French police said today they did not believe the hacker, aged 25, had been working for financial profit. \"It was more a challenge,\" said a source.Adeline Champagnat, from the police's cybercrime unit, said the hacker appeared to have been motivated by curiosity. \"He didn't want to make any money out of it,\" she told a French radio station.In an interview last year with the French online magazine Zataz, Croll said his work was solely motivated by a desire to show what he could do. \"I hack therefore I am,\" he said. \"But no question of damaging or destroying. I could easily resell what I have found, but that's out of the question.\"Champagnat said the police believed Croll had used simple but time-intensive techniques to recover passwords of the accounts he targeted, trawling blogs and forums in order to try to guess crucial information.The suspect, who lives in the Puy de D\u00f4me area of central France, has been ordered to stand trial on 24 June in Clermont-Ferrand.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Hacking", "Twitter", "Internet", "Technology", "Europe"], "title": "Twitter hacker suspect held in France"},{"date": "2010-03-22T00:05:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Regions may not seem very significant in a country that has long been highly centralised, but France's regional elections yesterday will be. The ruling UMP held on to Alsace and managed to stop the haemorrhage of support started in the first round of voting a week ago, with a slightly lower abstention rate. It was not the knock-out blow that the Nouvel Observateur predicted in another pun on the president's malleable name (Has Sarko been KOed, it asked). But this was still a stunning victory for the left and reminiscent of the result in 2004. It is not just that this was the last electoral test before the presidentials in 2012. It is also the manner in which his ruling UMP party lost.This election witnessed a significant reversal of the roles played out over the past eight years. The formerly fractious Socialists \u2013 arguing over the deckchairs as the ship has been sinking beneath them \u2013 have rediscovered the art of forming alliances by reaching out in both directions, to the greens and the far left. Meanwhile, the conservative UMP seems to have run out of road, squeezed on the right by a stubbornly resurgent Front National, and in the centre by mass abstentions. The UMP always remained a coalition between centrism and Gaullism, but having consumed the centrist UDF, it has found itself with no one to turn to.None of the ballot papers had the president's name on it, but the recriminations starting today almost certainly will. The president's instinct will be to kick the cat, and dismiss his prime minister, Fran\u00e7ois Fillon. Except that he is no more able to do that than Gordon Brown was to remove Alistair Darling a year ago. The amiable prime minister is more sure-footed and popular than his mercurial president. And Mr Fillon's powers as a negotiator will be needed in full if Mr Sarkozy is to modernise the pension system, the most perilous part of his reform programme. Mr Sarkozy is more likely to cast the Socialists, for example, foreign minister Bernard Kouchner, out of his government.Martine Aubry has been the Socialist heroine of this election. The daughter of Jacques Delors, she has struggled to impose her authority over a party dominated by large political egos. With one wobble (a row with the president of Languedoc-Roussillon, who made an antisemitic allusion to the former prime minister, Laurent Fabius). Ms Aubry held the show together and formed a valuable alliance with Daniel Cohn-Bendit's Europe \u00c9cologie. Having, for the moment, seen off the former Socialist presidential candidate S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royale, and faced with the possible return of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who may find that running the IMF does not make the strongest springboard for the presidency, Ms Aubry is in a good position to press the case for her own candidacy against Mr Sarkozy in 2012.", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France: Left back problem for Sarkozy | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-09T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Roman Catholic church does not approve of untramelled globalisation so an international trade in communion wafers should not be threatening the livelihood of French convents. Yet it is. Nearly sixty contemplative houses in France are feeling their livelihoods threatened by falling demand for the wafers that the make. Not only is the number of Catholics in France falling, but their product is undercut by cheap imports from Poland, which come from a secular factory. Bad enough that the French were threatened by \"The Polish plumber\"; the Polish wafer is an even more serious attack on the tranquil heart of France.For the moment the danger has been averted after the nuns publicised a threat by the shrine at Lourdes to switch to the Polish wafer. But in the long run, this little industry may be threatened like every other part of traditional French agriculture. In vain the charming little websites showing in detail how the wafers are made. One convent explains themselves: \"We know we are useless in the eyes of many in a world shaped by the pursuit of profit and of efficiency, but our happiness is rooted in a love freely given\" and it's a shame to think of these 18 sisters outside Avignon forced to find some other way to earn a living. But in the wider world, the change has already happened.At Christmas, the New York Times ran a remarkable story about a Rhode Island bakery which has captured 80% of the market for communion wafers in the US, Canada, and even here and Australia. The Cavanagh company's wafers are truly ecumenical. They are praised by Anglicans, Lutherans and Methodists as well as Roman Catholics. They can be snapped theatrically without crumbs. And 850m of them were sold last year. The cunning thing, though, is their marketing strategy: in Catholic dioceses, they sell to monasteries and convents, which then sell them on to the churches, keeping an income without the industry. I do not think St Benedict would have approved. His rule established that monks should spend a third of their waking hours in prayer, a third in study, and a third in manual labour. The hard work of baking was part of its attraction. In this country, the manufacture of Catholic communion hosts is largely the responsibility of the contemplative orders. Some of the convents here are already selling on the Polish wafers, according to Sister Mary Bernadette, who has the improbable job of press officer for the Association of British Contemplatives. And this is probably the least inflammatory solution to the French crisis. If it were discovered that an American firm were muscling into the supply of French communion wafers, the riots against McDonalds would look like a tea party in a convent of contemplatives.", "tags": ["Religion", "Catholicism", "France", "World news", "Poland", "Europe"], "title": "The Polish wafer threatens France | Andrew Brown"},{"date": "2010-03-01T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "On the Atlantic coast, we've seen all this weather before. Just over ten years ago, the coast of Charente-Maritime was struck by a hurricane and floods, and the mouth of the Gironde estuary burst its banks and filled every little fishing port and the valleys of the hinterland with salt water.This weekend the French weather services gave us plenty of warning. We shut all the shutters, moved the cars out of the way of the Scots pine that we used to love but now mistrust each time the wind soughs in its branches. For the events of December 1999 have left everyone in the area with a fear of the sound of wind.By three in the morning, the buffeting wind and rain had us fully awake, and after an enormous flash in the sky, power was cut and we were groping for torches. At dawn, we ventured out to see the damage. We were lucky, only a few branches down. We dug out the camping gas to make tea and a battery-run radio, to hear Maxime Bono, mayor of La Rochelle, saying that this was even worse than 1999.We live an hour south of La Rochelle, on the Gironde Estuary. The worst hit areas are to the north of us, seaside towns like Aytr\u00e9, Chatelaillon, the Ile de R\u00e9, and north into the Vend\u00e9e, but the Gironde estuary is tidal, and reserves special treatment for those who live on its banks. Leaving our cold house behind, we drove south to check out the house of friends who live most of the year in Berlin. The coastal road was dotted with \"route barr\u00e9e, and route inond\u00e9e\" notices, and barriers had been set up to keep traffic away, but I have a French husband, so we went straight through regardless.High tide had been at 4am, and it was 104 on the French coefficient scale, which means a high spring tide. Coupled with 159kph winds, the villages didn't stand a chance. South from Royan, hugging the coast past Meschers and Talmont, flooded fields and pasture land shone blue in the bright sunlight. The road was littered with debris, tree trunks, planks, plastic bottles, mounds of rushes and old tyres. And while farmers stood and looked dejectedly at their sprouting wheat covered with swathes of jetsam, others were making the most of it, hurriedly loading their cars with free firewood. We kept the car radio tuned to France Bleu La Rochelle, which is the only means of communication for many. One woman was calling in for help from an isolated house in Les Boucholeurs, an isolated fishing village south of La Rochelle. Her daughter was stuck in a flooded house surrounded by water, with a two-month-old baby and no electricity to heat up milk. An appeal also came over for shoes and socks and warm jumpers, for those who had swum out of their homes in the middle of the night.In St Seurin d'Uze, the worst hit on the Gironde coast, no-one has forgotten the 1999 floods, in which a young woman and her child drowned. This time, the church had been flooded but already by 11am the pews stood piled high, and local women leaned on their brooms and looked proudly at the glistening floor tiles.Our friends' house in Barzan stands only a few meters from the harbour side. At the Auberge des Monards, the restaurant owners were hosing down their mud-coated dining-room, all the tables and chairs were out drying in the sun. And we spent the afternoon doing exactly the same: washing, hosing, moving furniture, wringing out bedding and clothes, and hosing all over again. Outside, it was high tide again and the water we kept pushing out of the front door had nowhere to go.Of course, the mockingly sunny Sunday brought onlookers, wanting to find a space to park among the drying chairs and the buckets and the sodden doormats \u2013 causing a minor traffic jam that prevented the fire brigade from doing its urgent job of pumping out water. Irritated, the mayor, Robert Maigre, who had been up since three in the morning doing the rounds of his commune, dragged out barriers to block access to the harbour.\"It's not for lack of asking,\" he said, \"as he pointed to the harbour banks. We've tried at local level, we've tried the departemental conseil g\u00e9neral but no-one's listening. It wouldn't take much, we just need the bank raised by a few centimetres, to keep us out of danger, but with only 250 inhabitants, we're too small. So here we are, ten years on, same thing all over again!\"", "tags": ["France", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Flooding", "Europe"], "title": "Violent storms devastate western France"},{"date": "2010-02-28T13:19:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "France was today struggling to cope with its most violent storm for 10 years, as winds of more than 100mph swept through the country, killing at least 40 people and leaving 1m homes without power. Central and western France were worst hit with gales and torrential rain felling trees and causing flooding. At least seven people drowned in villages in the Vend\u00e9e, while three elderly people and a child were found dead in Charente Maritime around La Rochelle. A man was killed by a falling tree branch in the south-western town of Luchon, where winds reached 90mph. As well as the known casualties, at least five other people were reported missing and dozens others injured. As the storm, known as Xynthia, progressed northwards through France over the weekend, five of the country's 95 departments were placed on red alert for only the second time in the emergency system's history. By this afternoon the alert had been downgraded.The M\u00e9t\u00e9o France weather agency predicted the worst would be over by this afternoon as the storm headed towards Denmark. Xynthia reached France yesterday after lashing parts of southern Europe with heavy winds and rain. In northern Portugal, a 10-year-old boy was killed by a falling tree branch while playing football, and authorities in Spain said two men died when their car was crushed by a falling tree. Tens of thousands of homes were left without electricity. The bad weather conditions caused transport chaos across France. Fallen trees and flooding caused roads and railway lines to be cut off, while some flights in and out of Charles de Gaulle (Roissy) airport, in northern Paris, were cancelled. Authorities at the garden of Versailles reported that 30 trees had fallen overnight. In the worst-hit areas on the western Atlantic coast, helicopters were deployed to rescue residents who had been forced to climb on to their roofs by floods. According to M\u00e9t\u00e9o France, Xynthia is the most violent storm France has seen since December 1999, when high winds caused widespread damage across the country.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Fatal storm sweeps through France"},{"date": "2010-02-01T12:09:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Have you been following that favourite British pastime, enthusiastically reciprocated beyond Calais, of watching the French making idiots of themselves again? It would be fun if it wasn't serious and didn't affect us too.I do not refer to the controversy over a bit of British academic research which suggested the G-spot may be a myth, the condescending French repudiation of which Lizzy Davies wittily reported in last week's Guardian. Crowdsourcing research continues.Nor even the acquittal of Dominque de Villepin in the conspiracy to stitch up Nicolas Sarkozy, his rival (past, present and future) for the French presidency by way of a very French funny-money smear campaign. (Busy Lizzy wrote up that Inspector Clouseau tale too.)No, the serious one is that vote by French MPs last week which would lead to a ban on the wearing of full Islamic covering \u2013 the niqab (face veil) as well as the burka (full body) \u2013 in official public spaces such as hospitals, post offices and buses.It's one of those compromises people think they're being smart to dream up; not a full ban, you understand, but a partial ban.As the Observer reported yesterday (that Lizzy Davies again) it must be seen in the context of France's commitment to secularism (la\u00efcit\u00e9), equality and other abstract concepts for which they are rightly famous.It underpins the notion that the French are all equal, but that people who want to be French must embrace what being French means. A Moroccan who became more devout after moving to France \u2013 surely an understandable response? \u2013 lost her bid for citizenship because she would not discard the niqab.I don't like any form of clothing or kit where one cannot see a person's mouth or eyes, both vital to reading what someone is saying, meaning or feeling at any given moment when you are trying to communicate. You have the voice to go by (as you do on the phone), but it's not always enough.So when Jack Straw expressed Jack-ish doubts about the suitability of the niqab (he asks visitors to his MP's surgery to uncover), I was on his side and added my strong dislike of sunglasses indoors (outdoor too, actually, but at least there they serve a function) to promote the view that this is not about being horrid to Muslims.That's a world away from banning people. You need a much better reason than personal discomfort to do that in a free society. I don't much care for facial piercings or tattoos either. \"So you want to make yourself ugly and unemployable, do you?\" I mutter to myself as I pass those who have them in the street. But we shouldn't ban them either.Yet British public opinion is almost as iffy as the French who have been suffering one of Sarko's public debates on national identity for six months or so. A ComRes poll for the Independent this morning shows that 59% support a ban on the burka in public places such as airports and banks \u2013 with 36% against.The young are more tolerant than the old, the cosmopolitan city-state of London more tolerant than the rest of Britain. No surprise there.Most people oppose a total ban, the sort of thing the BNP advocates, but think that schools should have the right to ban teachers in burkas if so minded \u2013 as the French have banned the wearing of headscarves and a daft court in Italy recently banned religious symbols such as crosses in school.One way or another we've all made mistakes. The Swiss voted the other week to ban minaret-building, not a major problem in Switzerland. Not many women wear the niqab in France \u2013 2,000 on some estimates \u2013 and even fewer the wretched burka.In London you rarely see either outside certain neighbourhoods, rich and poor, where Muslims live in large numbers. When I'm in need of directions in such areas I make it policy always to ask the woman in the burka, a form of affirmative action. Are they pleased? I've no idea, but they sometimes know the way.But we have got muddled over religious symbolism in schools and hospitals. The Christian Legal Centre has issued a statement only this morning confirming that Olive Jones, a teacher in Weston-super-Mare, has been offered her job back.Mrs Jones (54) was sacked by North Somerset council after offering to share her faith with a sick pupil and asking other children in the class to pray for her. The parents objected, but it turned out that no one had told teachers they were sensitive about faith matters.So a mistake was made. But no one investigated the case properly before the sacking either, according to the legal centre. But the good news is surely that a respected teacher got her job back.Live and let live should be the watchword, shouldn't it? And fairness of treatment too. If we want to ban funny kit in banks or at airports on security grounds the ban might be sensibly extended to all funny kit, including sunglasses and exploding underpants.The point is the France is a great brand. It is supposed to stand for something important in human affairs: liberty, equality and fraternity. It does, even though we have just been reminded that the offspring of the French Revolution brutally squeezed savage compensation out of republican Haiti for decades after its black slaves decided to follow Paris's intellectual lead and throw off oppression.Ditto Britain. Secular democracy's enemies, who use our liberal institutions \u2013 courts and benefit systems \u2013 while busily despising us, only thrive when we let ourselves down. We are stronger for being who we say we are, not what they say we are.Tucked away in yesterday's Observer article was a remark by Kheira (her niqab is in her handbag, she explains) who said: \"France is supposed to be a free country. Nowadays women have the right to take their clothes off, but not to put them on.\"Well said, Kheira. I'd like to think Simone de Beauvoir would applaud you, though I'm not confident. What's more you sound quite French and modern too me. Good.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "France", "Islam", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "French burqa and niqab ban", "Islamic veil"], "title": "France, don't ban the niqab | Michael White"},{"date": "2010-03-25T12:49:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "An unemployed man suspected of hacking into Twitter accounts including those of Barack Obama and Britney Spears could face up to two years in prison after French police and the FBI tracked him down.The man, whose real name has not been released but who allegedly adopted the username Hacker Croll online, was arrested this week by police in Clermont-Ferrand, in the Auvergne, and released last night after questioning by French and US authorities.Last July the FBI discovered that an anonymous hacker, traced to France, had gained access to Twitter as an administrator and taken screengrabs of individuals' accounts. According to the technology website TechCrunch, which came under fire for publishing information sent to it by Croll, he began with Twitter employees and branched out through accounts with Gmail, PayPal, Amazon and others.French police said today they did not believe the hacker, aged 25, had been working for financial profit. \"It was more a challenge,\" said a source.Adeline Champagnat, from the police's cybercrime unit, said the hacker appeared to have been motivated by curiosity. \"He didn't want to make any money out of it,\" she told a French radio station.In an interview last year with the French online magazine Zataz, Croll said his work was solely motivated by a desire to show what he could do. \"I hack therefore I am,\" he said. \"But no question of damaging or destroying. I could easily resell what I have found, but that's out of the question.\"Champagnat said the police believed Croll had used simple but time-intensive techniques to recover passwords of the accounts he targeted, trawling blogs and forums in order to try to guess crucial information.The suspect, who lives in the Puy de D\u00f4me area of central France, has been ordered to stand trial on 24 June in Clermont-Ferrand.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Hacking", "Twitter", "Internet", "Technology", "Europe"], "title": "Twitter hacker suspect held in France"},{"date": "2010-03-22T00:05:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Regions may not seem very significant in a country that has long been highly centralised, but France's regional elections yesterday will be. The ruling UMP held on to Alsace and managed to stop the haemorrhage of support started in the first round of voting a week ago, with a slightly lower abstention rate. It was not the knock-out blow that the Nouvel Observateur predicted in another pun on the president's malleable name (Has Sarko been KOed, it asked). But this was still a stunning victory for the left and reminiscent of the result in 2004. It is not just that this was the last electoral test before the presidentials in 2012. It is also the manner in which his ruling UMP party lost.This election witnessed a significant reversal of the roles played out over the past eight years. The formerly fractious Socialists \u2013 arguing over the deckchairs as the ship has been sinking beneath them \u2013 have rediscovered the art of forming alliances by reaching out in both directions, to the greens and the far left. Meanwhile, the conservative UMP seems to have run out of road, squeezed on the right by a stubbornly resurgent Front National, and in the centre by mass abstentions. The UMP always remained a coalition between centrism and Gaullism, but having consumed the centrist UDF, it has found itself with no one to turn to.None of the ballot papers had the president's name on it, but the recriminations starting today almost certainly will. The president's instinct will be to kick the cat, and dismiss his prime minister, Fran\u00e7ois Fillon. Except that he is no more able to do that than Gordon Brown was to remove Alistair Darling a year ago. The amiable prime minister is more sure-footed and popular than his mercurial president. And Mr Fillon's powers as a negotiator will be needed in full if Mr Sarkozy is to modernise the pension system, the most perilous part of his reform programme. Mr Sarkozy is more likely to cast the Socialists, for example, foreign minister Bernard Kouchner, out of his government.Martine Aubry has been the Socialist heroine of this election. The daughter of Jacques Delors, she has struggled to impose her authority over a party dominated by large political egos. With one wobble (a row with the president of Languedoc-Roussillon, who made an antisemitic allusion to the former prime minister, Laurent Fabius). Ms Aubry held the show together and formed a valuable alliance with Daniel Cohn-Bendit's Europe \u00c9cologie. Having, for the moment, seen off the former Socialist presidential candidate S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royale, and faced with the possible return of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who may find that running the IMF does not make the strongest springboard for the presidency, Ms Aubry is in a good position to press the case for her own candidacy against Mr Sarkozy in 2012.", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France: Left back problem for Sarkozy | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-19T00:05:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "From the Norman Conquest to the Sun's ineffable \"Hop Off You Frogs\" relations between Britain - mainly England - and France have tended to be fraught, not least militarily.The two sides have historically been \"most dear enemies\" and the roll call of battles around the world - Crecy, Agincourt, Blenheim, Quebec, Waterloo - have echoed the wars fought: 100 Years' War, Spanish Succession, Austrian Succession, Seven Years, Napoleonic.Since 1815 however, it's mostly been cooperation: in the Crimea, the First World War, Second World War (overlooking the sinking of the French fleet at Mers-el-Kabir), Suez. The Entente Cordiale has lasted since 1904.But mutual incomprehension can break through: Lord Raglan, a veteran of Waterloo, leading the British army in the Crimea, kept on referring to his French allies as the enemy and British generals in the First World War had problems understanding their French counterparts - as they did the Brits.Sarkozy may be the first French president actively anxious to court les Anglo-Saxons. Addressing Parliament two years ago he called for a \"new brotherhood\".Most antagonism now is fortunately confined to the rugby field. Ominously however there are reports that the old affectionate French term for the English: \"les rosbifs\" has been replaced by a more demotic term they hear too often on English lips: \"les fuck-offs.\"", "tags": ["France", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "Britain and France: a troubled alliance"},{"date": "2010-03-09T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Roman Catholic church does not approve of untramelled globalisation so an international trade in communion wafers should not be threatening the livelihood of French convents. Yet it is. Nearly sixty contemplative houses in France are feeling their livelihoods threatened by falling demand for the wafers that the make. Not only is the number of Catholics in France falling, but their product is undercut by cheap imports from Poland, which come from a secular factory. Bad enough that the French were threatened by \"The Polish plumber\"; the Polish wafer is an even more serious attack on the tranquil heart of France.For the moment the danger has been averted after the nuns publicised a threat by the shrine at Lourdes to switch to the Polish wafer. But in the long run, this little industry may be threatened like every other part of traditional French agriculture. In vain the charming little websites showing in detail how the wafers are made. One convent explains themselves: \"We know we are useless in the eyes of many in a world shaped by the pursuit of profit and of efficiency, but our happiness is rooted in a love freely given\" and it's a shame to think of these 18 sisters outside Avignon forced to find some other way to earn a living. But in the wider world, the change has already happened.At Christmas, the New York Times ran a remarkable story about a Rhode Island bakery which has captured 80% of the market for communion wafers in the US, Canada, and even here and Australia. The Cavanagh company's wafers are truly ecumenical. They are praised by Anglicans, Lutherans and Methodists as well as Roman Catholics. They can be snapped theatrically without crumbs. And 850m of them were sold last year. The cunning thing, though, is their marketing strategy: in Catholic dioceses, they sell to monasteries and convents, which then sell them on to the churches, keeping an income without the industry. I do not think St Benedict would have approved. His rule established that monks should spend a third of their waking hours in prayer, a third in study, and a third in manual labour. The hard work of baking was part of its attraction. In this country, the manufacture of Catholic communion hosts is largely the responsibility of the contemplative orders. Some of the convents here are already selling on the Polish wafers, according to Sister Mary Bernadette, who has the improbable job of press officer for the Association of British Contemplatives. And this is probably the least inflammatory solution to the French crisis. If it were discovered that an American firm were muscling into the supply of French communion wafers, the riots against McDonalds would look like a tea party in a convent of contemplatives.", "tags": ["Religion", "Catholicism", "France", "World news", "Poland", "Europe"], "title": "The Polish wafer threatens France | Andrew Brown"},{"date": "2010-03-01T09:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "On the Atlantic coast, we've seen all this weather before. Just over ten years ago, the coast of Charente-Maritime was struck by a hurricane and floods, and the mouth of the Gironde estuary burst its banks and filled every little fishing port and the valleys of the hinterland with salt water.This weekend the French weather services gave us plenty of warning. We shut all the shutters, moved the cars out of the way of the Scots pine that we used to love but now mistrust each time the wind soughs in its branches. For the events of December 1999 have left everyone in the area with a fear of the sound of wind.By three in the morning, the buffeting wind and rain had us fully awake, and after an enormous flash in the sky, power was cut and we were groping for torches. At dawn, we ventured out to see the damage. We were lucky, only a few branches down. We dug out the camping gas to make tea and a battery-run radio, to hear Maxime Bono, mayor of La Rochelle, saying that this was even worse than 1999.We live an hour south of La Rochelle, on the Gironde Estuary. The worst hit areas are to the north of us, seaside towns like Aytr\u00e9, Chatelaillon, the Ile de R\u00e9, and north into the Vend\u00e9e, but the Gironde estuary is tidal, and reserves special treatment for those who live on its banks. Leaving our cold house behind, we drove south to check out the house of friends who live most of the year in Berlin. The coastal road was dotted with \"route barr\u00e9e, and route inond\u00e9e\" notices, and barriers had been set up to keep traffic away, but I have a French husband, so we went straight through regardless.High tide had been at 4am, and it was 104 on the French coefficient scale, which means a high spring tide. Coupled with 159kph winds, the villages didn't stand a chance. South from Royan, hugging the coast past Meschers and Talmont, flooded fields and pasture land shone blue in the bright sunlight. The road was littered with debris, tree trunks, planks, plastic bottles, mounds of rushes and old tyres. And while farmers stood and looked dejectedly at their sprouting wheat covered with swathes of jetsam, others were making the most of it, hurriedly loading their cars with free firewood. We kept the car radio tuned to France Bleu La Rochelle, which is the only means of communication for many. One woman was calling in for help from an isolated house in Les Boucholeurs, an isolated fishing village south of La Rochelle. Her daughter was stuck in a flooded house surrounded by water, with a two-month-old baby and no electricity to heat up milk. An appeal also came over for shoes and socks and warm jumpers, for those who had swum out of their homes in the middle of the night.In St Seurin d'Uze, the worst hit on the Gironde coast, no-one has forgotten the 1999 floods, in which a young woman and her child drowned. This time, the church had been flooded but already by 11am the pews stood piled high, and local women leaned on their brooms and looked proudly at the glistening floor tiles.Our friends' house in Barzan stands only a few meters from the harbour side. At the Auberge des Monards, the restaurant owners were hosing down their mud-coated dining-room, all the tables and chairs were out drying in the sun. And we spent the afternoon doing exactly the same: washing, hosing, moving furniture, wringing out bedding and clothes, and hosing all over again. Outside, it was high tide again and the water we kept pushing out of the front door had nowhere to go.Of course, the mockingly sunny Sunday brought onlookers, wanting to find a space to park among the drying chairs and the buckets and the sodden doormats \u2013 causing a minor traffic jam that prevented the fire brigade from doing its urgent job of pumping out water. Irritated, the mayor, Robert Maigre, who had been up since three in the morning doing the rounds of his commune, dragged out barriers to block access to the harbour.\"It's not for lack of asking,\" he said, \"as he pointed to the harbour banks. We've tried at local level, we've tried the departemental conseil g\u00e9neral but no-one's listening. It wouldn't take much, we just need the bank raised by a few centimetres, to keep us out of danger, but with only 250 inhabitants, we're too small. So here we are, ten years on, same thing all over again!\"", "tags": ["France", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Flooding", "Europe"], "title": "Violent storms devastate western France"},{"date": "2010-02-28T13:19:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "France was today struggling to cope with its most violent storm for 10 years, as winds of more than 100mph swept through the country, killing at least 40 people and leaving 1m homes without power. Central and western France were worst hit with gales and torrential rain felling trees and causing flooding. At least seven people drowned in villages in the Vend\u00e9e, while three elderly people and a child were found dead in Charente Maritime around La Rochelle. A man was killed by a falling tree branch in the south-western town of Luchon, where winds reached 90mph. As well as the known casualties, at least five other people were reported missing and dozens others injured. As the storm, known as Xynthia, progressed northwards through France over the weekend, five of the country's 95 departments were placed on red alert for only the second time in the emergency system's history. By this afternoon the alert had been downgraded.The M\u00e9t\u00e9o France weather agency predicted the worst would be over by this afternoon as the storm headed towards Denmark. Xynthia reached France yesterday after lashing parts of southern Europe with heavy winds and rain. In northern Portugal, a 10-year-old boy was killed by a falling tree branch while playing football, and authorities in Spain said two men died when their car was crushed by a falling tree. Tens of thousands of homes were left without electricity. The bad weather conditions caused transport chaos across France. Fallen trees and flooding caused roads and railway lines to be cut off, while some flights in and out of Charles de Gaulle (Roissy) airport, in northern Paris, were cancelled. Authorities at the garden of Versailles reported that 30 trees had fallen overnight. In the worst-hit areas on the western Atlantic coast, helicopters were deployed to rescue residents who had been forced to climb on to their roofs by floods. According to M\u00e9t\u00e9o France, Xynthia is the most violent storm France has seen since December 1999, when high winds caused widespread damage across the country.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Fatal storm sweeps through France"},{"date": "2010-02-01T12:09:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Have you been following that favourite British pastime, enthusiastically reciprocated beyond Calais, of watching the French making idiots of themselves again? It would be fun if it wasn't serious and didn't affect us too.I do not refer to the controversy over a bit of British academic research which suggested the G-spot may be a myth, the condescending French repudiation of which Lizzy Davies wittily reported in last week's Guardian. Crowdsourcing research continues.Nor even the acquittal of Dominque de Villepin in the conspiracy to stitch up Nicolas Sarkozy, his rival (past, present and future) for the French presidency by way of a very French funny-money smear campaign. (Busy Lizzy wrote up that Inspector Clouseau tale too.)No, the serious one is that vote by French MPs last week which would lead to a ban on the wearing of full Islamic covering \u2013 the niqab (face veil) as well as the burka (full body) \u2013 in official public spaces such as hospitals, post offices and buses.It's one of those compromises people think they're being smart to dream up; not a full ban, you understand, but a partial ban.As the Observer reported yesterday (that Lizzy Davies again) it must be seen in the context of France's commitment to secularism (la\u00efcit\u00e9), equality and other abstract concepts for which they are rightly famous.It underpins the notion that the French are all equal, but that people who want to be French must embrace what being French means. A Moroccan who became more devout after moving to France \u2013 surely an understandable response? \u2013 lost her bid for citizenship because she would not discard the niqab.I don't like any form of clothing or kit where one cannot see a person's mouth or eyes, both vital to reading what someone is saying, meaning or feeling at any given moment when you are trying to communicate. You have the voice to go by (as you do on the phone), but it's not always enough.So when Jack Straw expressed Jack-ish doubts about the suitability of the niqab (he asks visitors to his MP's surgery to uncover), I was on his side and added my strong dislike of sunglasses indoors (outdoor too, actually, but at least there they serve a function) to promote the view that this is not about being horrid to Muslims.That's a world away from banning people. You need a much better reason than personal discomfort to do that in a free society. I don't much care for facial piercings or tattoos either. \"So you want to make yourself ugly and unemployable, do you?\" I mutter to myself as I pass those who have them in the street. But we shouldn't ban them either.Yet British public opinion is almost as iffy as the French who have been suffering one of Sarko's public debates on national identity for six months or so. A ComRes poll for the Independent this morning shows that 59% support a ban on the burka in public places such as airports and banks \u2013 with 36% against.The young are more tolerant than the old, the cosmopolitan city-state of London more tolerant than the rest of Britain. No surprise there.Most people oppose a total ban, the sort of thing the BNP advocates, but think that schools should have the right to ban teachers in burkas if so minded \u2013 as the French have banned the wearing of headscarves and a daft court in Italy recently banned religious symbols such as crosses in school.One way or another we've all made mistakes. The Swiss voted the other week to ban minaret-building, not a major problem in Switzerland. Not many women wear the niqab in France \u2013 2,000 on some estimates \u2013 and even fewer the wretched burka.In London you rarely see either outside certain neighbourhoods, rich and poor, where Muslims live in large numbers. When I'm in need of directions in such areas I make it policy always to ask the woman in the burka, a form of affirmative action. Are they pleased? I've no idea, but they sometimes know the way.But we have got muddled over religious symbolism in schools and hospitals. The Christian Legal Centre has issued a statement only this morning confirming that Olive Jones, a teacher in Weston-super-Mare, has been offered her job back.Mrs Jones (54) was sacked by North Somerset council after offering to share her faith with a sick pupil and asking other children in the class to pray for her. The parents objected, but it turned out that no one had told teachers they were sensitive about faith matters.So a mistake was made. But no one investigated the case properly before the sacking either, according to the legal centre. But the good news is surely that a respected teacher got her job back.Live and let live should be the watchword, shouldn't it? And fairness of treatment too. If we want to ban funny kit in banks or at airports on security grounds the ban might be sensibly extended to all funny kit, including sunglasses and exploding underpants.The point is the France is a great brand. It is supposed to stand for something important in human affairs: liberty, equality and fraternity. It does, even though we have just been reminded that the offspring of the French Revolution brutally squeezed savage compensation out of republican Haiti for decades after its black slaves decided to follow Paris's intellectual lead and throw off oppression.Ditto Britain. Secular democracy's enemies, who use our liberal institutions \u2013 courts and benefit systems \u2013 while busily despising us, only thrive when we let ourselves down. We are stronger for being who we say we are, not what they say we are.Tucked away in yesterday's Observer article was a remark by Kheira (her niqab is in her handbag, she explains) who said: \"France is supposed to be a free country. Nowadays women have the right to take their clothes off, but not to put them on.\"Well said, Kheira. I'd like to think Simone de Beauvoir would applaud you, though I'm not confident. What's more you sound quite French and modern too me. Good.", "tags": ["Politics", "UK news", "France", "Islam", "Religion", "World news", "Europe", "French burqa and niqab ban", "Islamic veil"], "title": "France, don't ban the niqab | Michael White"},{"date": "2010-03-25T12:49:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "An unemployed man suspected of hacking into Twitter accounts including those of Barack Obama and Britney Spears could face up to two years in prison after French police and the FBI tracked him down.The man, whose real name has not been released but who allegedly adopted the username Hacker Croll online, was arrested this week by police in Clermont-Ferrand, in the Auvergne, and released last night after questioning by French and US authorities.Last July the FBI discovered that an anonymous hacker, traced to France, had gained access to Twitter as an administrator and taken screengrabs of individuals' accounts. According to the technology website TechCrunch, which came under fire for publishing information sent to it by Croll, he began with Twitter employees and branched out through accounts with Gmail, PayPal, Amazon and others.French police said today they did not believe the hacker, aged 25, had been working for financial profit. \"It was more a challenge,\" said a source.Adeline Champagnat, from the police's cybercrime unit, said the hacker appeared to have been motivated by curiosity. \"He didn't want to make any money out of it,\" she told a French radio station.In an interview last year with the French online magazine Zataz, Croll said his work was solely motivated by a desire to show what he could do. \"I hack therefore I am,\" he said. \"But no question of damaging or destroying. I could easily resell what I have found, but that's out of the question.\"Champagnat said the police believed Croll had used simple but time-intensive techniques to recover passwords of the accounts he targeted, trawling blogs and forums in order to try to guess crucial information.The suspect, who lives in the Puy de D\u00f4me area of central France, has been ordered to stand trial on 24 June in Clermont-Ferrand.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Hacking", "Twitter", "Internet", "Technology", "Europe"], "title": "Twitter hacker suspect held in France"},{"date": "2010-03-22T00:05:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Regions may not seem very significant in a country that has long been highly centralised, but France's regional elections yesterday will be. The ruling UMP held on to Alsace and managed to stop the haemorrhage of support started in the first round of voting a week ago, with a slightly lower abstention rate. It was not the knock-out blow that the Nouvel Observateur predicted in another pun on the president's malleable name (Has Sarko been KOed, it asked). But this was still a stunning victory for the left and reminiscent of the result in 2004. It is not just that this was the last electoral test before the presidentials in 2012. It is also the manner in which his ruling UMP party lost.This election witnessed a significant reversal of the roles played out over the past eight years. The formerly fractious Socialists \u2013 arguing over the deckchairs as the ship has been sinking beneath them \u2013 have rediscovered the art of forming alliances by reaching out in both directions, to the greens and the far left. Meanwhile, the conservative UMP seems to have run out of road, squeezed on the right by a stubbornly resurgent Front National, and in the centre by mass abstentions. The UMP always remained a coalition between centrism and Gaullism, but having consumed the centrist UDF, it has found itself with no one to turn to.None of the ballot papers had the president's name on it, but the recriminations starting today almost certainly will. The president's instinct will be to kick the cat, and dismiss his prime minister, Fran\u00e7ois Fillon. Except that he is no more able to do that than Gordon Brown was to remove Alistair Darling a year ago. The amiable prime minister is more sure-footed and popular than his mercurial president. And Mr Fillon's powers as a negotiator will be needed in full if Mr Sarkozy is to modernise the pension system, the most perilous part of his reform programme. Mr Sarkozy is more likely to cast the Socialists, for example, foreign minister Bernard Kouchner, out of his government.Martine Aubry has been the Socialist heroine of this election. The daughter of Jacques Delors, she has struggled to impose her authority over a party dominated by large political egos. With one wobble (a row with the president of Languedoc-Roussillon, who made an antisemitic allusion to the former prime minister, Laurent Fabius). Ms Aubry held the show together and formed a valuable alliance with Daniel Cohn-Bendit's Europe \u00c9cologie. Having, for the moment, seen off the former Socialist presidential candidate S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royale, and faced with the possible return of Dominique Strauss-Kahn, who may find that running the IMF does not make the strongest springboard for the presidency, Ms Aubry is in a good position to press the case for her own candidacy against Mr Sarkozy in 2012.", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France: Left back problem for Sarkozy | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-03-19T00:05:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "From the Norman Conquest to the Sun's ineffable \"Hop Off You Frogs\" relations between Britain - mainly England - and France have tended to be fraught, not least militarily.The two sides have historically been \"most dear enemies\" and the roll call of battles around the world - Crecy, Agincourt, Blenheim, Quebec, Waterloo - have echoed the wars fought: 100 Years' War, Spanish Succession, Austrian Succession, Seven Years, Napoleonic.Since 1815 however, it's mostly been cooperation: in the Crimea, the First World War, Second World War (overlooking the sinking of the French fleet at Mers-el-Kabir), Suez. The Entente Cordiale has lasted since 1904.But mutual incomprehension can break through: Lord Raglan, a veteran of Waterloo, leading the British army in the Crimea, kept on referring to his French allies as the enemy and British generals in the First World War had problems understanding their French counterparts - as they did the Brits.Sarkozy may be the first French president actively anxious to court les Anglo-Saxons. Addressing Parliament two years ago he called for a \"new brotherhood\".Most antagonism now is fortunately confined to the rugby field. Ominously however there are reports that the old affectionate French term for the English: \"les rosbifs\" has been replaced by a more demotic term they hear too often on English lips: \"les fuck-offs.\"", "tags": ["France", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "Britain and France: a troubled alliance"},{"date": "2010-03-15T12:00:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is coming to terms with its own role in the Holocaust. In his positive review of the newly released film La Rafle, former president Jacques Chirac, who 15 years ago was the first president to recognise French responsibility in the Shoah, wrote this week: \"There is no great nation, no national cohesion, no ability to meet the challenges of the world without memory.\"The film depicts the Vel d'Hiv roundup which occurred on 16-17 July 1942, a massive action by the Nazis involving over 9,000 police in Paris alone. Over 13,000 French Jews, including more than 4,000 children, were arrested over the two-day period and eventually deported to Auschwitz. Those children included 165 from the little school close to my home in rue des Hospitali\u00e8res-Saint-Gervais, in the heart of Jewish Paris. When the summer holidays came to an end, only two pupils on the school roll turned up when term commenced in October. All the schools in my area have memorials to Jewish victims.The slow process of coming to terms with the deportations of the 76,000 French Jews has a long and complex history. Whether it was the Republic's official policy of la\u00efcit\u00e9 (secularism), a state of denial by a proud occupied country who wanted to portray that all France suffered equally or something more sinister, early memorials to the victims rarely, if ever, mention the Jewishness of the victims.Charles de Gaulle's 1960s memorial on Ile de la Cit\u00e9 to all 200,000 French nationals deported to concentration camps has no mention of the word \"Jews\" though both citings from Jean-Paul Sartre and a list of camps features. A recent explanatory board has been erected at the entrance explaining the different people deported by the Nazis during the war, including nearly 50% who were Jewish. This is a ministry of defence memorial and the guard at the memorial proudly told me that the new information board \"explained all the badges\", a reference to the badges used on the prisoners' uniforms in the camps to denote whether someone was Jewish, homosexual, Roma or socialist \u2013 a belated acceptance by L'Etat La\u00efque (secular state) that people were persecuted on the basis of their ethnic, ideological or sexual orientation and not simply as victims of the occupation.So it is no surprise with the lack of references at the ministry of defence site that a separate Shoah museum has been developed 500 metres from the original memorial. The centre is part monument and part museum with western Europe's largest Holocaust documentation and research facility.Inside the courtyard of the centre are the names of the 76,000 victims on walls, restoring some semblance of their individual identity, which starkly contrasts to the De Gaulle memorial. Airport-style security into the memorial and centre is a sad and poignant reminder that antisemitism still exists. The street next to the museum has been in recent years renamed All\u00e9es des Justes (naming the recognised Righteous Gentiles who saved Jews); it is important to remember that there were people in France who saved Jews, who did not carry out orders.Since 1995, much has been done by the state to explain and educate about the Shoah and memorialise the victims. France is a proud country and the Occupation and the role of French state institutions including the police and SNCF has been kept quiet until the last decade. In the end, La Rafle is more than a film, it is a statement that France can face her past.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Holocaust", "Second world war", "Judaism", "Religion", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France faces up to its Holocaust role | Alexander Goldberg"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is one of those countries that we think we know. This assumption is, in part, what shields so many of her more secret places from invasion. And when I say we, I don't mean just we British. The French, too, when they plan their long and frequent holidays, tend to stick to the well-trodden axes of pleasure: the Alps for their skiing, Brittany or Normandy for their spas, Provence for their long lunches by the pool . . .These are all corners well-served by the French state's magnificent infrastructure but there are other places, most of them off the beaten tracks of the TGV and the autoroutes \u2013 and where I live in the C\u00e9vennes mountains is one of them.Part of me is still wondering why, at the age of 43, I suddenly decided to uproot from a comfortable life in central Paris and move to a part of France so wild and so remote that even my best-educated Parisian friends, who had no difficulty rattling off the obscurest capital cities, were unable to locate it on the map. They knew that the Loz\u00e8re, the part of the C\u00e9vennes where I would henceforth be paying my taxes, was the most sparsely populated d\u00e9partment in France. And they knew that the c\u00e9venols \u2013 those taciturn, heavily defended peasants who feature in Raymond Depardon's fashionable and rather condescending documentary on rural France, La vie moderne \u2013 are mostly Protestant. For the French, a nation of lapsed Catholic pleasure-seekers, the word Protestant evokes hard work, austerity and mirthlessness. It is therefore of little surprise to me that, two years on, none of my Parisian friends has paid a visit.For Parisians, the C\u00e9vennes is still the place described by the great 19th-century French historian Jules Michelet: \"The C\u00e9vennes offer rock, nothing but rock, razor-sharp shale. You feel the struggle of man, his stubborn and prodigious labour in the face of nature.\"And it is true that everywhere you go in the area where I live, La Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, you see evidence of this struggle. You see it written on the landscape: in the dry stone walls and the terraces carved out of the steep hillsides; in the beautiful sweet chestnut groves that still march over so many of those terraces; even in my own roof, made of shale, each lauze carefully chosen and laid like fish scales in ascending order of size, from ridge to eaves. Michelet was right: it is a place of hardship. The Protestants of the C\u00e9vennes were brutally persecuted by the French Catholic monarchy for more than 120 years.Today it is still a place of rigorous husbandry. The nearest supermarket to where I live is half an hour away on winding roads, so every one of my neighbours has a vegetable garden hewn from their hillside; many have beehives on the furthest reaches of their land. Everyone has a log pile, beautifully stacked outside their house \u2013 the measure of their industry and their readiness for whatever nature can throw at them.Because in this part of the world, nature can suddenly turn nasty. Most of the year the climate is Mediterranean, softened a little in summer by the altitude. Winters are relatively short and mild, with the occasional dusting of snow on the summits. So at first it all seems relatively gentle, particularly to a Brit used to the annual tussle with seasonally adjusted depression. Cypress and green oak thrive on the south-facing slopes, and you can find morels in April, chanterelles in June and c\u00e8pes in October. At first I could not understand either the Parisian reluctance or indeed my neighbours' dogged preparedness for the worst. But in my first autumn here, I experienced an \u00e9pisode c\u00e9venol: when cold air from the Atlantic meets warm air from the Mediterranean, leading to dark cloud for days on end, apocalyptic rain, flash floods, broken bridges, dead sheep, restive children, fretful fathers and unhinged mothers. When it ended, and the sun came out, I found myself once again in the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen, one peopled with individuals who gave the impression that they felt lucky to be alive, today, and in this particular part of the world.You come to these hills \u2013 like the writer's writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, did \u2013 to think and to walk. Looking out over the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise from the breathtaking crest road that was carved through the Cevennes by Louis XIV's dragoons in their pitiless campaign against the Protestants, you will see little evidence of any change to the landscape since those times. Nothing but tiers of wooded hills fading to the distance with tiny villages huddled around their precious springs and linked by thousands of footpaths, still trodden by smallholders with their goats. This is not a place for people looking for distraction or amusement. It is, and always has been, a place of exile, a place to run away to.I once asked a neighbour of mine, who was giving me a lift to the village in his van, if he still noticed the beauty of the landscape he was brought up in. Without taking his eyes off the winding road, he smiled.\"Nope,\" he said. \"I drive over the mountain at sunrise every day and I see the mist in the valley but I don't look at it any more. If I ever went away, though, that's when I'd miss it, and I wouldn't be able to be without it.\"People here are not smug, but they know that they have something precious and they carry that knowledge like a secret worth having.In his essay Spirit of Place, Lawrence Durrell said, \"all landscapes ask the same question in the same whisper: I am watching you \u2013 are you watching yourself in me?\" It was without a doubt the landscape of the C\u00e9vennes that drew me. What it was that I saw there of myself I'm not entirely sure, but my father was raised by a Scottish mother near Stirling. When we went on holiday to Provence when I was a child, he would soon become bored by the luxuriant heat that so enchanted my mother, and together we would strike for the purple hills we could see in the distance. The low-lying mountains that you see if you look west from vineyards of the Rh\u00f4ne are a frontier. Beyond them lies another landscape, of craggy hills, mossy woodlands, vast moors, rushing streams and stone bridges. These are close to the Scottish landscapes of my father's youth. His fantasy, you might say, and not mine and yet the Gardon river in my valley flows towards the Mediterranean, not the North Sea. Put simply, it is perhaps as close as France gets to Scotland \u2013 or as close as I can get to my roots without betraying my self.\u2022 Places to stay: The Hotel Bourgade in Saint Andr\u00e9 de Valborgne (+33 4 66 566932), has doubles from \u20ac55. In the village of Les Plantiers, Auberge du Valgrand (+33 4 66 839011) has doubles from \u20ac65. There are no hotels in the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise but G\u00eetes de France has a selection of self-catering cottage in the area. Search on the website for Sainte Etienne Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, Moissac Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise or Sainte Croix Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise. Ryanair flies to N\u00eemes from Liverpool and Luton and to Montpellier from Bristol and Leeds-Bradford. Easyjet flies to Montpellier from Luton and Gatwick. London to Montpellier by rail with Rail Europe (08448 484 064) starts from \u00a3104.50 return. Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber). To order a copy for \u00a310.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6847", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "France", "Provence holidays", "Walking holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe"], "title": "Hidden France: the C\u00e9vennes mountains"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is one of those countries that we think we know. This assumption is, in part, what shields so many of her more secret places from invasion. And when I say we, I don't mean just we British. The French, too, when they plan their long and frequent holidays, tend to stick to the well-trodden axes of pleasure: the Alps for their skiing, Brittany or Normandy for their spas, Provence for their long lunches by the pool . . .These are all corners well-served by the French state's magnificent infrastructure but there are other places, most of them off the beaten tracks of the TGV and the autoroutes \u2013 and where I live in the C\u00e9vennes mountains is one of them.Part of me is still wondering why, at the age of 43, I suddenly decided to uproot from a comfortable life in central Paris and move to a part of France so wild and so remote that even my best-educated Parisian friends, who had no difficulty rattling off the obscurest capital cities, were unable to locate it on the map. They knew that the Loz\u00e8re, the part of the C\u00e9vennes where I would henceforth be paying my taxes, was the most sparsely populated d\u00e9partment in France. And they knew that the c\u00e9venols \u2013 those taciturn, heavily defended peasants who feature in Raymond Depardon's fashionable and rather condescending documentary on rural France, La vie moderne \u2013 are mostly Protestant. For the French, a nation of lapsed Catholic pleasure-seekers, the word Protestant evokes hard work, austerity and mirthlessness. It is therefore of little surprise to me that, two years on, none of my Parisian friends has paid a visit.For Parisians, the C\u00e9vennes is still the place described by the great 19th-century French historian Jules Michelet: \"The C\u00e9vennes offer rock, nothing but rock, razor-sharp shale. You feel the struggle of man, his stubborn and prodigious labour in the face of nature.\"And it is true that everywhere you go in the area where I live, La Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, you see evidence of this struggle. You see it written on the landscape: in the dry stone walls and the terraces carved out of the steep hillsides; in the beautiful sweet chestnut groves that still march over so many of those terraces; even in my own roof, made of shale, each lauze carefully chosen and laid like fish scales in ascending order of size, from ridge to eaves. Michelet was right: it is a place of hardship. The Protestants of the C\u00e9vennes were brutally persecuted by the French Catholic monarchy for more than 120 years.Today it is still a place of rigorous husbandry. The nearest supermarket to where I live is half an hour away on winding roads, so every one of my neighbours has a vegetable garden hewn from their hillside; many have beehives on the furthest reaches of their land. Everyone has a log pile, beautifully stacked outside their house \u2013 the measure of their industry and their readiness for whatever nature can throw at them.Because in this part of the world, nature can suddenly turn nasty. Most of the year the climate is Mediterranean, softened a little in summer by the altitude. Winters are relatively short and mild, with the occasional dusting of snow on the summits. So at first it all seems relatively gentle, particularly to a Brit used to the annual tussle with seasonally adjusted depression. Cypress and green oak thrive on the south-facing slopes, and you can find morels in April, chanterelles in June and c\u00e8pes in October. At first I could not understand either the Parisian reluctance or indeed my neighbours' dogged preparedness for the worst. But in my first autumn here, I experienced an \u00e9pisode c\u00e9venol: when cold air from the Atlantic meets warm air from the Mediterranean, leading to dark cloud for days on end, apocalyptic rain, flash floods, broken bridges, dead sheep, restive children, fretful fathers and unhinged mothers. When it ended, and the sun came out, I found myself once again in the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen, one peopled with individuals who gave the impression that they felt lucky to be alive, today, and in this particular part of the world.You come to these hills \u2013 like the writer's writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, did \u2013 to think and to walk. Looking out over the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise from the breathtaking crest road that was carved through the Cevennes by Louis XIV's dragoons in their pitiless campaign against the Protestants, you will see little evidence of any change to the landscape since those times. Nothing but tiers of wooded hills fading to the distance with tiny villages huddled around their precious springs and linked by thousands of footpaths, still trodden by smallholders with their goats. This is not a place for people looking for distraction or amusement. It is, and always has been, a place of exile, a place to run away to.I once asked a neighbour of mine, who was giving me a lift to the village in his van, if he still noticed the beauty of the landscape he was brought up in. Without taking his eyes off the winding road, he smiled.\"Nope,\" he said. \"I drive over the mountain at sunrise every day and I see the mist in the valley but I don't look at it any more. If I ever went away, though, that's when I'd miss it, and I wouldn't be able to be without it.\"People here are not smug, but they know that they have something precious and they carry that knowledge like a secret worth having.In his essay Spirit of Place, Lawrence Durrell said, \"all landscapes ask the same question in the same whisper: I am watching you \u2013 are you watching yourself in me?\" It was without a doubt the landscape of the C\u00e9vennes that drew me. What it was that I saw there of myself I'm not entirely sure, but my father was raised by a Scottish mother near Stirling. When we went on holiday to Provence when I was a child, he would soon become bored by the luxuriant heat that so enchanted my mother, and together we would strike for the purple hills we could see in the distance. The low-lying mountains that you see if you look west from vineyards of the Rh\u00f4ne are a frontier. Beyond them lies another landscape, of craggy hills, mossy woodlands, vast moors, rushing streams and stone bridges. These are close to the Scottish landscapes of my father's youth. His fantasy, you might say, and not mine and yet the Gardon river in my valley flows towards the Mediterranean, not the North Sea. Put simply, it is perhaps as close as France gets to Scotland \u2013 or as close as I can get to my roots without betraying my self.\u2022 Places to stay: The Hotel Bourgade in Saint Andr\u00e9 de Valborgne (+33 4 66 566932), has doubles from \u20ac55. In the village of Les Plantiers, Auberge du Valgrand (+33 4 66 839011) has doubles from \u20ac65. There are no hotels in the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise but G\u00eetes de France has a selection of self-catering cottage in the area. Search on the website for Sainte Etienne Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, Moissac Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise or Sainte Croix Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise. Ryanair flies to N\u00eemes from Liverpool and Luton and to Montpellier from Bristol and Leeds-Bradford. Easyjet flies to Montpellier from Luton and Gatwick. London to Montpellier by rail with Rail Europe (08448 484 064) starts from \u00a3104.50 return. Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber). To order a copy for \u00a310.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6847", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "France", "Provence holidays", "Walking holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe"], "title": "Hidden France: the C\u00e9vennes mountains"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:06:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "The spur for my first-ever trip round France was Jacques Tati's classic comedy Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot, filmed in 1953 on the beach in St Marc sur Mer in the Loire-Atlantique.I'd seen the film as a child and the other-worldliness of this little resort and its fictional inhabitants made a deep impression on me. The world conjured up by Tati was so very different from Britain: hot, elegant, timeless and languid. Now, 40 years on, I was determined to see the place.This region of western France is often overlooked, and I was unsure what I might find. In any case, visiting iconic film locations can often prove a disappointing experience. It was late and pitch black by the time I arrived at Hulot's holiday base, the H\u00f4tel de la Plage, via a train from Paris to Nantes and a 15km taxi ride; and I went to bed full of trepidation for what daylight might reveal.I needn't have worried. When I threw open the curtains the next morning it was like stepping into the movie. There was that gusty little beach: there was the sleepy promenade framed by the distant cliffs on which Hulot set off the fireworks in one of the film's most memorable scenes; and there was the tiny spit jutting out into the ocean along which the elderly couple strolled each night after dinner.Apart from a commemorative bronze sculpture of Hulot himself on the esplanade, placed there in 1999, everything looked just as Tati had captured it over 50 years before.With its rocky coves, fabulous swimming, relaxing cliff-top walks and cosy restaurants, my three days in and around St Marc were a delight. On my second evening I even visited a travelling circus, and was rewarded by a memorable evening of flying acrobats, prancing horses, and a troupe of performing heifers, the whole evening suffused with the nostalgic aromas of damp canvas, sawdust and trodden grass.The German submarine base at nearby Saint-Nazaire offers a tour round a second-world-war U-Boat. The submarine pens and the base itself were so strongly fortified that they can never be eradicated \u2013 any attempt to blow them up would take half of the town with it. Near the base there's also a fabulous ocean liner exhibition, with son et lumiere effects, including an entire section ripped out of the luxury liner Le France, which was built here. Kids will love it.But in essence it's the off-the-beaten-track feel of this area that makes it so attractive. Less brooding than nearby Brittany, yet unspoilt, picturesque and with bags of charm. During my summer of discovery I travelled all round la belle France, but for me this region beat the lot.\u2022 H\u00f4tel de la Plage (+33 2 4091 9901), doubles from \u20ac85 (room only)Michael Simkins is an actor and author. His latest book is Detour de France (Ebury Press, \u00a37.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Beach holidays", "Family holidays", "Film", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Happy vacances: Jacques Tati's France"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is one of those countries that we think we know. This assumption is, in part, what shields so many of her more secret places from invasion. And when I say we, I don't mean just we British. The French, too, when they plan their long and frequent holidays, tend to stick to the well-trodden axes of pleasure: the Alps for their skiing, Brittany or Normandy for their spas, Provence for their long lunches by the pool . . .These are all corners well-served by the French state's magnificent infrastructure but there are other places, most of them off the beaten tracks of the TGV and the autoroutes \u2013 and where I live in the C\u00e9vennes mountains is one of them.Part of me is still wondering why, at the age of 43, I suddenly decided to uproot from a comfortable life in central Paris and move to a part of France so wild and so remote that even my best-educated Parisian friends, who had no difficulty rattling off the obscurest capital cities, were unable to locate it on the map. They knew that the Loz\u00e8re, the part of the C\u00e9vennes where I would henceforth be paying my taxes, was the most sparsely populated d\u00e9partment in France. And they knew that the c\u00e9venols \u2013 those taciturn, heavily defended peasants who feature in Raymond Depardon's fashionable and rather condescending documentary on rural France, La vie moderne \u2013 are mostly Protestant. For the French, a nation of lapsed Catholic pleasure-seekers, the word Protestant evokes hard work, austerity and mirthlessness. It is therefore of little surprise to me that, two years on, none of my Parisian friends has paid a visit.For Parisians, the C\u00e9vennes is still the place described by the great 19th-century French historian Jules Michelet: \"The C\u00e9vennes offer rock, nothing but rock, razor-sharp shale. You feel the struggle of man, his stubborn and prodigious labour in the face of nature.\"And it is true that everywhere you go in the area where I live, La Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, you see evidence of this struggle. You see it written on the landscape: in the dry stone walls and the terraces carved out of the steep hillsides; in the beautiful sweet chestnut groves that still march over so many of those terraces; even in my own roof, made of shale, each lauze carefully chosen and laid like fish scales in ascending order of size, from ridge to eaves. Michelet was right: it is a place of hardship. The Protestants of the C\u00e9vennes were brutally persecuted by the French Catholic monarchy for more than 120 years.Today it is still a place of rigorous husbandry. The nearest supermarket to where I live is half an hour away on winding roads, so every one of my neighbours has a vegetable garden hewn from their hillside; many have beehives on the furthest reaches of their land. Everyone has a log pile, beautifully stacked outside their house \u2013 the measure of their industry and their readiness for whatever nature can throw at them.Because in this part of the world, nature can suddenly turn nasty. Most of the year the climate is Mediterranean, softened a little in summer by the altitude. Winters are relatively short and mild, with the occasional dusting of snow on the summits. So at first it all seems relatively gentle, particularly to a Brit used to the annual tussle with seasonally adjusted depression. Cypress and green oak thrive on the south-facing slopes, and you can find morels in April, chanterelles in June and c\u00e8pes in October. At first I could not understand either the Parisian reluctance or indeed my neighbours' dogged preparedness for the worst. But in my first autumn here, I experienced an \u00e9pisode c\u00e9venol: when cold air from the Atlantic meets warm air from the Mediterranean, leading to dark cloud for days on end, apocalyptic rain, flash floods, broken bridges, dead sheep, restive children, fretful fathers and unhinged mothers. When it ended, and the sun came out, I found myself once again in the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen, one peopled with individuals who gave the impression that they felt lucky to be alive, today, and in this particular part of the world.You come to these hills \u2013 like the writer's writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, did \u2013 to think and to walk. Looking out over the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise from the breathtaking crest road that was carved through the Cevennes by Louis XIV's dragoons in their pitiless campaign against the Protestants, you will see little evidence of any change to the landscape since those times. Nothing but tiers of wooded hills fading to the distance with tiny villages huddled around their precious springs and linked by thousands of footpaths, still trodden by smallholders with their goats. This is not a place for people looking for distraction or amusement. It is, and always has been, a place of exile, a place to run away to.I once asked a neighbour of mine, who was giving me a lift to the village in his van, if he still noticed the beauty of the landscape he was brought up in. Without taking his eyes off the winding road, he smiled.\"Nope,\" he said. \"I drive over the mountain at sunrise every day and I see the mist in the valley but I don't look at it any more. If I ever went away, though, that's when I'd miss it, and I wouldn't be able to be without it.\"People here are not smug, but they know that they have something precious and they carry that knowledge like a secret worth having.In his essay Spirit of Place, Lawrence Durrell said, \"all landscapes ask the same question in the same whisper: I am watching you \u2013 are you watching yourself in me?\" It was without a doubt the landscape of the C\u00e9vennes that drew me. What it was that I saw there of myself I'm not entirely sure, but my father was raised by a Scottish mother near Stirling. When we went on holiday to Provence when I was a child, he would soon become bored by the luxuriant heat that so enchanted my mother, and together we would strike for the purple hills we could see in the distance. The low-lying mountains that you see if you look west from vineyards of the Rh\u00f4ne are a frontier. Beyond them lies another landscape, of craggy hills, mossy woodlands, vast moors, rushing streams and stone bridges. These are close to the Scottish landscapes of my father's youth. His fantasy, you might say, and not mine and yet the Gardon river in my valley flows towards the Mediterranean, not the North Sea. Put simply, it is perhaps as close as France gets to Scotland \u2013 or as close as I can get to my roots without betraying my self.\u2022 Places to stay: The Hotel Bourgade in Saint Andr\u00e9 de Valborgne (+33 4 66 566932), has doubles from \u20ac55. In the village of Les Plantiers, Auberge du Valgrand (+33 4 66 839011) has doubles from \u20ac65. There are no hotels in the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise but G\u00eetes de France has a selection of self-catering cottage in the area. Search on the website for Sainte Etienne Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, Moissac Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise or Sainte Croix Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise. Ryanair flies to N\u00eemes from Liverpool and Luton and to Montpellier from Bristol and Leeds-Bradford. Easyjet flies to Montpellier from Luton and Gatwick. London to Montpellier by rail with Rail Europe (08448 484 064) starts from \u00a3104.50 return. Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber). To order a copy for \u00a310.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6847", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "France", "Provence holidays", "Walking holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe"], "title": "Hidden France: the C\u00e9vennes mountains"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:06:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "The spur for my first-ever trip round France was Jacques Tati's classic comedy Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot, filmed in 1953 on the beach in St Marc sur Mer in the Loire-Atlantique.I'd seen the film as a child and the other-worldliness of this little resort and its fictional inhabitants made a deep impression on me. The world conjured up by Tati was so very different from Britain: hot, elegant, timeless and languid. Now, 40 years on, I was determined to see the place.This region of western France is often overlooked, and I was unsure what I might find. In any case, visiting iconic film locations can often prove a disappointing experience. It was late and pitch black by the time I arrived at Hulot's holiday base, the H\u00f4tel de la Plage, via a train from Paris to Nantes and a 15km taxi ride; and I went to bed full of trepidation for what daylight might reveal.I needn't have worried. When I threw open the curtains the next morning it was like stepping into the movie. There was that gusty little beach: there was the sleepy promenade framed by the distant cliffs on which Hulot set off the fireworks in one of the film's most memorable scenes; and there was the tiny spit jutting out into the ocean along which the elderly couple strolled each night after dinner.Apart from a commemorative bronze sculpture of Hulot himself on the esplanade, placed there in 1999, everything looked just as Tati had captured it over 50 years before.With its rocky coves, fabulous swimming, relaxing cliff-top walks and cosy restaurants, my three days in and around St Marc were a delight. On my second evening I even visited a travelling circus, and was rewarded by a memorable evening of flying acrobats, prancing horses, and a troupe of performing heifers, the whole evening suffused with the nostalgic aromas of damp canvas, sawdust and trodden grass.The German submarine base at nearby Saint-Nazaire offers a tour round a second-world-war U-Boat. The submarine pens and the base itself were so strongly fortified that they can never be eradicated \u2013 any attempt to blow them up would take half of the town with it. Near the base there's also a fabulous ocean liner exhibition, with son et lumiere effects, including an entire section ripped out of the luxury liner Le France, which was built here. Kids will love it.But in essence it's the off-the-beaten-track feel of this area that makes it so attractive. Less brooding than nearby Brittany, yet unspoilt, picturesque and with bags of charm. During my summer of discovery I travelled all round la belle France, but for me this region beat the lot.\u2022 H\u00f4tel de la Plage (+33 2 4091 9901), doubles from \u20ac85 (room only)Michael Simkins is an actor and author. His latest book is Detour de France (Ebury Press, \u00a37.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Beach holidays", "Family holidays", "Film", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Happy vacances: Jacques Tati's France"},{"date": "2010-06-18T10:00:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Together with Bastille Day and the anniversaries of the end of the two world wars, today is a seminal date for France, reflected in the visit of President Nicolas Sarkozy to London for anniversary ceremonies and a plethora of celebrations on both sides of the Channel. It also raises intriguing questions about the Franco-British relationship, Europe, transatlantic links \u2013 and the legacy of the greatest French leader of the 20th century.Charles de Gaulle's call on the BBC from London on this day in 1940 to his country not to give up the fight against Germany marked a historic moment, which salvaged French pride in subsequent years despite the way France had crumbled in the face of the Nazi assault. Far fewer people rallied to the Resistance, at least in its earlier stages, than was suggested by the subsequent myth that the country came together against the invaders with whom the P\u00e9tain administration signed a humiliating armistice on 22 June.The broadcast was heard by few people in France, and the BBC did not keep a recording of it. He was virtually unknown in London and the British government, which had initially vetoed the speech, sought other more prominent French figures to lead the resistance to Adolf Hitler.Still, the speech was an essential moment, enabling De Gaulle to claim that the French state had not surrendered but, improbable as it might appear, had moved to London. It also reflected his pragmatism; he was sure Hitler would eventually be defeated and he wanted to ensure that France came out of the war on the side of the winners as an independent nation that would not be subjected to military occupation, as Franklin D Roosevelt planned.As I wrote my new biography of De Gaulle, published to coincide with the anniversary this week, the question keeps coming up of how this tall, gawky soldier who had been made a junior minister only a couple of weeks earlier and had now, in effect, staged a rebellion against the government of his country with a handful of followers, became the embodiment of France.Today, 42 years after he founded the Fifth Republic, De Gaulle is \u2013 like it or not \u2013 the template against which French leaders are judged. His conception of the executive president, directly elected by the people at large, endures. His quasi-religious devotion to the strong, centralised state is evident in the difficulty that Sarkozy, like some of his predecessors, has in introducing reforms seen as threatening the authority of that state and the benefits it confers on those who work under its umbrella.In Europe, De Gaulle's recognition of the fundamental importance of Franco-German rapprochement after three wars remains key to French policy even when, as at present, the air between Paris and Berlin is far from warm.Further afield, his suspicion of American designs on the world, nurtured by his scratchy wartime relations with Roosevelt and then bolstered by his opposition to the war in Vietnam and his insistence on Europe asserting its independence of Washington, continues to find strong echoes in France, even if Sarkozy has overturned his decision to pull French forces out of Nato's integrated military structure. His vision of France acting as a bridge with what used to be called the \"third world\" is still evident in attempts by Paris to foster a Mediterranean community and the global cultural role the country sees for itself.As for Franco-British relations, the order of the day is smiles all round as Sarkozy visits De Gaulle's wartime headquarters beside St James's Park and Resistance veterans make the Eurostar trip before returning to Paris for ceremonies there in the evening. The recurrent, sometimes violent wartime rows between De Gaulle and Winston Churchill will be shrugged off as being the way great men sometimes act under pressure. The general's subsequent dismissal of Britain as a US poodle and his 1963 veto on Harold Macmillan's bid to join the Common Market will not be mentioned \u2013 though the Eurosceptics in David Cameron's party may regard De Gaulle as a saviour in disguise.As it has turned out, the European Union based on the primacy of the nation states which De Gaulle preached is close to the policies followed by London since Margaret Thatcher. On the French side, Sarkozy may be moving towards a relationship with Washington not too far from that Cameron will craft. So there are points of convergence, while the tough economic measures George Osborne will unveil in his budget have certain similarities with the harsh economic medicine implemented in France as De Gaulle set up the Fifth Republic.But this should not lead one to ignore the basic reservations De Gaulle always had about the country across the narrow sea. This dated back to the Fashoda Incident, in which Britain bested France in Africa during his boyhood. In the 1930s, he denounced French politicians for following London's lead too closely in dealing with Hitler. During the war, he \u2013 rightly \u2013 concluded that once the United States had entered the conflict, London would always side with Washington. That remained his leitmotif during his decade as president of the Fifth Republic, and gave historic resonance to the opposition of the Chirac administration to the war in Iraq.This was not so much crude Anglophobia (or Americanophobia) but the result of De Gaulle's core belief in the greatness of France, with which he associated himself in a visceral personal manner. Starting on 18 June 1940, he performed a magisterial conjuring trick in asserting France's stature (and his own) against all the odds. He did so again after returning to power in 1958. The trick wore off as he aged and as his jeremiads against US policy carried less and less weight and his outbursts such as his cry of \"Vive le Qu\u00e9bec Libre\" appeared more and more as an effort by an old man to regain his former glory and influence.Forty years after De Gaulle's death, his successors are stuck with his legacy, but exercising it in the changed world is a mammoth task. His shadow lies over France, for good or ill. That is unlikely to change for one simple reason. When he claimed that he and his country were as one, De Gaulle was not wrong. France's strengths, weaknesses and contradictions were all contained in him. The Gaullist heritage is, thus, intimately bound up with the nature of France. Neither is likely to change.", "tags": ["Second world war", "France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Winston Churchill", "UK news", "World news", "Charles de Gaulle", "Europe"], "title": "De Gaulle's shadow still lies over France | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is one of those countries that we think we know. This assumption is, in part, what shields so many of her more secret places from invasion. And when I say we, I don't mean just we British. The French, too, when they plan their long and frequent holidays, tend to stick to the well-trodden axes of pleasure: the Alps for their skiing, Brittany or Normandy for their spas, Provence for their long lunches by the pool . . .These are all corners well-served by the French state's magnificent infrastructure but there are other places, most of them off the beaten tracks of the TGV and the autoroutes \u2013 and where I live in the C\u00e9vennes mountains is one of them.Part of me is still wondering why, at the age of 43, I suddenly decided to uproot from a comfortable life in central Paris and move to a part of France so wild and so remote that even my best-educated Parisian friends, who had no difficulty rattling off the obscurest capital cities, were unable to locate it on the map. They knew that the Loz\u00e8re, the part of the C\u00e9vennes where I would henceforth be paying my taxes, was the most sparsely populated d\u00e9partment in France. And they knew that the c\u00e9venols \u2013 those taciturn, heavily defended peasants who feature in Raymond Depardon's fashionable and rather condescending documentary on rural France, La vie moderne \u2013 are mostly Protestant. For the French, a nation of lapsed Catholic pleasure-seekers, the word Protestant evokes hard work, austerity and mirthlessness. It is therefore of little surprise to me that, two years on, none of my Parisian friends has paid a visit.For Parisians, the C\u00e9vennes is still the place described by the great 19th-century French historian Jules Michelet: \"The C\u00e9vennes offer rock, nothing but rock, razor-sharp shale. You feel the struggle of man, his stubborn and prodigious labour in the face of nature.\"And it is true that everywhere you go in the area where I live, La Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, you see evidence of this struggle. You see it written on the landscape: in the dry stone walls and the terraces carved out of the steep hillsides; in the beautiful sweet chestnut groves that still march over so many of those terraces; even in my own roof, made of shale, each lauze carefully chosen and laid like fish scales in ascending order of size, from ridge to eaves. Michelet was right: it is a place of hardship. The Protestants of the C\u00e9vennes were brutally persecuted by the French Catholic monarchy for more than 120 years.Today it is still a place of rigorous husbandry. The nearest supermarket to where I live is half an hour away on winding roads, so every one of my neighbours has a vegetable garden hewn from their hillside; many have beehives on the furthest reaches of their land. Everyone has a log pile, beautifully stacked outside their house \u2013 the measure of their industry and their readiness for whatever nature can throw at them.Because in this part of the world, nature can suddenly turn nasty. Most of the year the climate is Mediterranean, softened a little in summer by the altitude. Winters are relatively short and mild, with the occasional dusting of snow on the summits. So at first it all seems relatively gentle, particularly to a Brit used to the annual tussle with seasonally adjusted depression. Cypress and green oak thrive on the south-facing slopes, and you can find morels in April, chanterelles in June and c\u00e8pes in October. At first I could not understand either the Parisian reluctance or indeed my neighbours' dogged preparedness for the worst. But in my first autumn here, I experienced an \u00e9pisode c\u00e9venol: when cold air from the Atlantic meets warm air from the Mediterranean, leading to dark cloud for days on end, apocalyptic rain, flash floods, broken bridges, dead sheep, restive children, fretful fathers and unhinged mothers. When it ended, and the sun came out, I found myself once again in the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen, one peopled with individuals who gave the impression that they felt lucky to be alive, today, and in this particular part of the world.You come to these hills \u2013 like the writer's writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, did \u2013 to think and to walk. Looking out over the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise from the breathtaking crest road that was carved through the Cevennes by Louis XIV's dragoons in their pitiless campaign against the Protestants, you will see little evidence of any change to the landscape since those times. Nothing but tiers of wooded hills fading to the distance with tiny villages huddled around their precious springs and linked by thousands of footpaths, still trodden by smallholders with their goats. This is not a place for people looking for distraction or amusement. It is, and always has been, a place of exile, a place to run away to.I once asked a neighbour of mine, who was giving me a lift to the village in his van, if he still noticed the beauty of the landscape he was brought up in. Without taking his eyes off the winding road, he smiled.\"Nope,\" he said. \"I drive over the mountain at sunrise every day and I see the mist in the valley but I don't look at it any more. If I ever went away, though, that's when I'd miss it, and I wouldn't be able to be without it.\"People here are not smug, but they know that they have something precious and they carry that knowledge like a secret worth having.In his essay Spirit of Place, Lawrence Durrell said, \"all landscapes ask the same question in the same whisper: I am watching you \u2013 are you watching yourself in me?\" It was without a doubt the landscape of the C\u00e9vennes that drew me. What it was that I saw there of myself I'm not entirely sure, but my father was raised by a Scottish mother near Stirling. When we went on holiday to Provence when I was a child, he would soon become bored by the luxuriant heat that so enchanted my mother, and together we would strike for the purple hills we could see in the distance. The low-lying mountains that you see if you look west from vineyards of the Rh\u00f4ne are a frontier. Beyond them lies another landscape, of craggy hills, mossy woodlands, vast moors, rushing streams and stone bridges. These are close to the Scottish landscapes of my father's youth. His fantasy, you might say, and not mine and yet the Gardon river in my valley flows towards the Mediterranean, not the North Sea. Put simply, it is perhaps as close as France gets to Scotland \u2013 or as close as I can get to my roots without betraying my self.\u2022 Places to stay: The Hotel Bourgade in Saint Andr\u00e9 de Valborgne (+33 4 66 566932), has doubles from \u20ac55. In the village of Les Plantiers, Auberge du Valgrand (+33 4 66 839011) has doubles from \u20ac65. There are no hotels in the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise but G\u00eetes de France has a selection of self-catering cottage in the area. Search on the website for Sainte Etienne Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, Moissac Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise or Sainte Croix Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise. Ryanair flies to N\u00eemes from Liverpool and Luton and to Montpellier from Bristol and Leeds-Bradford. Easyjet flies to Montpellier from Luton and Gatwick. London to Montpellier by rail with Rail Europe (08448 484 064) starts from \u00a3104.50 return. Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber). To order a copy for \u00a310.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6847", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "France", "Provence holidays", "Walking holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe"], "title": "Hidden France: the C\u00e9vennes mountains"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:06:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "The spur for my first-ever trip round France was Jacques Tati's classic comedy Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot, filmed in 1953 on the beach in St Marc sur Mer in the Loire-Atlantique.I'd seen the film as a child and the other-worldliness of this little resort and its fictional inhabitants made a deep impression on me. The world conjured up by Tati was so very different from Britain: hot, elegant, timeless and languid. Now, 40 years on, I was determined to see the place.This region of western France is often overlooked, and I was unsure what I might find. In any case, visiting iconic film locations can often prove a disappointing experience. It was late and pitch black by the time I arrived at Hulot's holiday base, the H\u00f4tel de la Plage, via a train from Paris to Nantes and a 15km taxi ride; and I went to bed full of trepidation for what daylight might reveal.I needn't have worried. When I threw open the curtains the next morning it was like stepping into the movie. There was that gusty little beach: there was the sleepy promenade framed by the distant cliffs on which Hulot set off the fireworks in one of the film's most memorable scenes; and there was the tiny spit jutting out into the ocean along which the elderly couple strolled each night after dinner.Apart from a commemorative bronze sculpture of Hulot himself on the esplanade, placed there in 1999, everything looked just as Tati had captured it over 50 years before.With its rocky coves, fabulous swimming, relaxing cliff-top walks and cosy restaurants, my three days in and around St Marc were a delight. On my second evening I even visited a travelling circus, and was rewarded by a memorable evening of flying acrobats, prancing horses, and a troupe of performing heifers, the whole evening suffused with the nostalgic aromas of damp canvas, sawdust and trodden grass.The German submarine base at nearby Saint-Nazaire offers a tour round a second-world-war U-Boat. The submarine pens and the base itself were so strongly fortified that they can never be eradicated \u2013 any attempt to blow them up would take half of the town with it. Near the base there's also a fabulous ocean liner exhibition, with son et lumiere effects, including an entire section ripped out of the luxury liner Le France, which was built here. Kids will love it.But in essence it's the off-the-beaten-track feel of this area that makes it so attractive. Less brooding than nearby Brittany, yet unspoilt, picturesque and with bags of charm. During my summer of discovery I travelled all round la belle France, but for me this region beat the lot.\u2022 H\u00f4tel de la Plage (+33 2 4091 9901), doubles from \u20ac85 (room only)Michael Simkins is an actor and author. His latest book is Detour de France (Ebury Press, \u00a37.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Beach holidays", "Family holidays", "Film", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Happy vacances: Jacques Tati's France"},{"date": "2010-06-18T10:00:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Together with Bastille Day and the anniversaries of the end of the two world wars, today is a seminal date for France, reflected in the visit of President Nicolas Sarkozy to London for anniversary ceremonies and a plethora of celebrations on both sides of the Channel. It also raises intriguing questions about the Franco-British relationship, Europe, transatlantic links \u2013 and the legacy of the greatest French leader of the 20th century.Charles de Gaulle's call on the BBC from London on this day in 1940 to his country not to give up the fight against Germany marked a historic moment, which salvaged French pride in subsequent years despite the way France had crumbled in the face of the Nazi assault. Far fewer people rallied to the Resistance, at least in its earlier stages, than was suggested by the subsequent myth that the country came together against the invaders with whom the P\u00e9tain administration signed a humiliating armistice on 22 June.The broadcast was heard by few people in France, and the BBC did not keep a recording of it. He was virtually unknown in London and the British government, which had initially vetoed the speech, sought other more prominent French figures to lead the resistance to Adolf Hitler.Still, the speech was an essential moment, enabling De Gaulle to claim that the French state had not surrendered but, improbable as it might appear, had moved to London. It also reflected his pragmatism; he was sure Hitler would eventually be defeated and he wanted to ensure that France came out of the war on the side of the winners as an independent nation that would not be subjected to military occupation, as Franklin D Roosevelt planned.As I wrote my new biography of De Gaulle, published to coincide with the anniversary this week, the question keeps coming up of how this tall, gawky soldier who had been made a junior minister only a couple of weeks earlier and had now, in effect, staged a rebellion against the government of his country with a handful of followers, became the embodiment of France.Today, 42 years after he founded the Fifth Republic, De Gaulle is \u2013 like it or not \u2013 the template against which French leaders are judged. His conception of the executive president, directly elected by the people at large, endures. His quasi-religious devotion to the strong, centralised state is evident in the difficulty that Sarkozy, like some of his predecessors, has in introducing reforms seen as threatening the authority of that state and the benefits it confers on those who work under its umbrella.In Europe, De Gaulle's recognition of the fundamental importance of Franco-German rapprochement after three wars remains key to French policy even when, as at present, the air between Paris and Berlin is far from warm.Further afield, his suspicion of American designs on the world, nurtured by his scratchy wartime relations with Roosevelt and then bolstered by his opposition to the war in Vietnam and his insistence on Europe asserting its independence of Washington, continues to find strong echoes in France, even if Sarkozy has overturned his decision to pull French forces out of Nato's integrated military structure. His vision of France acting as a bridge with what used to be called the \"third world\" is still evident in attempts by Paris to foster a Mediterranean community and the global cultural role the country sees for itself.As for Franco-British relations, the order of the day is smiles all round as Sarkozy visits De Gaulle's wartime headquarters beside St James's Park and Resistance veterans make the Eurostar trip before returning to Paris for ceremonies there in the evening. The recurrent, sometimes violent wartime rows between De Gaulle and Winston Churchill will be shrugged off as being the way great men sometimes act under pressure. The general's subsequent dismissal of Britain as a US poodle and his 1963 veto on Harold Macmillan's bid to join the Common Market will not be mentioned \u2013 though the Eurosceptics in David Cameron's party may regard De Gaulle as a saviour in disguise.As it has turned out, the European Union based on the primacy of the nation states which De Gaulle preached is close to the policies followed by London since Margaret Thatcher. On the French side, Sarkozy may be moving towards a relationship with Washington not too far from that Cameron will craft. So there are points of convergence, while the tough economic measures George Osborne will unveil in his budget have certain similarities with the harsh economic medicine implemented in France as De Gaulle set up the Fifth Republic.But this should not lead one to ignore the basic reservations De Gaulle always had about the country across the narrow sea. This dated back to the Fashoda Incident, in which Britain bested France in Africa during his boyhood. In the 1930s, he denounced French politicians for following London's lead too closely in dealing with Hitler. During the war, he \u2013 rightly \u2013 concluded that once the United States had entered the conflict, London would always side with Washington. That remained his leitmotif during his decade as president of the Fifth Republic, and gave historic resonance to the opposition of the Chirac administration to the war in Iraq.This was not so much crude Anglophobia (or Americanophobia) but the result of De Gaulle's core belief in the greatness of France, with which he associated himself in a visceral personal manner. Starting on 18 June 1940, he performed a magisterial conjuring trick in asserting France's stature (and his own) against all the odds. He did so again after returning to power in 1958. The trick wore off as he aged and as his jeremiads against US policy carried less and less weight and his outbursts such as his cry of \"Vive le Qu\u00e9bec Libre\" appeared more and more as an effort by an old man to regain his former glory and influence.Forty years after De Gaulle's death, his successors are stuck with his legacy, but exercising it in the changed world is a mammoth task. His shadow lies over France, for good or ill. That is unlikely to change for one simple reason. When he claimed that he and his country were as one, De Gaulle was not wrong. France's strengths, weaknesses and contradictions were all contained in him. The Gaullist heritage is, thus, intimately bound up with the nature of France. Neither is likely to change.", "tags": ["Second world war", "France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Winston Churchill", "UK news", "World news", "Charles de Gaulle", "Europe"], "title": "De Gaulle's shadow still lies over France | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2010-06-16T13:56:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French government today sparked anger from unions and the Socialist opposition when it announced its intention to raise the legal age of retirement.The move comes as part of sweeping reforms to a pensions system deemed inadequate for the modern age.In a blow to a much-cherished exception fran\u00e7aise of the social landscape, the French will no longer be able to retire from the age of 60. They will instead be expected to work until they are 62 by 2018, the employment minister, Eric Woerth, said.Defending the move as an \"inevitable\" consequence of demographic changes, Woerth cited a list of other countries, including Britain, whose governments were faced with a similar dilemma.\"The ageing of the French population cannot be got round. We have to face up to it,\" he said. \"All our partners in Europe have done this by working for longer. It is not possible for us to not join this movement.\"As well as a progressive raising of the retirement age, beginning next July, the reform also envisages increasing the number of work years needed in order to claim a full pension, from 40.5 years now to at least 41.5 in 2020.An array of tax hikes, including a 1% surcharge on the top income tax bracket, also aims to raise revenue for a pensions system forecast to register a \u20ac32bn (\u00a326.6bn) deficit this year.\"It is fair to believe that those with more resources than others should contribute more than others to the financing of our pensions,\" Woerth said.The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who has singled out pensions as the most important area of reform required before his term in office ends in 2012, insisted the changes responded to the needs of \"justice and equality\".The rightwing president needs to show Brussels he is serious about taking steps to cut France's oversized budget deficit, which currently stands at 7.5% of GDP.Hoewever, his reforms have been denounced as anything but fair by the leftwing opposition, which has vowed to fight tooth and nail to maintain 60 as the legal age of retirement.Brought in by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand in the 1980s, the age is viewed by Socialist party stalwarts as a symbol of left-led social progress.\"I am very angry and very sad because the end of retirement at 60 ... is the end of an era,\" Jean-Luc M\u00e9lenchon , the head of the Parti de Gauche, told French radio. \"It's the end of a way of living, and it's the end of happy days.\"Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the former leader of the Socialist party, said the reform was \"the most unfair\" of any to have been pushed through by Sarkozy.\"[He] wanted, above all, to send a sign to the markets and to our European partners and he chose to make the poor and those who started work early pay,\" he said.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France unveils plans to raise retirement age"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is one of those countries that we think we know. This assumption is, in part, what shields so many of her more secret places from invasion. And when I say we, I don't mean just we British. The French, too, when they plan their long and frequent holidays, tend to stick to the well-trodden axes of pleasure: the Alps for their skiing, Brittany or Normandy for their spas, Provence for their long lunches by the pool . . .These are all corners well-served by the French state's magnificent infrastructure but there are other places, most of them off the beaten tracks of the TGV and the autoroutes \u2013 and where I live in the C\u00e9vennes mountains is one of them.Part of me is still wondering why, at the age of 43, I suddenly decided to uproot from a comfortable life in central Paris and move to a part of France so wild and so remote that even my best-educated Parisian friends, who had no difficulty rattling off the obscurest capital cities, were unable to locate it on the map. They knew that the Loz\u00e8re, the part of the C\u00e9vennes where I would henceforth be paying my taxes, was the most sparsely populated d\u00e9partment in France. And they knew that the c\u00e9venols \u2013 those taciturn, heavily defended peasants who feature in Raymond Depardon's fashionable and rather condescending documentary on rural France, La vie moderne \u2013 are mostly Protestant. For the French, a nation of lapsed Catholic pleasure-seekers, the word Protestant evokes hard work, austerity and mirthlessness. It is therefore of little surprise to me that, two years on, none of my Parisian friends has paid a visit.For Parisians, the C\u00e9vennes is still the place described by the great 19th-century French historian Jules Michelet: \"The C\u00e9vennes offer rock, nothing but rock, razor-sharp shale. You feel the struggle of man, his stubborn and prodigious labour in the face of nature.\"And it is true that everywhere you go in the area where I live, La Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, you see evidence of this struggle. You see it written on the landscape: in the dry stone walls and the terraces carved out of the steep hillsides; in the beautiful sweet chestnut groves that still march over so many of those terraces; even in my own roof, made of shale, each lauze carefully chosen and laid like fish scales in ascending order of size, from ridge to eaves. Michelet was right: it is a place of hardship. The Protestants of the C\u00e9vennes were brutally persecuted by the French Catholic monarchy for more than 120 years.Today it is still a place of rigorous husbandry. The nearest supermarket to where I live is half an hour away on winding roads, so every one of my neighbours has a vegetable garden hewn from their hillside; many have beehives on the furthest reaches of their land. Everyone has a log pile, beautifully stacked outside their house \u2013 the measure of their industry and their readiness for whatever nature can throw at them.Because in this part of the world, nature can suddenly turn nasty. Most of the year the climate is Mediterranean, softened a little in summer by the altitude. Winters are relatively short and mild, with the occasional dusting of snow on the summits. So at first it all seems relatively gentle, particularly to a Brit used to the annual tussle with seasonally adjusted depression. Cypress and green oak thrive on the south-facing slopes, and you can find morels in April, chanterelles in June and c\u00e8pes in October. At first I could not understand either the Parisian reluctance or indeed my neighbours' dogged preparedness for the worst. But in my first autumn here, I experienced an \u00e9pisode c\u00e9venol: when cold air from the Atlantic meets warm air from the Mediterranean, leading to dark cloud for days on end, apocalyptic rain, flash floods, broken bridges, dead sheep, restive children, fretful fathers and unhinged mothers. When it ended, and the sun came out, I found myself once again in the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen, one peopled with individuals who gave the impression that they felt lucky to be alive, today, and in this particular part of the world.You come to these hills \u2013 like the writer's writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, did \u2013 to think and to walk. Looking out over the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise from the breathtaking crest road that was carved through the Cevennes by Louis XIV's dragoons in their pitiless campaign against the Protestants, you will see little evidence of any change to the landscape since those times. Nothing but tiers of wooded hills fading to the distance with tiny villages huddled around their precious springs and linked by thousands of footpaths, still trodden by smallholders with their goats. This is not a place for people looking for distraction or amusement. It is, and always has been, a place of exile, a place to run away to.I once asked a neighbour of mine, who was giving me a lift to the village in his van, if he still noticed the beauty of the landscape he was brought up in. Without taking his eyes off the winding road, he smiled.\"Nope,\" he said. \"I drive over the mountain at sunrise every day and I see the mist in the valley but I don't look at it any more. If I ever went away, though, that's when I'd miss it, and I wouldn't be able to be without it.\"People here are not smug, but they know that they have something precious and they carry that knowledge like a secret worth having.In his essay Spirit of Place, Lawrence Durrell said, \"all landscapes ask the same question in the same whisper: I am watching you \u2013 are you watching yourself in me?\" It was without a doubt the landscape of the C\u00e9vennes that drew me. What it was that I saw there of myself I'm not entirely sure, but my father was raised by a Scottish mother near Stirling. When we went on holiday to Provence when I was a child, he would soon become bored by the luxuriant heat that so enchanted my mother, and together we would strike for the purple hills we could see in the distance. The low-lying mountains that you see if you look west from vineyards of the Rh\u00f4ne are a frontier. Beyond them lies another landscape, of craggy hills, mossy woodlands, vast moors, rushing streams and stone bridges. These are close to the Scottish landscapes of my father's youth. His fantasy, you might say, and not mine and yet the Gardon river in my valley flows towards the Mediterranean, not the North Sea. Put simply, it is perhaps as close as France gets to Scotland \u2013 or as close as I can get to my roots without betraying my self.\u2022 Places to stay: The Hotel Bourgade in Saint Andr\u00e9 de Valborgne (+33 4 66 566932), has doubles from \u20ac55. In the village of Les Plantiers, Auberge du Valgrand (+33 4 66 839011) has doubles from \u20ac65. There are no hotels in the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise but G\u00eetes de France has a selection of self-catering cottage in the area. Search on the website for Sainte Etienne Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, Moissac Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise or Sainte Croix Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise. Ryanair flies to N\u00eemes from Liverpool and Luton and to Montpellier from Bristol and Leeds-Bradford. Easyjet flies to Montpellier from Luton and Gatwick. London to Montpellier by rail with Rail Europe (08448 484 064) starts from \u00a3104.50 return. Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber). To order a copy for \u00a310.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6847", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "France", "Provence holidays", "Walking holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe"], "title": "Hidden France: the C\u00e9vennes mountains"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:06:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "The spur for my first-ever trip round France was Jacques Tati's classic comedy Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot, filmed in 1953 on the beach in St Marc sur Mer in the Loire-Atlantique.I'd seen the film as a child and the other-worldliness of this little resort and its fictional inhabitants made a deep impression on me. The world conjured up by Tati was so very different from Britain: hot, elegant, timeless and languid. Now, 40 years on, I was determined to see the place.This region of western France is often overlooked, and I was unsure what I might find. In any case, visiting iconic film locations can often prove a disappointing experience. It was late and pitch black by the time I arrived at Hulot's holiday base, the H\u00f4tel de la Plage, via a train from Paris to Nantes and a 15km taxi ride; and I went to bed full of trepidation for what daylight might reveal.I needn't have worried. When I threw open the curtains the next morning it was like stepping into the movie. There was that gusty little beach: there was the sleepy promenade framed by the distant cliffs on which Hulot set off the fireworks in one of the film's most memorable scenes; and there was the tiny spit jutting out into the ocean along which the elderly couple strolled each night after dinner.Apart from a commemorative bronze sculpture of Hulot himself on the esplanade, placed there in 1999, everything looked just as Tati had captured it over 50 years before.With its rocky coves, fabulous swimming, relaxing cliff-top walks and cosy restaurants, my three days in and around St Marc were a delight. On my second evening I even visited a travelling circus, and was rewarded by a memorable evening of flying acrobats, prancing horses, and a troupe of performing heifers, the whole evening suffused with the nostalgic aromas of damp canvas, sawdust and trodden grass.The German submarine base at nearby Saint-Nazaire offers a tour round a second-world-war U-Boat. The submarine pens and the base itself were so strongly fortified that they can never be eradicated \u2013 any attempt to blow them up would take half of the town with it. Near the base there's also a fabulous ocean liner exhibition, with son et lumiere effects, including an entire section ripped out of the luxury liner Le France, which was built here. Kids will love it.But in essence it's the off-the-beaten-track feel of this area that makes it so attractive. Less brooding than nearby Brittany, yet unspoilt, picturesque and with bags of charm. During my summer of discovery I travelled all round la belle France, but for me this region beat the lot.\u2022 H\u00f4tel de la Plage (+33 2 4091 9901), doubles from \u20ac85 (room only)Michael Simkins is an actor and author. His latest book is Detour de France (Ebury Press, \u00a37.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Beach holidays", "Family holidays", "Film", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Happy vacances: Jacques Tati's France"},{"date": "2010-06-18T10:00:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Together with Bastille Day and the anniversaries of the end of the two world wars, today is a seminal date for France, reflected in the visit of President Nicolas Sarkozy to London for anniversary ceremonies and a plethora of celebrations on both sides of the Channel. It also raises intriguing questions about the Franco-British relationship, Europe, transatlantic links \u2013 and the legacy of the greatest French leader of the 20th century.Charles de Gaulle's call on the BBC from London on this day in 1940 to his country not to give up the fight against Germany marked a historic moment, which salvaged French pride in subsequent years despite the way France had crumbled in the face of the Nazi assault. Far fewer people rallied to the Resistance, at least in its earlier stages, than was suggested by the subsequent myth that the country came together against the invaders with whom the P\u00e9tain administration signed a humiliating armistice on 22 June.The broadcast was heard by few people in France, and the BBC did not keep a recording of it. He was virtually unknown in London and the British government, which had initially vetoed the speech, sought other more prominent French figures to lead the resistance to Adolf Hitler.Still, the speech was an essential moment, enabling De Gaulle to claim that the French state had not surrendered but, improbable as it might appear, had moved to London. It also reflected his pragmatism; he was sure Hitler would eventually be defeated and he wanted to ensure that France came out of the war on the side of the winners as an independent nation that would not be subjected to military occupation, as Franklin D Roosevelt planned.As I wrote my new biography of De Gaulle, published to coincide with the anniversary this week, the question keeps coming up of how this tall, gawky soldier who had been made a junior minister only a couple of weeks earlier and had now, in effect, staged a rebellion against the government of his country with a handful of followers, became the embodiment of France.Today, 42 years after he founded the Fifth Republic, De Gaulle is \u2013 like it or not \u2013 the template against which French leaders are judged. His conception of the executive president, directly elected by the people at large, endures. His quasi-religious devotion to the strong, centralised state is evident in the difficulty that Sarkozy, like some of his predecessors, has in introducing reforms seen as threatening the authority of that state and the benefits it confers on those who work under its umbrella.In Europe, De Gaulle's recognition of the fundamental importance of Franco-German rapprochement after three wars remains key to French policy even when, as at present, the air between Paris and Berlin is far from warm.Further afield, his suspicion of American designs on the world, nurtured by his scratchy wartime relations with Roosevelt and then bolstered by his opposition to the war in Vietnam and his insistence on Europe asserting its independence of Washington, continues to find strong echoes in France, even if Sarkozy has overturned his decision to pull French forces out of Nato's integrated military structure. His vision of France acting as a bridge with what used to be called the \"third world\" is still evident in attempts by Paris to foster a Mediterranean community and the global cultural role the country sees for itself.As for Franco-British relations, the order of the day is smiles all round as Sarkozy visits De Gaulle's wartime headquarters beside St James's Park and Resistance veterans make the Eurostar trip before returning to Paris for ceremonies there in the evening. The recurrent, sometimes violent wartime rows between De Gaulle and Winston Churchill will be shrugged off as being the way great men sometimes act under pressure. The general's subsequent dismissal of Britain as a US poodle and his 1963 veto on Harold Macmillan's bid to join the Common Market will not be mentioned \u2013 though the Eurosceptics in David Cameron's party may regard De Gaulle as a saviour in disguise.As it has turned out, the European Union based on the primacy of the nation states which De Gaulle preached is close to the policies followed by London since Margaret Thatcher. On the French side, Sarkozy may be moving towards a relationship with Washington not too far from that Cameron will craft. So there are points of convergence, while the tough economic measures George Osborne will unveil in his budget have certain similarities with the harsh economic medicine implemented in France as De Gaulle set up the Fifth Republic.But this should not lead one to ignore the basic reservations De Gaulle always had about the country across the narrow sea. This dated back to the Fashoda Incident, in which Britain bested France in Africa during his boyhood. In the 1930s, he denounced French politicians for following London's lead too closely in dealing with Hitler. During the war, he \u2013 rightly \u2013 concluded that once the United States had entered the conflict, London would always side with Washington. That remained his leitmotif during his decade as president of the Fifth Republic, and gave historic resonance to the opposition of the Chirac administration to the war in Iraq.This was not so much crude Anglophobia (or Americanophobia) but the result of De Gaulle's core belief in the greatness of France, with which he associated himself in a visceral personal manner. Starting on 18 June 1940, he performed a magisterial conjuring trick in asserting France's stature (and his own) against all the odds. He did so again after returning to power in 1958. The trick wore off as he aged and as his jeremiads against US policy carried less and less weight and his outbursts such as his cry of \"Vive le Qu\u00e9bec Libre\" appeared more and more as an effort by an old man to regain his former glory and influence.Forty years after De Gaulle's death, his successors are stuck with his legacy, but exercising it in the changed world is a mammoth task. His shadow lies over France, for good or ill. That is unlikely to change for one simple reason. When he claimed that he and his country were as one, De Gaulle was not wrong. France's strengths, weaknesses and contradictions were all contained in him. The Gaullist heritage is, thus, intimately bound up with the nature of France. Neither is likely to change.", "tags": ["Second world war", "France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Winston Churchill", "UK news", "World news", "Charles de Gaulle", "Europe"], "title": "De Gaulle's shadow still lies over France | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2010-06-16T13:56:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French government today sparked anger from unions and the Socialist opposition when it announced its intention to raise the legal age of retirement.The move comes as part of sweeping reforms to a pensions system deemed inadequate for the modern age.In a blow to a much-cherished exception fran\u00e7aise of the social landscape, the French will no longer be able to retire from the age of 60. They will instead be expected to work until they are 62 by 2018, the employment minister, Eric Woerth, said.Defending the move as an \"inevitable\" consequence of demographic changes, Woerth cited a list of other countries, including Britain, whose governments were faced with a similar dilemma.\"The ageing of the French population cannot be got round. We have to face up to it,\" he said. \"All our partners in Europe have done this by working for longer. It is not possible for us to not join this movement.\"As well as a progressive raising of the retirement age, beginning next July, the reform also envisages increasing the number of work years needed in order to claim a full pension, from 40.5 years now to at least 41.5 in 2020.An array of tax hikes, including a 1% surcharge on the top income tax bracket, also aims to raise revenue for a pensions system forecast to register a \u20ac32bn (\u00a326.6bn) deficit this year.\"It is fair to believe that those with more resources than others should contribute more than others to the financing of our pensions,\" Woerth said.The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who has singled out pensions as the most important area of reform required before his term in office ends in 2012, insisted the changes responded to the needs of \"justice and equality\".The rightwing president needs to show Brussels he is serious about taking steps to cut France's oversized budget deficit, which currently stands at 7.5% of GDP.Hoewever, his reforms have been denounced as anything but fair by the leftwing opposition, which has vowed to fight tooth and nail to maintain 60 as the legal age of retirement.Brought in by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand in the 1980s, the age is viewed by Socialist party stalwarts as a symbol of left-led social progress.\"I am very angry and very sad because the end of retirement at 60 ... is the end of an era,\" Jean-Luc M\u00e9lenchon , the head of the Parti de Gauche, told French radio. \"It's the end of a way of living, and it's the end of happy days.\"Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the former leader of the Socialist party, said the reform was \"the most unfair\" of any to have been pushed through by Sarkozy.\"[He] wanted, above all, to send a sign to the markets and to our European partners and he chose to make the poor and those who started work early pay,\" he said.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France unveils plans to raise retirement age"},{"date": "2010-06-08T10:07:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is the most expensive place to take a holiday according to research published today, despite the public perception that it is cheaper to visit than the Nordic countries, Dubai and Japan.A survey by flight comparison website Skyscanner compared the cost of paying for various typical items \u2013 including a coffee, a beer, a meal, accommodation in a Marriott hotel and hiring a car from Avis \u2013 in 30 different countries and found that the cheapest place to buy these was Cyprus, followed by mainland Greece and South Africa. If the cost of a flight was then included Cyprus and Greece were still the cheapest, followed by Morocco.But UK consumers were way off the mark when it came to predicting which countries were the cheapest or most expensive. Although the 1,500 people questioned for the survey were correct in ranking India, Thailand and Morocco among the least expensive, they also thought Mexico would be the fourth most competitively priced destination whereas it is actually in the top 10 most expensive, both excluding and including flights.Flights added considerably to the cost of holidays in far flung countries: although New Zealand was in the bottom 10 excluding flights, it moved up to eighth most expensive when travel was included.But perhaps most surprising was Dubai, which, perhaps because of its millionaires' playground image, was considered to be the fifth most expensive. In reality, however, it was the 12th most expensive excluding flights and dropped to 14th including flights, just behind Italy, Iceland and America.Barry Smith, director and co-founder of Skyscanner, said: \"We decided to undertake this research in response to consumer demand for greater price transparency on their trips abroad. Whilst the results are to some extent subjective, they do provide a broad guideline of total holiday cost.\"It is extremely interesting to see how many destinations challenge common perceptions and I am more than a little surprised to see France, a destination only a stone's throw away, emerge as the most expensive overall holiday.\"These figures show it is vital to consider all the hidden extras when planning a holiday, particularly that of the flight. Consumers shouldn't assume because a destination is known to be cheap when you get there, that the total cost won't escalate considerably once the cost of flights are added, making it a far pricier choice than some of the short-haul alternatives.\"", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Family finances", "Money", "Travel", "UK news", "France holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Denmark holidays", "Cyprus holidays"], "title": "France is 'most expensive holiday destination'"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is one of those countries that we think we know. This assumption is, in part, what shields so many of her more secret places from invasion. And when I say we, I don't mean just we British. The French, too, when they plan their long and frequent holidays, tend to stick to the well-trodden axes of pleasure: the Alps for their skiing, Brittany or Normandy for their spas, Provence for their long lunches by the pool . . .These are all corners well-served by the French state's magnificent infrastructure but there are other places, most of them off the beaten tracks of the TGV and the autoroutes \u2013 and where I live in the C\u00e9vennes mountains is one of them.Part of me is still wondering why, at the age of 43, I suddenly decided to uproot from a comfortable life in central Paris and move to a part of France so wild and so remote that even my best-educated Parisian friends, who had no difficulty rattling off the obscurest capital cities, were unable to locate it on the map. They knew that the Loz\u00e8re, the part of the C\u00e9vennes where I would henceforth be paying my taxes, was the most sparsely populated d\u00e9partment in France. And they knew that the c\u00e9venols \u2013 those taciturn, heavily defended peasants who feature in Raymond Depardon's fashionable and rather condescending documentary on rural France, La vie moderne \u2013 are mostly Protestant. For the French, a nation of lapsed Catholic pleasure-seekers, the word Protestant evokes hard work, austerity and mirthlessness. It is therefore of little surprise to me that, two years on, none of my Parisian friends has paid a visit.For Parisians, the C\u00e9vennes is still the place described by the great 19th-century French historian Jules Michelet: \"The C\u00e9vennes offer rock, nothing but rock, razor-sharp shale. You feel the struggle of man, his stubborn and prodigious labour in the face of nature.\"And it is true that everywhere you go in the area where I live, La Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, you see evidence of this struggle. You see it written on the landscape: in the dry stone walls and the terraces carved out of the steep hillsides; in the beautiful sweet chestnut groves that still march over so many of those terraces; even in my own roof, made of shale, each lauze carefully chosen and laid like fish scales in ascending order of size, from ridge to eaves. Michelet was right: it is a place of hardship. The Protestants of the C\u00e9vennes were brutally persecuted by the French Catholic monarchy for more than 120 years.Today it is still a place of rigorous husbandry. The nearest supermarket to where I live is half an hour away on winding roads, so every one of my neighbours has a vegetable garden hewn from their hillside; many have beehives on the furthest reaches of their land. Everyone has a log pile, beautifully stacked outside their house \u2013 the measure of their industry and their readiness for whatever nature can throw at them.Because in this part of the world, nature can suddenly turn nasty. Most of the year the climate is Mediterranean, softened a little in summer by the altitude. Winters are relatively short and mild, with the occasional dusting of snow on the summits. So at first it all seems relatively gentle, particularly to a Brit used to the annual tussle with seasonally adjusted depression. Cypress and green oak thrive on the south-facing slopes, and you can find morels in April, chanterelles in June and c\u00e8pes in October. At first I could not understand either the Parisian reluctance or indeed my neighbours' dogged preparedness for the worst. But in my first autumn here, I experienced an \u00e9pisode c\u00e9venol: when cold air from the Atlantic meets warm air from the Mediterranean, leading to dark cloud for days on end, apocalyptic rain, flash floods, broken bridges, dead sheep, restive children, fretful fathers and unhinged mothers. When it ended, and the sun came out, I found myself once again in the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen, one peopled with individuals who gave the impression that they felt lucky to be alive, today, and in this particular part of the world.You come to these hills \u2013 like the writer's writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, did \u2013 to think and to walk. Looking out over the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise from the breathtaking crest road that was carved through the Cevennes by Louis XIV's dragoons in their pitiless campaign against the Protestants, you will see little evidence of any change to the landscape since those times. Nothing but tiers of wooded hills fading to the distance with tiny villages huddled around their precious springs and linked by thousands of footpaths, still trodden by smallholders with their goats. This is not a place for people looking for distraction or amusement. It is, and always has been, a place of exile, a place to run away to.I once asked a neighbour of mine, who was giving me a lift to the village in his van, if he still noticed the beauty of the landscape he was brought up in. Without taking his eyes off the winding road, he smiled.\"Nope,\" he said. \"I drive over the mountain at sunrise every day and I see the mist in the valley but I don't look at it any more. If I ever went away, though, that's when I'd miss it, and I wouldn't be able to be without it.\"People here are not smug, but they know that they have something precious and they carry that knowledge like a secret worth having.In his essay Spirit of Place, Lawrence Durrell said, \"all landscapes ask the same question in the same whisper: I am watching you \u2013 are you watching yourself in me?\" It was without a doubt the landscape of the C\u00e9vennes that drew me. What it was that I saw there of myself I'm not entirely sure, but my father was raised by a Scottish mother near Stirling. When we went on holiday to Provence when I was a child, he would soon become bored by the luxuriant heat that so enchanted my mother, and together we would strike for the purple hills we could see in the distance. The low-lying mountains that you see if you look west from vineyards of the Rh\u00f4ne are a frontier. Beyond them lies another landscape, of craggy hills, mossy woodlands, vast moors, rushing streams and stone bridges. These are close to the Scottish landscapes of my father's youth. His fantasy, you might say, and not mine and yet the Gardon river in my valley flows towards the Mediterranean, not the North Sea. Put simply, it is perhaps as close as France gets to Scotland \u2013 or as close as I can get to my roots without betraying my self.\u2022 Places to stay: The Hotel Bourgade in Saint Andr\u00e9 de Valborgne (+33 4 66 566932), has doubles from \u20ac55. In the village of Les Plantiers, Auberge du Valgrand (+33 4 66 839011) has doubles from \u20ac65. There are no hotels in the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise but G\u00eetes de France has a selection of self-catering cottage in the area. Search on the website for Sainte Etienne Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, Moissac Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise or Sainte Croix Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise. Ryanair flies to N\u00eemes from Liverpool and Luton and to Montpellier from Bristol and Leeds-Bradford. Easyjet flies to Montpellier from Luton and Gatwick. London to Montpellier by rail with Rail Europe (08448 484 064) starts from \u00a3104.50 return. Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber). To order a copy for \u00a310.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6847", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "France", "Provence holidays", "Walking holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe"], "title": "Hidden France: the C\u00e9vennes mountains"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:06:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "The spur for my first-ever trip round France was Jacques Tati's classic comedy Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot, filmed in 1953 on the beach in St Marc sur Mer in the Loire-Atlantique.I'd seen the film as a child and the other-worldliness of this little resort and its fictional inhabitants made a deep impression on me. The world conjured up by Tati was so very different from Britain: hot, elegant, timeless and languid. Now, 40 years on, I was determined to see the place.This region of western France is often overlooked, and I was unsure what I might find. In any case, visiting iconic film locations can often prove a disappointing experience. It was late and pitch black by the time I arrived at Hulot's holiday base, the H\u00f4tel de la Plage, via a train from Paris to Nantes and a 15km taxi ride; and I went to bed full of trepidation for what daylight might reveal.I needn't have worried. When I threw open the curtains the next morning it was like stepping into the movie. There was that gusty little beach: there was the sleepy promenade framed by the distant cliffs on which Hulot set off the fireworks in one of the film's most memorable scenes; and there was the tiny spit jutting out into the ocean along which the elderly couple strolled each night after dinner.Apart from a commemorative bronze sculpture of Hulot himself on the esplanade, placed there in 1999, everything looked just as Tati had captured it over 50 years before.With its rocky coves, fabulous swimming, relaxing cliff-top walks and cosy restaurants, my three days in and around St Marc were a delight. On my second evening I even visited a travelling circus, and was rewarded by a memorable evening of flying acrobats, prancing horses, and a troupe of performing heifers, the whole evening suffused with the nostalgic aromas of damp canvas, sawdust and trodden grass.The German submarine base at nearby Saint-Nazaire offers a tour round a second-world-war U-Boat. The submarine pens and the base itself were so strongly fortified that they can never be eradicated \u2013 any attempt to blow them up would take half of the town with it. Near the base there's also a fabulous ocean liner exhibition, with son et lumiere effects, including an entire section ripped out of the luxury liner Le France, which was built here. Kids will love it.But in essence it's the off-the-beaten-track feel of this area that makes it so attractive. Less brooding than nearby Brittany, yet unspoilt, picturesque and with bags of charm. During my summer of discovery I travelled all round la belle France, but for me this region beat the lot.\u2022 H\u00f4tel de la Plage (+33 2 4091 9901), doubles from \u20ac85 (room only)Michael Simkins is an actor and author. His latest book is Detour de France (Ebury Press, \u00a37.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Beach holidays", "Family holidays", "Film", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Happy vacances: Jacques Tati's France"},{"date": "2010-06-18T10:00:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Together with Bastille Day and the anniversaries of the end of the two world wars, today is a seminal date for France, reflected in the visit of President Nicolas Sarkozy to London for anniversary ceremonies and a plethora of celebrations on both sides of the Channel. It also raises intriguing questions about the Franco-British relationship, Europe, transatlantic links \u2013 and the legacy of the greatest French leader of the 20th century.Charles de Gaulle's call on the BBC from London on this day in 1940 to his country not to give up the fight against Germany marked a historic moment, which salvaged French pride in subsequent years despite the way France had crumbled in the face of the Nazi assault. Far fewer people rallied to the Resistance, at least in its earlier stages, than was suggested by the subsequent myth that the country came together against the invaders with whom the P\u00e9tain administration signed a humiliating armistice on 22 June.The broadcast was heard by few people in France, and the BBC did not keep a recording of it. He was virtually unknown in London and the British government, which had initially vetoed the speech, sought other more prominent French figures to lead the resistance to Adolf Hitler.Still, the speech was an essential moment, enabling De Gaulle to claim that the French state had not surrendered but, improbable as it might appear, had moved to London. It also reflected his pragmatism; he was sure Hitler would eventually be defeated and he wanted to ensure that France came out of the war on the side of the winners as an independent nation that would not be subjected to military occupation, as Franklin D Roosevelt planned.As I wrote my new biography of De Gaulle, published to coincide with the anniversary this week, the question keeps coming up of how this tall, gawky soldier who had been made a junior minister only a couple of weeks earlier and had now, in effect, staged a rebellion against the government of his country with a handful of followers, became the embodiment of France.Today, 42 years after he founded the Fifth Republic, De Gaulle is \u2013 like it or not \u2013 the template against which French leaders are judged. His conception of the executive president, directly elected by the people at large, endures. His quasi-religious devotion to the strong, centralised state is evident in the difficulty that Sarkozy, like some of his predecessors, has in introducing reforms seen as threatening the authority of that state and the benefits it confers on those who work under its umbrella.In Europe, De Gaulle's recognition of the fundamental importance of Franco-German rapprochement after three wars remains key to French policy even when, as at present, the air between Paris and Berlin is far from warm.Further afield, his suspicion of American designs on the world, nurtured by his scratchy wartime relations with Roosevelt and then bolstered by his opposition to the war in Vietnam and his insistence on Europe asserting its independence of Washington, continues to find strong echoes in France, even if Sarkozy has overturned his decision to pull French forces out of Nato's integrated military structure. His vision of France acting as a bridge with what used to be called the \"third world\" is still evident in attempts by Paris to foster a Mediterranean community and the global cultural role the country sees for itself.As for Franco-British relations, the order of the day is smiles all round as Sarkozy visits De Gaulle's wartime headquarters beside St James's Park and Resistance veterans make the Eurostar trip before returning to Paris for ceremonies there in the evening. The recurrent, sometimes violent wartime rows between De Gaulle and Winston Churchill will be shrugged off as being the way great men sometimes act under pressure. The general's subsequent dismissal of Britain as a US poodle and his 1963 veto on Harold Macmillan's bid to join the Common Market will not be mentioned \u2013 though the Eurosceptics in David Cameron's party may regard De Gaulle as a saviour in disguise.As it has turned out, the European Union based on the primacy of the nation states which De Gaulle preached is close to the policies followed by London since Margaret Thatcher. On the French side, Sarkozy may be moving towards a relationship with Washington not too far from that Cameron will craft. So there are points of convergence, while the tough economic measures George Osborne will unveil in his budget have certain similarities with the harsh economic medicine implemented in France as De Gaulle set up the Fifth Republic.But this should not lead one to ignore the basic reservations De Gaulle always had about the country across the narrow sea. This dated back to the Fashoda Incident, in which Britain bested France in Africa during his boyhood. In the 1930s, he denounced French politicians for following London's lead too closely in dealing with Hitler. During the war, he \u2013 rightly \u2013 concluded that once the United States had entered the conflict, London would always side with Washington. That remained his leitmotif during his decade as president of the Fifth Republic, and gave historic resonance to the opposition of the Chirac administration to the war in Iraq.This was not so much crude Anglophobia (or Americanophobia) but the result of De Gaulle's core belief in the greatness of France, with which he associated himself in a visceral personal manner. Starting on 18 June 1940, he performed a magisterial conjuring trick in asserting France's stature (and his own) against all the odds. He did so again after returning to power in 1958. The trick wore off as he aged and as his jeremiads against US policy carried less and less weight and his outbursts such as his cry of \"Vive le Qu\u00e9bec Libre\" appeared more and more as an effort by an old man to regain his former glory and influence.Forty years after De Gaulle's death, his successors are stuck with his legacy, but exercising it in the changed world is a mammoth task. His shadow lies over France, for good or ill. That is unlikely to change for one simple reason. When he claimed that he and his country were as one, De Gaulle was not wrong. France's strengths, weaknesses and contradictions were all contained in him. The Gaullist heritage is, thus, intimately bound up with the nature of France. Neither is likely to change.", "tags": ["Second world war", "France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Winston Churchill", "UK news", "World news", "Charles de Gaulle", "Europe"], "title": "De Gaulle's shadow still lies over France | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2010-06-16T13:56:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French government today sparked anger from unions and the Socialist opposition when it announced its intention to raise the legal age of retirement.The move comes as part of sweeping reforms to a pensions system deemed inadequate for the modern age.In a blow to a much-cherished exception fran\u00e7aise of the social landscape, the French will no longer be able to retire from the age of 60. They will instead be expected to work until they are 62 by 2018, the employment minister, Eric Woerth, said.Defending the move as an \"inevitable\" consequence of demographic changes, Woerth cited a list of other countries, including Britain, whose governments were faced with a similar dilemma.\"The ageing of the French population cannot be got round. We have to face up to it,\" he said. \"All our partners in Europe have done this by working for longer. It is not possible for us to not join this movement.\"As well as a progressive raising of the retirement age, beginning next July, the reform also envisages increasing the number of work years needed in order to claim a full pension, from 40.5 years now to at least 41.5 in 2020.An array of tax hikes, including a 1% surcharge on the top income tax bracket, also aims to raise revenue for a pensions system forecast to register a \u20ac32bn (\u00a326.6bn) deficit this year.\"It is fair to believe that those with more resources than others should contribute more than others to the financing of our pensions,\" Woerth said.The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who has singled out pensions as the most important area of reform required before his term in office ends in 2012, insisted the changes responded to the needs of \"justice and equality\".The rightwing president needs to show Brussels he is serious about taking steps to cut France's oversized budget deficit, which currently stands at 7.5% of GDP.Hoewever, his reforms have been denounced as anything but fair by the leftwing opposition, which has vowed to fight tooth and nail to maintain 60 as the legal age of retirement.Brought in by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand in the 1980s, the age is viewed by Socialist party stalwarts as a symbol of left-led social progress.\"I am very angry and very sad because the end of retirement at 60 ... is the end of an era,\" Jean-Luc M\u00e9lenchon , the head of the Parti de Gauche, told French radio. \"It's the end of a way of living, and it's the end of happy days.\"Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the former leader of the Socialist party, said the reform was \"the most unfair\" of any to have been pushed through by Sarkozy.\"[He] wanted, above all, to send a sign to the markets and to our European partners and he chose to make the poor and those who started work early pay,\" he said.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France unveils plans to raise retirement age"},{"date": "2010-06-08T10:07:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is the most expensive place to take a holiday according to research published today, despite the public perception that it is cheaper to visit than the Nordic countries, Dubai and Japan.A survey by flight comparison website Skyscanner compared the cost of paying for various typical items \u2013 including a coffee, a beer, a meal, accommodation in a Marriott hotel and hiring a car from Avis \u2013 in 30 different countries and found that the cheapest place to buy these was Cyprus, followed by mainland Greece and South Africa. If the cost of a flight was then included Cyprus and Greece were still the cheapest, followed by Morocco.But UK consumers were way off the mark when it came to predicting which countries were the cheapest or most expensive. Although the 1,500 people questioned for the survey were correct in ranking India, Thailand and Morocco among the least expensive, they also thought Mexico would be the fourth most competitively priced destination whereas it is actually in the top 10 most expensive, both excluding and including flights.Flights added considerably to the cost of holidays in far flung countries: although New Zealand was in the bottom 10 excluding flights, it moved up to eighth most expensive when travel was included.But perhaps most surprising was Dubai, which, perhaps because of its millionaires' playground image, was considered to be the fifth most expensive. In reality, however, it was the 12th most expensive excluding flights and dropped to 14th including flights, just behind Italy, Iceland and America.Barry Smith, director and co-founder of Skyscanner, said: \"We decided to undertake this research in response to consumer demand for greater price transparency on their trips abroad. Whilst the results are to some extent subjective, they do provide a broad guideline of total holiday cost.\"It is extremely interesting to see how many destinations challenge common perceptions and I am more than a little surprised to see France, a destination only a stone's throw away, emerge as the most expensive overall holiday.\"These figures show it is vital to consider all the hidden extras when planning a holiday, particularly that of the flight. Consumers shouldn't assume because a destination is known to be cheap when you get there, that the total cost won't escalate considerably once the cost of flights are added, making it a far pricier choice than some of the short-haul alternatives.\"", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Family finances", "Money", "Travel", "UK news", "France holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Denmark holidays", "Cyprus holidays"], "title": "France is 'most expensive holiday destination'"},{"date": "2010-05-25T15:07:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has dropped an arrest warrant for a British woman detained in 1989 on drug-related charges in a case that exposes the shortcomings of the EU's fast-track extradition system, human rights groups said today.Deborah Dark, 46, was arrested in France on drug-related offences and held for eight months pending trial.The French court found her not guilty of all her charges and she was released, but the French court of appeal overturned the original verdict without her knowledge in 1990, sentencing her to six years in prison.In 2005, the French authorities issued a European arrest warrant for Dark to be extradited to serve her sentence.She was arrested at gunpoint, strip-searched and handcuffed by customs police when she arrived in Turkey in 2007.\"I couldn't get any explanation from Turkish police, all they said was: 'Ask Interpol,'\" said Dark, who told UK police about what had happened.\"They searched their databases and told me there was no outstanding warrant listed. I went to the Serious Organised Crime Agency and they said the same thing. So I assumed it must have been a dreadful error.\"In 2008, Dark was arrested at a Spanish airport as she was about to return to the UK to await extradition to France.Her retired father, whom she had come to visit, had to take her daughter and her two grandchildren back to England while she was held for a month to await a hearing.The Spanish court refused to extradite Dark to France on the grounds that too much time had passed since the date of the alleged offences and that there was no chance of a fair retrial as evidence had disappeared and witnesses had either died or would not have remembered the events.Dark was released and flew back to England in October 2008, but was arrested when she arrived at Gatwick airport by British police under the same European arrest warrant. She was held overnight at Holloway prison, in London, before being released on bail.In April this year, City of Westminster magistrates' court refused to extradite her for the same reasons as the Spanish court.The judge found that there was a \"high risk of prejudice to Deborah Dark in the conduct of the retrial itself, and this must be unjust\".Despite the ruling, Dark could not risk travelling abroad \u2013 she has not seen her father for two years \u2013 because of the European arrest warrant hanging over her.Her ordeal finally ended after the French authorities informed Fair Trials International, the legal charity that has been supporting her, that they no longer sought her extradition because of the statute of limitations.As of yesterday, she can travel without fear of arrest and plans to visit her father in Spain as soon as possible.\"It's been hell on earth \u2013 I broke down and sobbed when they told me,\" she told the Guardian. \"I can start rebuilding my life.\"Fair Trials International says the case of Dark and others such as the football fan Garry Mann highlights the injustices of the European arrest warrant system with its fast-track extradition.Brought in after the September 11 2001 attacks in the US, the warrant was designed for serious crimes of national security.But according to Fair Trials International, people from all across Europe are being sent to other EU member states over minor offences or to serve prison sentences imposed after unfair trials.\"We are delighted that, 23 years after a French court first acquitted her, Deborah Dark is finally a free woman,\" said Jago Russell, the chief executive of Fair Trials International.\"She should not, though, have been put through this horrendous ordeal.\"Europe's fast-track extradition system must be reformed so countries are required to remove warrants when European courts have concluded that extradition would be unjust.\"", "tags": ["France", "European Union", "Human rights", "Law", "World news", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "France drops Deborah Dark arrest warrant"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is one of those countries that we think we know. This assumption is, in part, what shields so many of her more secret places from invasion. And when I say we, I don't mean just we British. The French, too, when they plan their long and frequent holidays, tend to stick to the well-trodden axes of pleasure: the Alps for their skiing, Brittany or Normandy for their spas, Provence for their long lunches by the pool . . .These are all corners well-served by the French state's magnificent infrastructure but there are other places, most of them off the beaten tracks of the TGV and the autoroutes \u2013 and where I live in the C\u00e9vennes mountains is one of them.Part of me is still wondering why, at the age of 43, I suddenly decided to uproot from a comfortable life in central Paris and move to a part of France so wild and so remote that even my best-educated Parisian friends, who had no difficulty rattling off the obscurest capital cities, were unable to locate it on the map. They knew that the Loz\u00e8re, the part of the C\u00e9vennes where I would henceforth be paying my taxes, was the most sparsely populated d\u00e9partment in France. And they knew that the c\u00e9venols \u2013 those taciturn, heavily defended peasants who feature in Raymond Depardon's fashionable and rather condescending documentary on rural France, La vie moderne \u2013 are mostly Protestant. For the French, a nation of lapsed Catholic pleasure-seekers, the word Protestant evokes hard work, austerity and mirthlessness. It is therefore of little surprise to me that, two years on, none of my Parisian friends has paid a visit.For Parisians, the C\u00e9vennes is still the place described by the great 19th-century French historian Jules Michelet: \"The C\u00e9vennes offer rock, nothing but rock, razor-sharp shale. You feel the struggle of man, his stubborn and prodigious labour in the face of nature.\"And it is true that everywhere you go in the area where I live, La Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, you see evidence of this struggle. You see it written on the landscape: in the dry stone walls and the terraces carved out of the steep hillsides; in the beautiful sweet chestnut groves that still march over so many of those terraces; even in my own roof, made of shale, each lauze carefully chosen and laid like fish scales in ascending order of size, from ridge to eaves. Michelet was right: it is a place of hardship. The Protestants of the C\u00e9vennes were brutally persecuted by the French Catholic monarchy for more than 120 years.Today it is still a place of rigorous husbandry. The nearest supermarket to where I live is half an hour away on winding roads, so every one of my neighbours has a vegetable garden hewn from their hillside; many have beehives on the furthest reaches of their land. Everyone has a log pile, beautifully stacked outside their house \u2013 the measure of their industry and their readiness for whatever nature can throw at them.Because in this part of the world, nature can suddenly turn nasty. Most of the year the climate is Mediterranean, softened a little in summer by the altitude. Winters are relatively short and mild, with the occasional dusting of snow on the summits. So at first it all seems relatively gentle, particularly to a Brit used to the annual tussle with seasonally adjusted depression. Cypress and green oak thrive on the south-facing slopes, and you can find morels in April, chanterelles in June and c\u00e8pes in October. At first I could not understand either the Parisian reluctance or indeed my neighbours' dogged preparedness for the worst. But in my first autumn here, I experienced an \u00e9pisode c\u00e9venol: when cold air from the Atlantic meets warm air from the Mediterranean, leading to dark cloud for days on end, apocalyptic rain, flash floods, broken bridges, dead sheep, restive children, fretful fathers and unhinged mothers. When it ended, and the sun came out, I found myself once again in the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen, one peopled with individuals who gave the impression that they felt lucky to be alive, today, and in this particular part of the world.You come to these hills \u2013 like the writer's writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, did \u2013 to think and to walk. Looking out over the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise from the breathtaking crest road that was carved through the Cevennes by Louis XIV's dragoons in their pitiless campaign against the Protestants, you will see little evidence of any change to the landscape since those times. Nothing but tiers of wooded hills fading to the distance with tiny villages huddled around their precious springs and linked by thousands of footpaths, still trodden by smallholders with their goats. This is not a place for people looking for distraction or amusement. It is, and always has been, a place of exile, a place to run away to.I once asked a neighbour of mine, who was giving me a lift to the village in his van, if he still noticed the beauty of the landscape he was brought up in. Without taking his eyes off the winding road, he smiled.\"Nope,\" he said. \"I drive over the mountain at sunrise every day and I see the mist in the valley but I don't look at it any more. If I ever went away, though, that's when I'd miss it, and I wouldn't be able to be without it.\"People here are not smug, but they know that they have something precious and they carry that knowledge like a secret worth having.In his essay Spirit of Place, Lawrence Durrell said, \"all landscapes ask the same question in the same whisper: I am watching you \u2013 are you watching yourself in me?\" It was without a doubt the landscape of the C\u00e9vennes that drew me. What it was that I saw there of myself I'm not entirely sure, but my father was raised by a Scottish mother near Stirling. When we went on holiday to Provence when I was a child, he would soon become bored by the luxuriant heat that so enchanted my mother, and together we would strike for the purple hills we could see in the distance. The low-lying mountains that you see if you look west from vineyards of the Rh\u00f4ne are a frontier. Beyond them lies another landscape, of craggy hills, mossy woodlands, vast moors, rushing streams and stone bridges. These are close to the Scottish landscapes of my father's youth. His fantasy, you might say, and not mine and yet the Gardon river in my valley flows towards the Mediterranean, not the North Sea. Put simply, it is perhaps as close as France gets to Scotland \u2013 or as close as I can get to my roots without betraying my self.\u2022 Places to stay: The Hotel Bourgade in Saint Andr\u00e9 de Valborgne (+33 4 66 566932), has doubles from \u20ac55. In the village of Les Plantiers, Auberge du Valgrand (+33 4 66 839011) has doubles from \u20ac65. There are no hotels in the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise but G\u00eetes de France has a selection of self-catering cottage in the area. Search on the website for Sainte Etienne Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, Moissac Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise or Sainte Croix Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise. Ryanair flies to N\u00eemes from Liverpool and Luton and to Montpellier from Bristol and Leeds-Bradford. Easyjet flies to Montpellier from Luton and Gatwick. London to Montpellier by rail with Rail Europe (08448 484 064) starts from \u00a3104.50 return. Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber). To order a copy for \u00a310.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6847", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "France", "Provence holidays", "Walking holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe"], "title": "Hidden France: the C\u00e9vennes mountains"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:06:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "The spur for my first-ever trip round France was Jacques Tati's classic comedy Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot, filmed in 1953 on the beach in St Marc sur Mer in the Loire-Atlantique.I'd seen the film as a child and the other-worldliness of this little resort and its fictional inhabitants made a deep impression on me. The world conjured up by Tati was so very different from Britain: hot, elegant, timeless and languid. Now, 40 years on, I was determined to see the place.This region of western France is often overlooked, and I was unsure what I might find. In any case, visiting iconic film locations can often prove a disappointing experience. It was late and pitch black by the time I arrived at Hulot's holiday base, the H\u00f4tel de la Plage, via a train from Paris to Nantes and a 15km taxi ride; and I went to bed full of trepidation for what daylight might reveal.I needn't have worried. When I threw open the curtains the next morning it was like stepping into the movie. There was that gusty little beach: there was the sleepy promenade framed by the distant cliffs on which Hulot set off the fireworks in one of the film's most memorable scenes; and there was the tiny spit jutting out into the ocean along which the elderly couple strolled each night after dinner.Apart from a commemorative bronze sculpture of Hulot himself on the esplanade, placed there in 1999, everything looked just as Tati had captured it over 50 years before.With its rocky coves, fabulous swimming, relaxing cliff-top walks and cosy restaurants, my three days in and around St Marc were a delight. On my second evening I even visited a travelling circus, and was rewarded by a memorable evening of flying acrobats, prancing horses, and a troupe of performing heifers, the whole evening suffused with the nostalgic aromas of damp canvas, sawdust and trodden grass.The German submarine base at nearby Saint-Nazaire offers a tour round a second-world-war U-Boat. The submarine pens and the base itself were so strongly fortified that they can never be eradicated \u2013 any attempt to blow them up would take half of the town with it. Near the base there's also a fabulous ocean liner exhibition, with son et lumiere effects, including an entire section ripped out of the luxury liner Le France, which was built here. Kids will love it.But in essence it's the off-the-beaten-track feel of this area that makes it so attractive. Less brooding than nearby Brittany, yet unspoilt, picturesque and with bags of charm. During my summer of discovery I travelled all round la belle France, but for me this region beat the lot.\u2022 H\u00f4tel de la Plage (+33 2 4091 9901), doubles from \u20ac85 (room only)Michael Simkins is an actor and author. His latest book is Detour de France (Ebury Press, \u00a37.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Beach holidays", "Family holidays", "Film", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Happy vacances: Jacques Tati's France"},{"date": "2010-06-18T10:00:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Together with Bastille Day and the anniversaries of the end of the two world wars, today is a seminal date for France, reflected in the visit of President Nicolas Sarkozy to London for anniversary ceremonies and a plethora of celebrations on both sides of the Channel. It also raises intriguing questions about the Franco-British relationship, Europe, transatlantic links \u2013 and the legacy of the greatest French leader of the 20th century.Charles de Gaulle's call on the BBC from London on this day in 1940 to his country not to give up the fight against Germany marked a historic moment, which salvaged French pride in subsequent years despite the way France had crumbled in the face of the Nazi assault. Far fewer people rallied to the Resistance, at least in its earlier stages, than was suggested by the subsequent myth that the country came together against the invaders with whom the P\u00e9tain administration signed a humiliating armistice on 22 June.The broadcast was heard by few people in France, and the BBC did not keep a recording of it. He was virtually unknown in London and the British government, which had initially vetoed the speech, sought other more prominent French figures to lead the resistance to Adolf Hitler.Still, the speech was an essential moment, enabling De Gaulle to claim that the French state had not surrendered but, improbable as it might appear, had moved to London. It also reflected his pragmatism; he was sure Hitler would eventually be defeated and he wanted to ensure that France came out of the war on the side of the winners as an independent nation that would not be subjected to military occupation, as Franklin D Roosevelt planned.As I wrote my new biography of De Gaulle, published to coincide with the anniversary this week, the question keeps coming up of how this tall, gawky soldier who had been made a junior minister only a couple of weeks earlier and had now, in effect, staged a rebellion against the government of his country with a handful of followers, became the embodiment of France.Today, 42 years after he founded the Fifth Republic, De Gaulle is \u2013 like it or not \u2013 the template against which French leaders are judged. His conception of the executive president, directly elected by the people at large, endures. His quasi-religious devotion to the strong, centralised state is evident in the difficulty that Sarkozy, like some of his predecessors, has in introducing reforms seen as threatening the authority of that state and the benefits it confers on those who work under its umbrella.In Europe, De Gaulle's recognition of the fundamental importance of Franco-German rapprochement after three wars remains key to French policy even when, as at present, the air between Paris and Berlin is far from warm.Further afield, his suspicion of American designs on the world, nurtured by his scratchy wartime relations with Roosevelt and then bolstered by his opposition to the war in Vietnam and his insistence on Europe asserting its independence of Washington, continues to find strong echoes in France, even if Sarkozy has overturned his decision to pull French forces out of Nato's integrated military structure. His vision of France acting as a bridge with what used to be called the \"third world\" is still evident in attempts by Paris to foster a Mediterranean community and the global cultural role the country sees for itself.As for Franco-British relations, the order of the day is smiles all round as Sarkozy visits De Gaulle's wartime headquarters beside St James's Park and Resistance veterans make the Eurostar trip before returning to Paris for ceremonies there in the evening. The recurrent, sometimes violent wartime rows between De Gaulle and Winston Churchill will be shrugged off as being the way great men sometimes act under pressure. The general's subsequent dismissal of Britain as a US poodle and his 1963 veto on Harold Macmillan's bid to join the Common Market will not be mentioned \u2013 though the Eurosceptics in David Cameron's party may regard De Gaulle as a saviour in disguise.As it has turned out, the European Union based on the primacy of the nation states which De Gaulle preached is close to the policies followed by London since Margaret Thatcher. On the French side, Sarkozy may be moving towards a relationship with Washington not too far from that Cameron will craft. So there are points of convergence, while the tough economic measures George Osborne will unveil in his budget have certain similarities with the harsh economic medicine implemented in France as De Gaulle set up the Fifth Republic.But this should not lead one to ignore the basic reservations De Gaulle always had about the country across the narrow sea. This dated back to the Fashoda Incident, in which Britain bested France in Africa during his boyhood. In the 1930s, he denounced French politicians for following London's lead too closely in dealing with Hitler. During the war, he \u2013 rightly \u2013 concluded that once the United States had entered the conflict, London would always side with Washington. That remained his leitmotif during his decade as president of the Fifth Republic, and gave historic resonance to the opposition of the Chirac administration to the war in Iraq.This was not so much crude Anglophobia (or Americanophobia) but the result of De Gaulle's core belief in the greatness of France, with which he associated himself in a visceral personal manner. Starting on 18 June 1940, he performed a magisterial conjuring trick in asserting France's stature (and his own) against all the odds. He did so again after returning to power in 1958. The trick wore off as he aged and as his jeremiads against US policy carried less and less weight and his outbursts such as his cry of \"Vive le Qu\u00e9bec Libre\" appeared more and more as an effort by an old man to regain his former glory and influence.Forty years after De Gaulle's death, his successors are stuck with his legacy, but exercising it in the changed world is a mammoth task. His shadow lies over France, for good or ill. That is unlikely to change for one simple reason. When he claimed that he and his country were as one, De Gaulle was not wrong. France's strengths, weaknesses and contradictions were all contained in him. The Gaullist heritage is, thus, intimately bound up with the nature of France. Neither is likely to change.", "tags": ["Second world war", "France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Winston Churchill", "UK news", "World news", "Charles de Gaulle", "Europe"], "title": "De Gaulle's shadow still lies over France | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2010-06-16T13:56:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French government today sparked anger from unions and the Socialist opposition when it announced its intention to raise the legal age of retirement.The move comes as part of sweeping reforms to a pensions system deemed inadequate for the modern age.In a blow to a much-cherished exception fran\u00e7aise of the social landscape, the French will no longer be able to retire from the age of 60. They will instead be expected to work until they are 62 by 2018, the employment minister, Eric Woerth, said.Defending the move as an \"inevitable\" consequence of demographic changes, Woerth cited a list of other countries, including Britain, whose governments were faced with a similar dilemma.\"The ageing of the French population cannot be got round. We have to face up to it,\" he said. \"All our partners in Europe have done this by working for longer. It is not possible for us to not join this movement.\"As well as a progressive raising of the retirement age, beginning next July, the reform also envisages increasing the number of work years needed in order to claim a full pension, from 40.5 years now to at least 41.5 in 2020.An array of tax hikes, including a 1% surcharge on the top income tax bracket, also aims to raise revenue for a pensions system forecast to register a \u20ac32bn (\u00a326.6bn) deficit this year.\"It is fair to believe that those with more resources than others should contribute more than others to the financing of our pensions,\" Woerth said.The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who has singled out pensions as the most important area of reform required before his term in office ends in 2012, insisted the changes responded to the needs of \"justice and equality\".The rightwing president needs to show Brussels he is serious about taking steps to cut France's oversized budget deficit, which currently stands at 7.5% of GDP.Hoewever, his reforms have been denounced as anything but fair by the leftwing opposition, which has vowed to fight tooth and nail to maintain 60 as the legal age of retirement.Brought in by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand in the 1980s, the age is viewed by Socialist party stalwarts as a symbol of left-led social progress.\"I am very angry and very sad because the end of retirement at 60 ... is the end of an era,\" Jean-Luc M\u00e9lenchon , the head of the Parti de Gauche, told French radio. \"It's the end of a way of living, and it's the end of happy days.\"Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the former leader of the Socialist party, said the reform was \"the most unfair\" of any to have been pushed through by Sarkozy.\"[He] wanted, above all, to send a sign to the markets and to our European partners and he chose to make the poor and those who started work early pay,\" he said.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France unveils plans to raise retirement age"},{"date": "2010-06-08T10:07:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is the most expensive place to take a holiday according to research published today, despite the public perception that it is cheaper to visit than the Nordic countries, Dubai and Japan.A survey by flight comparison website Skyscanner compared the cost of paying for various typical items \u2013 including a coffee, a beer, a meal, accommodation in a Marriott hotel and hiring a car from Avis \u2013 in 30 different countries and found that the cheapest place to buy these was Cyprus, followed by mainland Greece and South Africa. If the cost of a flight was then included Cyprus and Greece were still the cheapest, followed by Morocco.But UK consumers were way off the mark when it came to predicting which countries were the cheapest or most expensive. Although the 1,500 people questioned for the survey were correct in ranking India, Thailand and Morocco among the least expensive, they also thought Mexico would be the fourth most competitively priced destination whereas it is actually in the top 10 most expensive, both excluding and including flights.Flights added considerably to the cost of holidays in far flung countries: although New Zealand was in the bottom 10 excluding flights, it moved up to eighth most expensive when travel was included.But perhaps most surprising was Dubai, which, perhaps because of its millionaires' playground image, was considered to be the fifth most expensive. In reality, however, it was the 12th most expensive excluding flights and dropped to 14th including flights, just behind Italy, Iceland and America.Barry Smith, director and co-founder of Skyscanner, said: \"We decided to undertake this research in response to consumer demand for greater price transparency on their trips abroad. Whilst the results are to some extent subjective, they do provide a broad guideline of total holiday cost.\"It is extremely interesting to see how many destinations challenge common perceptions and I am more than a little surprised to see France, a destination only a stone's throw away, emerge as the most expensive overall holiday.\"These figures show it is vital to consider all the hidden extras when planning a holiday, particularly that of the flight. Consumers shouldn't assume because a destination is known to be cheap when you get there, that the total cost won't escalate considerably once the cost of flights are added, making it a far pricier choice than some of the short-haul alternatives.\"", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Family finances", "Money", "Travel", "UK news", "France holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Denmark holidays", "Cyprus holidays"], "title": "France is 'most expensive holiday destination'"},{"date": "2010-05-25T15:07:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has dropped an arrest warrant for a British woman detained in 1989 on drug-related charges in a case that exposes the shortcomings of the EU's fast-track extradition system, human rights groups said today.Deborah Dark, 46, was arrested in France on drug-related offences and held for eight months pending trial.The French court found her not guilty of all her charges and she was released, but the French court of appeal overturned the original verdict without her knowledge in 1990, sentencing her to six years in prison.In 2005, the French authorities issued a European arrest warrant for Dark to be extradited to serve her sentence.She was arrested at gunpoint, strip-searched and handcuffed by customs police when she arrived in Turkey in 2007.\"I couldn't get any explanation from Turkish police, all they said was: 'Ask Interpol,'\" said Dark, who told UK police about what had happened.\"They searched their databases and told me there was no outstanding warrant listed. I went to the Serious Organised Crime Agency and they said the same thing. So I assumed it must have been a dreadful error.\"In 2008, Dark was arrested at a Spanish airport as she was about to return to the UK to await extradition to France.Her retired father, whom she had come to visit, had to take her daughter and her two grandchildren back to England while she was held for a month to await a hearing.The Spanish court refused to extradite Dark to France on the grounds that too much time had passed since the date of the alleged offences and that there was no chance of a fair retrial as evidence had disappeared and witnesses had either died or would not have remembered the events.Dark was released and flew back to England in October 2008, but was arrested when she arrived at Gatwick airport by British police under the same European arrest warrant. She was held overnight at Holloway prison, in London, before being released on bail.In April this year, City of Westminster magistrates' court refused to extradite her for the same reasons as the Spanish court.The judge found that there was a \"high risk of prejudice to Deborah Dark in the conduct of the retrial itself, and this must be unjust\".Despite the ruling, Dark could not risk travelling abroad \u2013 she has not seen her father for two years \u2013 because of the European arrest warrant hanging over her.Her ordeal finally ended after the French authorities informed Fair Trials International, the legal charity that has been supporting her, that they no longer sought her extradition because of the statute of limitations.As of yesterday, she can travel without fear of arrest and plans to visit her father in Spain as soon as possible.\"It's been hell on earth \u2013 I broke down and sobbed when they told me,\" she told the Guardian. \"I can start rebuilding my life.\"Fair Trials International says the case of Dark and others such as the football fan Garry Mann highlights the injustices of the European arrest warrant system with its fast-track extradition.Brought in after the September 11 2001 attacks in the US, the warrant was designed for serious crimes of national security.But according to Fair Trials International, people from all across Europe are being sent to other EU member states over minor offences or to serve prison sentences imposed after unfair trials.\"We are delighted that, 23 years after a French court first acquitted her, Deborah Dark is finally a free woman,\" said Jago Russell, the chief executive of Fair Trials International.\"She should not, though, have been put through this horrendous ordeal.\"Europe's fast-track extradition system must be reformed so countries are required to remove warrants when European courts have concluded that extradition would be unjust.\"", "tags": ["France", "European Union", "Human rights", "Law", "World news", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "France drops Deborah Dark arrest warrant"},{"date": "2010-05-14T18:54:46Z", "country": "france", "content": "Then there are measures such as labour productivity growth, which is lower than Britain's over the 12 years from 1997 to 2009. It is low productivity and growth that is the crux of the issue and France is in much the same position as other European nations, including Britain. Investors ask how it will grow its way out of the crisis when demand in Europe is flat and its goods cost too much to sell in other parts of the world.Angela Merkel has denied the French threatened to quit. Her advisers believe the story of Sarkozy's table-thumping, sourced to figures in the Spanish government, is more likely to come from the mouths of rumour-mongering hedge funds that have placed bets on the collapse of the euro. Yet it could be that her nose is out of joint because she wants to be the first to quit. Certainly there is a strong sense inside Germany that it should stop bailing out profligate southern European nations. Rumours abound \u2013 probably put about by hedge funds \u2013 that Merkel is printing German marks in preparation for a split.German banks hold billions of euros of Greek debt. Around half the mortgage loans raised by Spanish construction companies to build flats on the Costas were funded by German banks. Spaniards and Greeks buy Audis and VWs by the truckload. In short, the German economy is inextricably linked to Europe. The savings of ordinary Germans are invested in things that are now worth much less than they were: much of their cash was behind property speculation in Greece, Ireland and Spain. Without German loans, a property boom would not have happened. Most economists argue the euro countries need to stand together or they will fall apart \u2013 and fall a long way.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "Financial crisis", "Economics", "World news", "Germany", "Business", "France", "Europe"], "title": "Q&A: Could France leave the eurozone?"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is one of those countries that we think we know. This assumption is, in part, what shields so many of her more secret places from invasion. And when I say we, I don't mean just we British. The French, too, when they plan their long and frequent holidays, tend to stick to the well-trodden axes of pleasure: the Alps for their skiing, Brittany or Normandy for their spas, Provence for their long lunches by the pool . . .These are all corners well-served by the French state's magnificent infrastructure but there are other places, most of them off the beaten tracks of the TGV and the autoroutes \u2013 and where I live in the C\u00e9vennes mountains is one of them.Part of me is still wondering why, at the age of 43, I suddenly decided to uproot from a comfortable life in central Paris and move to a part of France so wild and so remote that even my best-educated Parisian friends, who had no difficulty rattling off the obscurest capital cities, were unable to locate it on the map. They knew that the Loz\u00e8re, the part of the C\u00e9vennes where I would henceforth be paying my taxes, was the most sparsely populated d\u00e9partment in France. And they knew that the c\u00e9venols \u2013 those taciturn, heavily defended peasants who feature in Raymond Depardon's fashionable and rather condescending documentary on rural France, La vie moderne \u2013 are mostly Protestant. For the French, a nation of lapsed Catholic pleasure-seekers, the word Protestant evokes hard work, austerity and mirthlessness. It is therefore of little surprise to me that, two years on, none of my Parisian friends has paid a visit.For Parisians, the C\u00e9vennes is still the place described by the great 19th-century French historian Jules Michelet: \"The C\u00e9vennes offer rock, nothing but rock, razor-sharp shale. You feel the struggle of man, his stubborn and prodigious labour in the face of nature.\"And it is true that everywhere you go in the area where I live, La Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, you see evidence of this struggle. You see it written on the landscape: in the dry stone walls and the terraces carved out of the steep hillsides; in the beautiful sweet chestnut groves that still march over so many of those terraces; even in my own roof, made of shale, each lauze carefully chosen and laid like fish scales in ascending order of size, from ridge to eaves. Michelet was right: it is a place of hardship. The Protestants of the C\u00e9vennes were brutally persecuted by the French Catholic monarchy for more than 120 years.Today it is still a place of rigorous husbandry. The nearest supermarket to where I live is half an hour away on winding roads, so every one of my neighbours has a vegetable garden hewn from their hillside; many have beehives on the furthest reaches of their land. Everyone has a log pile, beautifully stacked outside their house \u2013 the measure of their industry and their readiness for whatever nature can throw at them.Because in this part of the world, nature can suddenly turn nasty. Most of the year the climate is Mediterranean, softened a little in summer by the altitude. Winters are relatively short and mild, with the occasional dusting of snow on the summits. So at first it all seems relatively gentle, particularly to a Brit used to the annual tussle with seasonally adjusted depression. Cypress and green oak thrive on the south-facing slopes, and you can find morels in April, chanterelles in June and c\u00e8pes in October. At first I could not understand either the Parisian reluctance or indeed my neighbours' dogged preparedness for the worst. But in my first autumn here, I experienced an \u00e9pisode c\u00e9venol: when cold air from the Atlantic meets warm air from the Mediterranean, leading to dark cloud for days on end, apocalyptic rain, flash floods, broken bridges, dead sheep, restive children, fretful fathers and unhinged mothers. When it ended, and the sun came out, I found myself once again in the most beautiful landscape I had ever seen, one peopled with individuals who gave the impression that they felt lucky to be alive, today, and in this particular part of the world.You come to these hills \u2013 like the writer's writer, Robert Louis Stevenson, did \u2013 to think and to walk. Looking out over the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise from the breathtaking crest road that was carved through the Cevennes by Louis XIV's dragoons in their pitiless campaign against the Protestants, you will see little evidence of any change to the landscape since those times. Nothing but tiers of wooded hills fading to the distance with tiny villages huddled around their precious springs and linked by thousands of footpaths, still trodden by smallholders with their goats. This is not a place for people looking for distraction or amusement. It is, and always has been, a place of exile, a place to run away to.I once asked a neighbour of mine, who was giving me a lift to the village in his van, if he still noticed the beauty of the landscape he was brought up in. Without taking his eyes off the winding road, he smiled.\"Nope,\" he said. \"I drive over the mountain at sunrise every day and I see the mist in the valley but I don't look at it any more. If I ever went away, though, that's when I'd miss it, and I wouldn't be able to be without it.\"People here are not smug, but they know that they have something precious and they carry that knowledge like a secret worth having.In his essay Spirit of Place, Lawrence Durrell said, \"all landscapes ask the same question in the same whisper: I am watching you \u2013 are you watching yourself in me?\" It was without a doubt the landscape of the C\u00e9vennes that drew me. What it was that I saw there of myself I'm not entirely sure, but my father was raised by a Scottish mother near Stirling. When we went on holiday to Provence when I was a child, he would soon become bored by the luxuriant heat that so enchanted my mother, and together we would strike for the purple hills we could see in the distance. The low-lying mountains that you see if you look west from vineyards of the Rh\u00f4ne are a frontier. Beyond them lies another landscape, of craggy hills, mossy woodlands, vast moors, rushing streams and stone bridges. These are close to the Scottish landscapes of my father's youth. His fantasy, you might say, and not mine and yet the Gardon river in my valley flows towards the Mediterranean, not the North Sea. Put simply, it is perhaps as close as France gets to Scotland \u2013 or as close as I can get to my roots without betraying my self.\u2022 Places to stay: The Hotel Bourgade in Saint Andr\u00e9 de Valborgne (+33 4 66 566932), has doubles from \u20ac55. In the village of Les Plantiers, Auberge du Valgrand (+33 4 66 839011) has doubles from \u20ac65. There are no hotels in the Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise but G\u00eetes de France has a selection of self-catering cottage in the area. Search on the website for Sainte Etienne Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise, Moissac Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise or Sainte Croix Vall\u00e9e Fran\u00e7aise. Ryanair flies to N\u00eemes from Liverpool and Luton and to Montpellier from Bristol and Leeds-Bradford. Easyjet flies to Montpellier from Luton and Gatwick. London to Montpellier by rail with Rail Europe (08448 484 064) starts from \u00a3104.50 return. Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber). To order a copy for \u00a310.99 with free UK p&p go to theguardian.com/bookshop or call 0330 333 6847", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "France", "Provence holidays", "Walking holidays", "Cultural trips", "Europe"], "title": "Hidden France: the C\u00e9vennes mountains"},{"date": "2010-04-23T23:06:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "The spur for my first-ever trip round France was Jacques Tati's classic comedy Les Vacances de Monsieur Hulot, filmed in 1953 on the beach in St Marc sur Mer in the Loire-Atlantique.I'd seen the film as a child and the other-worldliness of this little resort and its fictional inhabitants made a deep impression on me. The world conjured up by Tati was so very different from Britain: hot, elegant, timeless and languid. Now, 40 years on, I was determined to see the place.This region of western France is often overlooked, and I was unsure what I might find. In any case, visiting iconic film locations can often prove a disappointing experience. It was late and pitch black by the time I arrived at Hulot's holiday base, the H\u00f4tel de la Plage, via a train from Paris to Nantes and a 15km taxi ride; and I went to bed full of trepidation for what daylight might reveal.I needn't have worried. When I threw open the curtains the next morning it was like stepping into the movie. There was that gusty little beach: there was the sleepy promenade framed by the distant cliffs on which Hulot set off the fireworks in one of the film's most memorable scenes; and there was the tiny spit jutting out into the ocean along which the elderly couple strolled each night after dinner.Apart from a commemorative bronze sculpture of Hulot himself on the esplanade, placed there in 1999, everything looked just as Tati had captured it over 50 years before.With its rocky coves, fabulous swimming, relaxing cliff-top walks and cosy restaurants, my three days in and around St Marc were a delight. On my second evening I even visited a travelling circus, and was rewarded by a memorable evening of flying acrobats, prancing horses, and a troupe of performing heifers, the whole evening suffused with the nostalgic aromas of damp canvas, sawdust and trodden grass.The German submarine base at nearby Saint-Nazaire offers a tour round a second-world-war U-Boat. The submarine pens and the base itself were so strongly fortified that they can never be eradicated \u2013 any attempt to blow them up would take half of the town with it. Near the base there's also a fabulous ocean liner exhibition, with son et lumiere effects, including an entire section ripped out of the luxury liner Le France, which was built here. Kids will love it.But in essence it's the off-the-beaten-track feel of this area that makes it so attractive. Less brooding than nearby Brittany, yet unspoilt, picturesque and with bags of charm. During my summer of discovery I travelled all round la belle France, but for me this region beat the lot.\u2022 H\u00f4tel de la Plage (+33 2 4091 9901), doubles from \u20ac85 (room only)Michael Simkins is an actor and author. His latest book is Detour de France (Ebury Press, \u00a37.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Beach holidays", "Family holidays", "Film", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "Happy vacances: Jacques Tati's France"},{"date": "2010-06-18T10:00:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Together with Bastille Day and the anniversaries of the end of the two world wars, today is a seminal date for France, reflected in the visit of President Nicolas Sarkozy to London for anniversary ceremonies and a plethora of celebrations on both sides of the Channel. It also raises intriguing questions about the Franco-British relationship, Europe, transatlantic links \u2013 and the legacy of the greatest French leader of the 20th century.Charles de Gaulle's call on the BBC from London on this day in 1940 to his country not to give up the fight against Germany marked a historic moment, which salvaged French pride in subsequent years despite the way France had crumbled in the face of the Nazi assault. Far fewer people rallied to the Resistance, at least in its earlier stages, than was suggested by the subsequent myth that the country came together against the invaders with whom the P\u00e9tain administration signed a humiliating armistice on 22 June.The broadcast was heard by few people in France, and the BBC did not keep a recording of it. He was virtually unknown in London and the British government, which had initially vetoed the speech, sought other more prominent French figures to lead the resistance to Adolf Hitler.Still, the speech was an essential moment, enabling De Gaulle to claim that the French state had not surrendered but, improbable as it might appear, had moved to London. It also reflected his pragmatism; he was sure Hitler would eventually be defeated and he wanted to ensure that France came out of the war on the side of the winners as an independent nation that would not be subjected to military occupation, as Franklin D Roosevelt planned.As I wrote my new biography of De Gaulle, published to coincide with the anniversary this week, the question keeps coming up of how this tall, gawky soldier who had been made a junior minister only a couple of weeks earlier and had now, in effect, staged a rebellion against the government of his country with a handful of followers, became the embodiment of France.Today, 42 years after he founded the Fifth Republic, De Gaulle is \u2013 like it or not \u2013 the template against which French leaders are judged. His conception of the executive president, directly elected by the people at large, endures. His quasi-religious devotion to the strong, centralised state is evident in the difficulty that Sarkozy, like some of his predecessors, has in introducing reforms seen as threatening the authority of that state and the benefits it confers on those who work under its umbrella.In Europe, De Gaulle's recognition of the fundamental importance of Franco-German rapprochement after three wars remains key to French policy even when, as at present, the air between Paris and Berlin is far from warm.Further afield, his suspicion of American designs on the world, nurtured by his scratchy wartime relations with Roosevelt and then bolstered by his opposition to the war in Vietnam and his insistence on Europe asserting its independence of Washington, continues to find strong echoes in France, even if Sarkozy has overturned his decision to pull French forces out of Nato's integrated military structure. His vision of France acting as a bridge with what used to be called the \"third world\" is still evident in attempts by Paris to foster a Mediterranean community and the global cultural role the country sees for itself.As for Franco-British relations, the order of the day is smiles all round as Sarkozy visits De Gaulle's wartime headquarters beside St James's Park and Resistance veterans make the Eurostar trip before returning to Paris for ceremonies there in the evening. The recurrent, sometimes violent wartime rows between De Gaulle and Winston Churchill will be shrugged off as being the way great men sometimes act under pressure. The general's subsequent dismissal of Britain as a US poodle and his 1963 veto on Harold Macmillan's bid to join the Common Market will not be mentioned \u2013 though the Eurosceptics in David Cameron's party may regard De Gaulle as a saviour in disguise.As it has turned out, the European Union based on the primacy of the nation states which De Gaulle preached is close to the policies followed by London since Margaret Thatcher. On the French side, Sarkozy may be moving towards a relationship with Washington not too far from that Cameron will craft. So there are points of convergence, while the tough economic measures George Osborne will unveil in his budget have certain similarities with the harsh economic medicine implemented in France as De Gaulle set up the Fifth Republic.But this should not lead one to ignore the basic reservations De Gaulle always had about the country across the narrow sea. This dated back to the Fashoda Incident, in which Britain bested France in Africa during his boyhood. In the 1930s, he denounced French politicians for following London's lead too closely in dealing with Hitler. During the war, he \u2013 rightly \u2013 concluded that once the United States had entered the conflict, London would always side with Washington. That remained his leitmotif during his decade as president of the Fifth Republic, and gave historic resonance to the opposition of the Chirac administration to the war in Iraq.This was not so much crude Anglophobia (or Americanophobia) but the result of De Gaulle's core belief in the greatness of France, with which he associated himself in a visceral personal manner. Starting on 18 June 1940, he performed a magisterial conjuring trick in asserting France's stature (and his own) against all the odds. He did so again after returning to power in 1958. The trick wore off as he aged and as his jeremiads against US policy carried less and less weight and his outbursts such as his cry of \"Vive le Qu\u00e9bec Libre\" appeared more and more as an effort by an old man to regain his former glory and influence.Forty years after De Gaulle's death, his successors are stuck with his legacy, but exercising it in the changed world is a mammoth task. His shadow lies over France, for good or ill. That is unlikely to change for one simple reason. When he claimed that he and his country were as one, De Gaulle was not wrong. France's strengths, weaknesses and contradictions were all contained in him. The Gaullist heritage is, thus, intimately bound up with the nature of France. Neither is likely to change.", "tags": ["Second world war", "France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Winston Churchill", "UK news", "World news", "Charles de Gaulle", "Europe"], "title": "De Gaulle's shadow still lies over France | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2010-06-16T13:56:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French government today sparked anger from unions and the Socialist opposition when it announced its intention to raise the legal age of retirement.The move comes as part of sweeping reforms to a pensions system deemed inadequate for the modern age.In a blow to a much-cherished exception fran\u00e7aise of the social landscape, the French will no longer be able to retire from the age of 60. They will instead be expected to work until they are 62 by 2018, the employment minister, Eric Woerth, said.Defending the move as an \"inevitable\" consequence of demographic changes, Woerth cited a list of other countries, including Britain, whose governments were faced with a similar dilemma.\"The ageing of the French population cannot be got round. We have to face up to it,\" he said. \"All our partners in Europe have done this by working for longer. It is not possible for us to not join this movement.\"As well as a progressive raising of the retirement age, beginning next July, the reform also envisages increasing the number of work years needed in order to claim a full pension, from 40.5 years now to at least 41.5 in 2020.An array of tax hikes, including a 1% surcharge on the top income tax bracket, also aims to raise revenue for a pensions system forecast to register a \u20ac32bn (\u00a326.6bn) deficit this year.\"It is fair to believe that those with more resources than others should contribute more than others to the financing of our pensions,\" Woerth said.The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, who has singled out pensions as the most important area of reform required before his term in office ends in 2012, insisted the changes responded to the needs of \"justice and equality\".The rightwing president needs to show Brussels he is serious about taking steps to cut France's oversized budget deficit, which currently stands at 7.5% of GDP.Hoewever, his reforms have been denounced as anything but fair by the leftwing opposition, which has vowed to fight tooth and nail to maintain 60 as the legal age of retirement.Brought in by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand in the 1980s, the age is viewed by Socialist party stalwarts as a symbol of left-led social progress.\"I am very angry and very sad because the end of retirement at 60 ... is the end of an era,\" Jean-Luc M\u00e9lenchon , the head of the Parti de Gauche, told French radio. \"It's the end of a way of living, and it's the end of happy days.\"Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the former leader of the Socialist party, said the reform was \"the most unfair\" of any to have been pushed through by Sarkozy.\"[He] wanted, above all, to send a sign to the markets and to our European partners and he chose to make the poor and those who started work early pay,\" he said.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France unveils plans to raise retirement age"},{"date": "2010-06-08T10:07:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is the most expensive place to take a holiday according to research published today, despite the public perception that it is cheaper to visit than the Nordic countries, Dubai and Japan.A survey by flight comparison website Skyscanner compared the cost of paying for various typical items \u2013 including a coffee, a beer, a meal, accommodation in a Marriott hotel and hiring a car from Avis \u2013 in 30 different countries and found that the cheapest place to buy these was Cyprus, followed by mainland Greece and South Africa. If the cost of a flight was then included Cyprus and Greece were still the cheapest, followed by Morocco.But UK consumers were way off the mark when it came to predicting which countries were the cheapest or most expensive. Although the 1,500 people questioned for the survey were correct in ranking India, Thailand and Morocco among the least expensive, they also thought Mexico would be the fourth most competitively priced destination whereas it is actually in the top 10 most expensive, both excluding and including flights.Flights added considerably to the cost of holidays in far flung countries: although New Zealand was in the bottom 10 excluding flights, it moved up to eighth most expensive when travel was included.But perhaps most surprising was Dubai, which, perhaps because of its millionaires' playground image, was considered to be the fifth most expensive. In reality, however, it was the 12th most expensive excluding flights and dropped to 14th including flights, just behind Italy, Iceland and America.Barry Smith, director and co-founder of Skyscanner, said: \"We decided to undertake this research in response to consumer demand for greater price transparency on their trips abroad. Whilst the results are to some extent subjective, they do provide a broad guideline of total holiday cost.\"It is extremely interesting to see how many destinations challenge common perceptions and I am more than a little surprised to see France, a destination only a stone's throw away, emerge as the most expensive overall holiday.\"These figures show it is vital to consider all the hidden extras when planning a holiday, particularly that of the flight. Consumers shouldn't assume because a destination is known to be cheap when you get there, that the total cost won't escalate considerably once the cost of flights are added, making it a far pricier choice than some of the short-haul alternatives.\"", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Family finances", "Money", "Travel", "UK news", "France holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Denmark holidays", "Cyprus holidays"], "title": "France is 'most expensive holiday destination'"},{"date": "2010-05-25T15:07:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has dropped an arrest warrant for a British woman detained in 1989 on drug-related charges in a case that exposes the shortcomings of the EU's fast-track extradition system, human rights groups said today.Deborah Dark, 46, was arrested in France on drug-related offences and held for eight months pending trial.The French court found her not guilty of all her charges and she was released, but the French court of appeal overturned the original verdict without her knowledge in 1990, sentencing her to six years in prison.In 2005, the French authorities issued a European arrest warrant for Dark to be extradited to serve her sentence.She was arrested at gunpoint, strip-searched and handcuffed by customs police when she arrived in Turkey in 2007.\"I couldn't get any explanation from Turkish police, all they said was: 'Ask Interpol,'\" said Dark, who told UK police about what had happened.\"They searched their databases and told me there was no outstanding warrant listed. I went to the Serious Organised Crime Agency and they said the same thing. So I assumed it must have been a dreadful error.\"In 2008, Dark was arrested at a Spanish airport as she was about to return to the UK to await extradition to France.Her retired father, whom she had come to visit, had to take her daughter and her two grandchildren back to England while she was held for a month to await a hearing.The Spanish court refused to extradite Dark to France on the grounds that too much time had passed since the date of the alleged offences and that there was no chance of a fair retrial as evidence had disappeared and witnesses had either died or would not have remembered the events.Dark was released and flew back to England in October 2008, but was arrested when she arrived at Gatwick airport by British police under the same European arrest warrant. She was held overnight at Holloway prison, in London, before being released on bail.In April this year, City of Westminster magistrates' court refused to extradite her for the same reasons as the Spanish court.The judge found that there was a \"high risk of prejudice to Deborah Dark in the conduct of the retrial itself, and this must be unjust\".Despite the ruling, Dark could not risk travelling abroad \u2013 she has not seen her father for two years \u2013 because of the European arrest warrant hanging over her.Her ordeal finally ended after the French authorities informed Fair Trials International, the legal charity that has been supporting her, that they no longer sought her extradition because of the statute of limitations.As of yesterday, she can travel without fear of arrest and plans to visit her father in Spain as soon as possible.\"It's been hell on earth \u2013 I broke down and sobbed when they told me,\" she told the Guardian. \"I can start rebuilding my life.\"Fair Trials International says the case of Dark and others such as the football fan Garry Mann highlights the injustices of the European arrest warrant system with its fast-track extradition.Brought in after the September 11 2001 attacks in the US, the warrant was designed for serious crimes of national security.But according to Fair Trials International, people from all across Europe are being sent to other EU member states over minor offences or to serve prison sentences imposed after unfair trials.\"We are delighted that, 23 years after a French court first acquitted her, Deborah Dark is finally a free woman,\" said Jago Russell, the chief executive of Fair Trials International.\"She should not, though, have been put through this horrendous ordeal.\"Europe's fast-track extradition system must be reformed so countries are required to remove warrants when European courts have concluded that extradition would be unjust.\"", "tags": ["France", "European Union", "Human rights", "Law", "World news", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "France drops Deborah Dark arrest warrant"},{"date": "2010-05-14T18:54:46Z", "country": "france", "content": "Then there are measures such as labour productivity growth, which is lower than Britain's over the 12 years from 1997 to 2009. It is low productivity and growth that is the crux of the issue and France is in much the same position as other European nations, including Britain. Investors ask how it will grow its way out of the crisis when demand in Europe is flat and its goods cost too much to sell in other parts of the world.Angela Merkel has denied the French threatened to quit. Her advisers believe the story of Sarkozy's table-thumping, sourced to figures in the Spanish government, is more likely to come from the mouths of rumour-mongering hedge funds that have placed bets on the collapse of the euro. Yet it could be that her nose is out of joint because she wants to be the first to quit. Certainly there is a strong sense inside Germany that it should stop bailing out profligate southern European nations. Rumours abound \u2013 probably put about by hedge funds \u2013 that Merkel is printing German marks in preparation for a split.German banks hold billions of euros of Greek debt. Around half the mortgage loans raised by Spanish construction companies to build flats on the Costas were funded by German banks. Spaniards and Greeks buy Audis and VWs by the truckload. In short, the German economy is inextricably linked to Europe. The savings of ordinary Germans are invested in things that are now worth much less than they were: much of their cash was behind property speculation in Greece, Ireland and Spain. Without German loans, a property boom would not have happened. Most economists argue the euro countries need to stand together or they will fall apart \u2013 and fall a long way.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "Financial crisis", "Economics", "World news", "Germany", "Business", "France", "Europe"], "title": "Q&A: Could France leave the eurozone?"},{"date": "2010-05-04T18:33:17Z", "country": "france", "content": "Sixteen Maori heads \u2013 mummified, tattooed and held for decades as precious artefacts in France \u2013 are to be sent home after MPs in Paris's national assembly voted tonight to return them to New Zealand.Three years after authorities in Rouen offered to repatriate a warrior head as \"atonement\" for colonial-era crimes \u2013 and 135 years after that head arrived in the city's National History Museum \u2013 the French parliament voted almost unanimously to relinquish ownership of the remains. \"You do not build a culture on trafficking. You build a culture on respect and on exchange,\" said the culture minister, Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterrand, approving the legislation.His words were a far cry from those of the ministry in 2007, when it stepped in to postpone Rouen's repatriation bid, citing concern that the official procedure for the \"declassification\" of a national possession had not been followed.Observers suggested the government was afraid that any move to return a work of art from a French museum to its native land would set a dangerous precedent for a country bursting with antique treasures and colonial-era loot.However, perhaps as a result of a string of countries \u2013 including the US \u2013 meeting New Zealand's demands for a return of Maori heads in recent years, Paris has shown itself to be more willing to wipe its slate clean with countries and communities who want their artefacts back.The legislation \u2013 drawn up by a member of the Nouveau Centre party, Catherine Morin-Desailly, and voted into law by all but eight MPs \u2013 means the Maori heads will be returned to New Zealand without further delay.As well as the one in Rouen, there are known to be seven of the objects in storage at the Mus\u00e9e du Quai Branly, and several others scattered across the country. Campaigners estimate that, of about 500 of the heads that travelled all over the world during the 17th, 18th and 19th centuries, more than 322 have been returned.What started as an ancient Maori practise of preserving the heads of fallen warriors spiralled out of control during the colonial era, when demand for the tattooed body parts soared and suppliers took to barbarous methods to keep their wealthy western customers satisfied.Historians say that while some heads belonged to fighters who were killed deliberately for trade, others were those of Maori slaves who had been forcibly tattooed and murdered.The crux of the debate was whether the heads could be considered to be museum items when they were human remains.Speaking before the vote last week, French MPs from all parties welcomed the move to return the \"sensitive cultural material\". \"These remains have awaited a dignified burial, in accordance with Maori rights, for too long,\" said Mich\u00e8le Tabarot, head of the commission for cultural affairs at the national assembly.Henri de Raincourt, minister for parliamentary relations, said France had not shown itself to be \"overly eager\" to return the heads, but that it was a duty that needed to be done. \"From a ritual showing the respect of a tribe and family toward their dead, the mummified heads became the object of a particularly barbaric trade due to the curiosity of travellers and European collectors,\" he said.The Maori case is not the first thorny debate surrounding exotic cultural treasures in France's esteemed collections. In December the Louvre handed back five fragments of frescoes to Egypt, while in 2002 the parliament gave the go-ahead for the return of a South African woman known derogatively to western audiences as \"the Hottentot Venus\".", "tags": ["Heritage", "France", "World news", "Museums", "Culture", "New Zealand", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Maori warrior heads' repatriation approved by France"},{"date": "2010-08-31T18:47:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy's government today launched a robust defence of its widely criticised crackdown on Gypsy immigrants in France.A week before convening a meeting of several European interior ministers in Paris to drum up support for the hardline policy and to seek to extend it across the EU, senior French officials told the European commission in Brussels that the demolition of Roma camps and the expulsions of hundreds of families, mainly from Romania, were in line with freedom of movement laws inside the EU.\"I explained the principles on which we acted,\" said Eric Besson, France's immigration minister, after meeting Viviane Reding and Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, the European commissioners for human rights and policing. \"Everything is in total conformity with European law, the 2004 [freedom of movement EU] directive, French law and the republican principles of France.\"Reding is to report to her fellow European commissioners tomorrow on the political and legal impact of the Sarkozy anti-Roma campaign. Officials in Brussels have been squirming with unease over the past week when pressed to respond to the crackdown, although Reding was strongly critical of the French.\"Nobody should face expulsion just for being Roma,\" she said. \"Some of the rhetoric that has been used in some member states in the past weeks has been openly discriminatory and partly inflammatory.\" But Besson and Pierre Lellouche, the French Europe minister, delivered a trenchant defence of a policy that has split the French cabinet, triggered criticism from former Sarkozy allies and been denounced by the Vatican, the United Nations, human rights campaigners and some of the main political parties in the European parliament.Targeting the Romanian government, Besson argued that no country in the EU could forfeit its welfare duties and dump its citizens on another member state. Lellouche said that France contributed \u20ac5bn net a year to the EU budget while Romania received \u20ac4bn, but spent a mere 0.4% of that on its large Gypsy minority.The authorities have deported more than 8,000 Roma to Romania and Bulgaria this year, including almost 300 last week. Despite the criticism, Besson signalled a tougher line, with new laws being drafted making it easier to kick people out. He is strongly supported by Silvio Berlusconi's government in Italy, which is also pressing EU governments to bypass the commission and agree to a bigger crackdown.The French have convened interior ministry officials from Italy, Britain, Germany, Spain and Belgium, suggesting the aim is to fashion an alliance of big EU governments. The Belgians, holding the EU presidency, have been reluctant to attend for fear of legitimising the crackdown. Malmstr\u00f6m was initially not invited until her boss, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, the commission president, phoned Sarkozy.", "tags": ["Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "European commission", "European Union", "Law"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsions"},{"date": "2010-08-31T18:47:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy's government today launched a robust defence of its widely criticised crackdown on Gypsy immigrants in France.A week before convening a meeting of several European interior ministers in Paris to drum up support for the hardline policy and to seek to extend it across the EU, senior French officials told the European commission in Brussels that the demolition of Roma camps and the expulsions of hundreds of families, mainly from Romania, were in line with freedom of movement laws inside the EU.\"I explained the principles on which we acted,\" said Eric Besson, France's immigration minister, after meeting Viviane Reding and Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, the European commissioners for human rights and policing. \"Everything is in total conformity with European law, the 2004 [freedom of movement EU] directive, French law and the republican principles of France.\"Reding is to report to her fellow European commissioners tomorrow on the political and legal impact of the Sarkozy anti-Roma campaign. Officials in Brussels have been squirming with unease over the past week when pressed to respond to the crackdown, although Reding was strongly critical of the French.\"Nobody should face expulsion just for being Roma,\" she said. \"Some of the rhetoric that has been used in some member states in the past weeks has been openly discriminatory and partly inflammatory.\" But Besson and Pierre Lellouche, the French Europe minister, delivered a trenchant defence of a policy that has split the French cabinet, triggered criticism from former Sarkozy allies and been denounced by the Vatican, the United Nations, human rights campaigners and some of the main political parties in the European parliament.Targeting the Romanian government, Besson argued that no country in the EU could forfeit its welfare duties and dump its citizens on another member state. Lellouche said that France contributed \u20ac5bn net a year to the EU budget while Romania received \u20ac4bn, but spent a mere 0.4% of that on its large Gypsy minority.The authorities have deported more than 8,000 Roma to Romania and Bulgaria this year, including almost 300 last week. Despite the criticism, Besson signalled a tougher line, with new laws being drafted making it easier to kick people out. He is strongly supported by Silvio Berlusconi's government in Italy, which is also pressing EU governments to bypass the commission and agree to a bigger crackdown.The French have convened interior ministry officials from Italy, Britain, Germany, Spain and Belgium, suggesting the aim is to fashion an alliance of big EU governments. The Belgians, holding the EU presidency, have been reluctant to attend for fear of legitimising the crackdown. Malmstr\u00f6m was initially not invited until her boss, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, the commission president, phoned Sarkozy.", "tags": ["Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "European commission", "European Union", "Law"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsions"},{"date": "2010-07-19T14:49:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "From science fiction writers to poets and playwrights, would-be French authors are lining up to take part in France's first venture into crowdfunded literature.Launched this spring by publisher \u00c9ditions du Public, the initiative \u2013 slogan: \"I invest in what I want to read\" \u2013 has already received 80 manuscripts. Sixteen have been merited good enough to make it onto the publisher's website, from Nathalie Tavignot's Croissant de lune (Crescent Moon), in which a series of murders occur in a village whose inhabitants have just woken from a long sleep and remember nothing, to Ghislain Hammer's poetry collection Les colosses nus (The Naked Colossi).The publishers are now looking for co-editors to help fund publication of the books. Each co-editor must invest \u20ac11 in their chosen title, and will then be able to discuss the book with its author on \u00c9ditions du Public's forum, following each stage as it is written. Each title has six months to sign up 2,000 co-editors and some are already proving more popular than others: Tavignot's thriller has 45 subscribers, while Hammer has just two.Once the 2,000 threshold has been reached, an editor at \u00c9ditions du Public will go over the text and layout with the author. The book will then be sold online and through bookshops, with each co-editor able to recoup \"up to eight times the amount of their initial subscription\"\u00a0depending on sales, as well as receiving a free copy of the book they have edited.\"We want, thanks to crowdfunding, to give the chance to every author to be published,\" said Laurence Broussal at \u00c9ditions du Public. \"Thanks to our website, authors have a real communication platform to make themselves known to internet users and to meet their public. But we want this to be without risk: the internet co-editor is refunded with 100% of their output, and the author gets back their manuscript, if the book is not published.\"Broussal said that \u00c9ditions du Public was the first publisher to utilise crowdfunding in France, although the concept has already been experimented with in music and film. The publisher has already received around 1,000 subscriptions across all its titles after starting to recruit co-editors at the beginning of July, and hopes to publish its first book by the end of the year.", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "France pioneers 'crowdfunded' publishing"},{"date": "2010-08-31T18:47:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy's government today launched a robust defence of its widely criticised crackdown on Gypsy immigrants in France.A week before convening a meeting of several European interior ministers in Paris to drum up support for the hardline policy and to seek to extend it across the EU, senior French officials told the European commission in Brussels that the demolition of Roma camps and the expulsions of hundreds of families, mainly from Romania, were in line with freedom of movement laws inside the EU.\"I explained the principles on which we acted,\" said Eric Besson, France's immigration minister, after meeting Viviane Reding and Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, the European commissioners for human rights and policing. \"Everything is in total conformity with European law, the 2004 [freedom of movement EU] directive, French law and the republican principles of France.\"Reding is to report to her fellow European commissioners tomorrow on the political and legal impact of the Sarkozy anti-Roma campaign. Officials in Brussels have been squirming with unease over the past week when pressed to respond to the crackdown, although Reding was strongly critical of the French.\"Nobody should face expulsion just for being Roma,\" she said. \"Some of the rhetoric that has been used in some member states in the past weeks has been openly discriminatory and partly inflammatory.\" But Besson and Pierre Lellouche, the French Europe minister, delivered a trenchant defence of a policy that has split the French cabinet, triggered criticism from former Sarkozy allies and been denounced by the Vatican, the United Nations, human rights campaigners and some of the main political parties in the European parliament.Targeting the Romanian government, Besson argued that no country in the EU could forfeit its welfare duties and dump its citizens on another member state. Lellouche said that France contributed \u20ac5bn net a year to the EU budget while Romania received \u20ac4bn, but spent a mere 0.4% of that on its large Gypsy minority.The authorities have deported more than 8,000 Roma to Romania and Bulgaria this year, including almost 300 last week. Despite the criticism, Besson signalled a tougher line, with new laws being drafted making it easier to kick people out. He is strongly supported by Silvio Berlusconi's government in Italy, which is also pressing EU governments to bypass the commission and agree to a bigger crackdown.The French have convened interior ministry officials from Italy, Britain, Germany, Spain and Belgium, suggesting the aim is to fashion an alliance of big EU governments. The Belgians, holding the EU presidency, have been reluctant to attend for fear of legitimising the crackdown. Malmstr\u00f6m was initially not invited until her boss, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, the commission president, phoned Sarkozy.", "tags": ["Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "European commission", "European Union", "Law"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsions"},{"date": "2010-07-19T14:49:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "From science fiction writers to poets and playwrights, would-be French authors are lining up to take part in France's first venture into crowdfunded literature.Launched this spring by publisher \u00c9ditions du Public, the initiative \u2013 slogan: \"I invest in what I want to read\" \u2013 has already received 80 manuscripts. Sixteen have been merited good enough to make it onto the publisher's website, from Nathalie Tavignot's Croissant de lune (Crescent Moon), in which a series of murders occur in a village whose inhabitants have just woken from a long sleep and remember nothing, to Ghislain Hammer's poetry collection Les colosses nus (The Naked Colossi).The publishers are now looking for co-editors to help fund publication of the books. Each co-editor must invest \u20ac11 in their chosen title, and will then be able to discuss the book with its author on \u00c9ditions du Public's forum, following each stage as it is written. Each title has six months to sign up 2,000 co-editors and some are already proving more popular than others: Tavignot's thriller has 45 subscribers, while Hammer has just two.Once the 2,000 threshold has been reached, an editor at \u00c9ditions du Public will go over the text and layout with the author. The book will then be sold online and through bookshops, with each co-editor able to recoup \"up to eight times the amount of their initial subscription\"\u00a0depending on sales, as well as receiving a free copy of the book they have edited.\"We want, thanks to crowdfunding, to give the chance to every author to be published,\" said Laurence Broussal at \u00c9ditions du Public. \"Thanks to our website, authors have a real communication platform to make themselves known to internet users and to meet their public. But we want this to be without risk: the internet co-editor is refunded with 100% of their output, and the author gets back their manuscript, if the book is not published.\"Broussal said that \u00c9ditions du Public was the first publisher to utilise crowdfunding in France, although the concept has already been experimented with in music and film. The publisher has already received around 1,000 subscriptions across all its titles after starting to recruit co-editors at the beginning of July, and hopes to publish its first book by the end of the year.", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "France pioneers 'crowdfunded' publishing"},{"date": "2010-09-15T13:03:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France today angrily defended its controversial Roma crackdown, attacking the European commission for comparing the policy to second world war deportations and for failing to address \"the mother [country] of human rights\" with sufficient gravity.Pierre Lellouche, the French European affairs minister who yesterday found himself in the firing line from Viviane Reding, the European commissioner for justice, said he could not allow her to compare \"the France of 2010 [to] the France of Vichy\".\"The tone she took \u2026 is not the manner one uses to address a great state like France, which is the mother of human rights,\" he told French radio. \"We are not the naughty pupil of the class whom the teacher tells off and we are not the criminal before the prosecutor.\"Lellouche, who was told yesterday that France could face legal action over the summer crackdown, added that he had spoken to Reding this morning and told her he would like to think \"her passion [had] exceeded her rationale\".\"A nest egg, a plane ticket going to their native country within the EU: these are not death camps, these are not gas chambers,\" he added, referring to the one-off payment of \u20ac300 (\u00a3250) per adult made by French authorities to Roma returning to their home country on so-called \"voluntary\" return flights.Lellouche's strident defence of the policy, which has seen nearly 1,000 Roma expelled and dozens of \"non-authorised\" camps broken up since the beginning of August, was echoed in more mild language by the Elys\u00e9e. Insisting there was no desire to further the \"pointless controversy\" with Brussels, it added, in an oblique reference to the second world war comparison: \"However, certain comments are quite simply not acceptable.\"On French radio, Eric Besson, Nicolas Sarkozy's minister for immigration and national identity, criticised Reding's reference to Jewish deportations in the 1940s, calling it \"shocking\" and \"anachronistic\".The U-turn by the European commission, which came after weeks of criticism by human rights activists for failing to take a tough line with Paris, came in the aftermath of the leak of a French government document showing that the Roma were the explicit target of the crackdown. The government, which was deeply embarrassed by the leak, has since modified the order to remove all reference to a particular group of people.\"There was a mistake in the circular; it has been corrected. The end. Done,\" said Benoist Apparu, a junior minister and member of Sarkozy's rightwing UMP party.Among French critics of the Roma crackdown, however, the criticism from Brussels came as proof of their country's tarnished image. \"It is a true disgrace for men and women to be hunted down in our country just because they are of a certain ethnicity and not because they have committed crimes,\" said Martine Aubry, leader of the opposition Socialist party.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Race issues", "European Union", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsion policy"},{"date": "2010-08-31T18:47:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy's government today launched a robust defence of its widely criticised crackdown on Gypsy immigrants in France.A week before convening a meeting of several European interior ministers in Paris to drum up support for the hardline policy and to seek to extend it across the EU, senior French officials told the European commission in Brussels that the demolition of Roma camps and the expulsions of hundreds of families, mainly from Romania, were in line with freedom of movement laws inside the EU.\"I explained the principles on which we acted,\" said Eric Besson, France's immigration minister, after meeting Viviane Reding and Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, the European commissioners for human rights and policing. \"Everything is in total conformity with European law, the 2004 [freedom of movement EU] directive, French law and the republican principles of France.\"Reding is to report to her fellow European commissioners tomorrow on the political and legal impact of the Sarkozy anti-Roma campaign. Officials in Brussels have been squirming with unease over the past week when pressed to respond to the crackdown, although Reding was strongly critical of the French.\"Nobody should face expulsion just for being Roma,\" she said. \"Some of the rhetoric that has been used in some member states in the past weeks has been openly discriminatory and partly inflammatory.\" But Besson and Pierre Lellouche, the French Europe minister, delivered a trenchant defence of a policy that has split the French cabinet, triggered criticism from former Sarkozy allies and been denounced by the Vatican, the United Nations, human rights campaigners and some of the main political parties in the European parliament.Targeting the Romanian government, Besson argued that no country in the EU could forfeit its welfare duties and dump its citizens on another member state. Lellouche said that France contributed \u20ac5bn net a year to the EU budget while Romania received \u20ac4bn, but spent a mere 0.4% of that on its large Gypsy minority.The authorities have deported more than 8,000 Roma to Romania and Bulgaria this year, including almost 300 last week. Despite the criticism, Besson signalled a tougher line, with new laws being drafted making it easier to kick people out. He is strongly supported by Silvio Berlusconi's government in Italy, which is also pressing EU governments to bypass the commission and agree to a bigger crackdown.The French have convened interior ministry officials from Italy, Britain, Germany, Spain and Belgium, suggesting the aim is to fashion an alliance of big EU governments. The Belgians, holding the EU presidency, have been reluctant to attend for fear of legitimising the crackdown. Malmstr\u00f6m was initially not invited until her boss, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, the commission president, phoned Sarkozy.", "tags": ["Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "European commission", "European Union", "Law"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsions"},{"date": "2010-07-19T14:49:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "From science fiction writers to poets and playwrights, would-be French authors are lining up to take part in France's first venture into crowdfunded literature.Launched this spring by publisher \u00c9ditions du Public, the initiative \u2013 slogan: \"I invest in what I want to read\" \u2013 has already received 80 manuscripts. Sixteen have been merited good enough to make it onto the publisher's website, from Nathalie Tavignot's Croissant de lune (Crescent Moon), in which a series of murders occur in a village whose inhabitants have just woken from a long sleep and remember nothing, to Ghislain Hammer's poetry collection Les colosses nus (The Naked Colossi).The publishers are now looking for co-editors to help fund publication of the books. Each co-editor must invest \u20ac11 in their chosen title, and will then be able to discuss the book with its author on \u00c9ditions du Public's forum, following each stage as it is written. Each title has six months to sign up 2,000 co-editors and some are already proving more popular than others: Tavignot's thriller has 45 subscribers, while Hammer has just two.Once the 2,000 threshold has been reached, an editor at \u00c9ditions du Public will go over the text and layout with the author. The book will then be sold online and through bookshops, with each co-editor able to recoup \"up to eight times the amount of their initial subscription\"\u00a0depending on sales, as well as receiving a free copy of the book they have edited.\"We want, thanks to crowdfunding, to give the chance to every author to be published,\" said Laurence Broussal at \u00c9ditions du Public. \"Thanks to our website, authors have a real communication platform to make themselves known to internet users and to meet their public. But we want this to be without risk: the internet co-editor is refunded with 100% of their output, and the author gets back their manuscript, if the book is not published.\"Broussal said that \u00c9ditions du Public was the first publisher to utilise crowdfunding in France, although the concept has already been experimented with in music and film. The publisher has already received around 1,000 subscriptions across all its titles after starting to recruit co-editors at the beginning of July, and hopes to publish its first book by the end of the year.", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "France pioneers 'crowdfunded' publishing"},{"date": "2010-09-15T13:03:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France today angrily defended its controversial Roma crackdown, attacking the European commission for comparing the policy to second world war deportations and for failing to address \"the mother [country] of human rights\" with sufficient gravity.Pierre Lellouche, the French European affairs minister who yesterday found himself in the firing line from Viviane Reding, the European commissioner for justice, said he could not allow her to compare \"the France of 2010 [to] the France of Vichy\".\"The tone she took \u2026 is not the manner one uses to address a great state like France, which is the mother of human rights,\" he told French radio. \"We are not the naughty pupil of the class whom the teacher tells off and we are not the criminal before the prosecutor.\"Lellouche, who was told yesterday that France could face legal action over the summer crackdown, added that he had spoken to Reding this morning and told her he would like to think \"her passion [had] exceeded her rationale\".\"A nest egg, a plane ticket going to their native country within the EU: these are not death camps, these are not gas chambers,\" he added, referring to the one-off payment of \u20ac300 (\u00a3250) per adult made by French authorities to Roma returning to their home country on so-called \"voluntary\" return flights.Lellouche's strident defence of the policy, which has seen nearly 1,000 Roma expelled and dozens of \"non-authorised\" camps broken up since the beginning of August, was echoed in more mild language by the Elys\u00e9e. Insisting there was no desire to further the \"pointless controversy\" with Brussels, it added, in an oblique reference to the second world war comparison: \"However, certain comments are quite simply not acceptable.\"On French radio, Eric Besson, Nicolas Sarkozy's minister for immigration and national identity, criticised Reding's reference to Jewish deportations in the 1940s, calling it \"shocking\" and \"anachronistic\".The U-turn by the European commission, which came after weeks of criticism by human rights activists for failing to take a tough line with Paris, came in the aftermath of the leak of a French government document showing that the Roma were the explicit target of the crackdown. The government, which was deeply embarrassed by the leak, has since modified the order to remove all reference to a particular group of people.\"There was a mistake in the circular; it has been corrected. The end. Done,\" said Benoist Apparu, a junior minister and member of Sarkozy's rightwing UMP party.Among French critics of the Roma crackdown, however, the criticism from Brussels came as proof of their country's tarnished image. \"It is a true disgrace for men and women to be hunted down in our country just because they are of a certain ethnicity and not because they have committed crimes,\" said Martine Aubry, leader of the opposition Socialist party.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Race issues", "European Union", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsion policy"},{"date": "2010-08-31T23:45:04Z", "country": "france", "content": "The death of the double Tour de France winner Laurent Fignon yesterday from cancer at the age of 50 drew tributes from right across French society and sport, from the president Nicolas Sarkozy to his former literature teacher, the organisers of the Tour itself, and former rivals such as the five-times winner Bernard Hinault. As an honest man who never flinched from self-criticism, Fignon would have smiled wryly at such a public farewell.An almost painfully private man, Fignon was defined \u2013 very much against his will \u2013 by the very public way in which he lost the 1989 Tour de France, a race which is still widely considered the greatest in the event's 107-year history.He lost by just eight seconds in the final stage, the Tour's narrowest margin, to the American Greg LeMond after beginning the 24.5km time trial to the Champs-Elys\u00e9es with a lead that seemed comfortable. He was never quite the same athlete again, and for years he was unwilling to go back to the scene of the defeat.Nearly 16 years after quitting professional cycling to work initially as an event organiser and later as a television summariser, Fignon had announced in spring 2009 that he was suffering from pancreatic cancer which had spread to his intestinal tract.He reported on the 2009 Tour de France for French television in between sessions of chemotherapy and returned to the race this summer to commentate when his strength permitted. He was admitted to hospital two weeks ago suffering from pulmonary complications.\"He fought to the end,\" said his close friend, his former masseur Alain Gallopin, now a manager at Lance Armstrong's Radioshack team.\"[Monday] morning, we could feel he was still fighting, he was asking for information about his treatment. Then his state worsened and he slipped away. For a year and a half a lot of different cures have been tried but none has worked.\"Fignon was expected to take a place among the greats of the sport such as Eddy Merckx and Hinault when he dominated the 1984 Tour de France in the most crushing style, taking five stages and finishing over 14 minutes ahead of the \"Badger\" who had been absent when Fignon rode to his first Tour win a year earlier. \"I will win five or six, and then I'll quit,\" he said afterwards. But instead the Parisian spent the rest of his career attempting to regain his old form after achilles tendon operations in spring and autumn 1985.There were sporadic triumphs, such as a meticulously planned and executed brace of victories in the Milan-San Remo Classic in 1988 and 1989, and the 1989 Giro d'Italia. But his autobiography published in France last year made it clear that after his two years of grace, he fought a painful battle against the limits of his body. Fignon's book spared no one \u2013 including some of those who paid tribute yesterday \u2013 but least of all himself, as he admitted to doping during his career with cortisone and amphetamines.William Fotheringham is the translator of Laurent Fignon's autobiography We Were Young and Carefree, published by Yellow Jersey Press this June", "tags": ["Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "France pays tribute to Tour de France legend Laurent Fignon"},{"date": "2010-08-31T18:47:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy's government today launched a robust defence of its widely criticised crackdown on Gypsy immigrants in France.A week before convening a meeting of several European interior ministers in Paris to drum up support for the hardline policy and to seek to extend it across the EU, senior French officials told the European commission in Brussels that the demolition of Roma camps and the expulsions of hundreds of families, mainly from Romania, were in line with freedom of movement laws inside the EU.\"I explained the principles on which we acted,\" said Eric Besson, France's immigration minister, after meeting Viviane Reding and Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, the European commissioners for human rights and policing. \"Everything is in total conformity with European law, the 2004 [freedom of movement EU] directive, French law and the republican principles of France.\"Reding is to report to her fellow European commissioners tomorrow on the political and legal impact of the Sarkozy anti-Roma campaign. Officials in Brussels have been squirming with unease over the past week when pressed to respond to the crackdown, although Reding was strongly critical of the French.\"Nobody should face expulsion just for being Roma,\" she said. \"Some of the rhetoric that has been used in some member states in the past weeks has been openly discriminatory and partly inflammatory.\" But Besson and Pierre Lellouche, the French Europe minister, delivered a trenchant defence of a policy that has split the French cabinet, triggered criticism from former Sarkozy allies and been denounced by the Vatican, the United Nations, human rights campaigners and some of the main political parties in the European parliament.Targeting the Romanian government, Besson argued that no country in the EU could forfeit its welfare duties and dump its citizens on another member state. Lellouche said that France contributed \u20ac5bn net a year to the EU budget while Romania received \u20ac4bn, but spent a mere 0.4% of that on its large Gypsy minority.The authorities have deported more than 8,000 Roma to Romania and Bulgaria this year, including almost 300 last week. Despite the criticism, Besson signalled a tougher line, with new laws being drafted making it easier to kick people out. He is strongly supported by Silvio Berlusconi's government in Italy, which is also pressing EU governments to bypass the commission and agree to a bigger crackdown.The French have convened interior ministry officials from Italy, Britain, Germany, Spain and Belgium, suggesting the aim is to fashion an alliance of big EU governments. The Belgians, holding the EU presidency, have been reluctant to attend for fear of legitimising the crackdown. Malmstr\u00f6m was initially not invited until her boss, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, the commission president, phoned Sarkozy.", "tags": ["Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "European commission", "European Union", "Law"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsions"},{"date": "2010-07-19T14:49:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "From science fiction writers to poets and playwrights, would-be French authors are lining up to take part in France's first venture into crowdfunded literature.Launched this spring by publisher \u00c9ditions du Public, the initiative \u2013 slogan: \"I invest in what I want to read\" \u2013 has already received 80 manuscripts. Sixteen have been merited good enough to make it onto the publisher's website, from Nathalie Tavignot's Croissant de lune (Crescent Moon), in which a series of murders occur in a village whose inhabitants have just woken from a long sleep and remember nothing, to Ghislain Hammer's poetry collection Les colosses nus (The Naked Colossi).The publishers are now looking for co-editors to help fund publication of the books. Each co-editor must invest \u20ac11 in their chosen title, and will then be able to discuss the book with its author on \u00c9ditions du Public's forum, following each stage as it is written. Each title has six months to sign up 2,000 co-editors and some are already proving more popular than others: Tavignot's thriller has 45 subscribers, while Hammer has just two.Once the 2,000 threshold has been reached, an editor at \u00c9ditions du Public will go over the text and layout with the author. The book will then be sold online and through bookshops, with each co-editor able to recoup \"up to eight times the amount of their initial subscription\"\u00a0depending on sales, as well as receiving a free copy of the book they have edited.\"We want, thanks to crowdfunding, to give the chance to every author to be published,\" said Laurence Broussal at \u00c9ditions du Public. \"Thanks to our website, authors have a real communication platform to make themselves known to internet users and to meet their public. But we want this to be without risk: the internet co-editor is refunded with 100% of their output, and the author gets back their manuscript, if the book is not published.\"Broussal said that \u00c9ditions du Public was the first publisher to utilise crowdfunding in France, although the concept has already been experimented with in music and film. The publisher has already received around 1,000 subscriptions across all its titles after starting to recruit co-editors at the beginning of July, and hopes to publish its first book by the end of the year.", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "France pioneers 'crowdfunded' publishing"},{"date": "2010-09-15T13:03:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France today angrily defended its controversial Roma crackdown, attacking the European commission for comparing the policy to second world war deportations and for failing to address \"the mother [country] of human rights\" with sufficient gravity.Pierre Lellouche, the French European affairs minister who yesterday found himself in the firing line from Viviane Reding, the European commissioner for justice, said he could not allow her to compare \"the France of 2010 [to] the France of Vichy\".\"The tone she took \u2026 is not the manner one uses to address a great state like France, which is the mother of human rights,\" he told French radio. \"We are not the naughty pupil of the class whom the teacher tells off and we are not the criminal before the prosecutor.\"Lellouche, who was told yesterday that France could face legal action over the summer crackdown, added that he had spoken to Reding this morning and told her he would like to think \"her passion [had] exceeded her rationale\".\"A nest egg, a plane ticket going to their native country within the EU: these are not death camps, these are not gas chambers,\" he added, referring to the one-off payment of \u20ac300 (\u00a3250) per adult made by French authorities to Roma returning to their home country on so-called \"voluntary\" return flights.Lellouche's strident defence of the policy, which has seen nearly 1,000 Roma expelled and dozens of \"non-authorised\" camps broken up since the beginning of August, was echoed in more mild language by the Elys\u00e9e. Insisting there was no desire to further the \"pointless controversy\" with Brussels, it added, in an oblique reference to the second world war comparison: \"However, certain comments are quite simply not acceptable.\"On French radio, Eric Besson, Nicolas Sarkozy's minister for immigration and national identity, criticised Reding's reference to Jewish deportations in the 1940s, calling it \"shocking\" and \"anachronistic\".The U-turn by the European commission, which came after weeks of criticism by human rights activists for failing to take a tough line with Paris, came in the aftermath of the leak of a French government document showing that the Roma were the explicit target of the crackdown. The government, which was deeply embarrassed by the leak, has since modified the order to remove all reference to a particular group of people.\"There was a mistake in the circular; it has been corrected. The end. Done,\" said Benoist Apparu, a junior minister and member of Sarkozy's rightwing UMP party.Among French critics of the Roma crackdown, however, the criticism from Brussels came as proof of their country's tarnished image. \"It is a true disgrace for men and women to be hunted down in our country just because they are of a certain ethnicity and not because they have committed crimes,\" said Martine Aubry, leader of the opposition Socialist party.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Race issues", "European Union", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsion policy"},{"date": "2010-08-31T23:45:04Z", "country": "france", "content": "The death of the double Tour de France winner Laurent Fignon yesterday from cancer at the age of 50 drew tributes from right across French society and sport, from the president Nicolas Sarkozy to his former literature teacher, the organisers of the Tour itself, and former rivals such as the five-times winner Bernard Hinault. As an honest man who never flinched from self-criticism, Fignon would have smiled wryly at such a public farewell.An almost painfully private man, Fignon was defined \u2013 very much against his will \u2013 by the very public way in which he lost the 1989 Tour de France, a race which is still widely considered the greatest in the event's 107-year history.He lost by just eight seconds in the final stage, the Tour's narrowest margin, to the American Greg LeMond after beginning the 24.5km time trial to the Champs-Elys\u00e9es with a lead that seemed comfortable. He was never quite the same athlete again, and for years he was unwilling to go back to the scene of the defeat.Nearly 16 years after quitting professional cycling to work initially as an event organiser and later as a television summariser, Fignon had announced in spring 2009 that he was suffering from pancreatic cancer which had spread to his intestinal tract.He reported on the 2009 Tour de France for French television in between sessions of chemotherapy and returned to the race this summer to commentate when his strength permitted. He was admitted to hospital two weeks ago suffering from pulmonary complications.\"He fought to the end,\" said his close friend, his former masseur Alain Gallopin, now a manager at Lance Armstrong's Radioshack team.\"[Monday] morning, we could feel he was still fighting, he was asking for information about his treatment. Then his state worsened and he slipped away. For a year and a half a lot of different cures have been tried but none has worked.\"Fignon was expected to take a place among the greats of the sport such as Eddy Merckx and Hinault when he dominated the 1984 Tour de France in the most crushing style, taking five stages and finishing over 14 minutes ahead of the \"Badger\" who had been absent when Fignon rode to his first Tour win a year earlier. \"I will win five or six, and then I'll quit,\" he said afterwards. But instead the Parisian spent the rest of his career attempting to regain his old form after achilles tendon operations in spring and autumn 1985.There were sporadic triumphs, such as a meticulously planned and executed brace of victories in the Milan-San Remo Classic in 1988 and 1989, and the 1989 Giro d'Italia. But his autobiography published in France last year made it clear that after his two years of grace, he fought a painful battle against the limits of his body. Fignon's book spared no one \u2013 including some of those who paid tribute yesterday \u2013 but least of all himself, as he admitted to doping during his career with cortisone and amphetamines.William Fotheringham is the translator of Laurent Fignon's autobiography We Were Young and Carefree, published by Yellow Jersey Press this June", "tags": ["Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "France pays tribute to Tour de France legend Laurent Fignon"},{"date": "2010-07-13T09:00:11Z", "country": "france", "content": "Today members of the French parliament will finally cast their votes on the infamous law banning the voile int\u00e9gral \u2013 the burqa, sitar or khimar \u2013 that has been making the headlines for the past year. In the meantime, the anti-burqa campaign has reached Belgium, Spain and Italy, and last week British MP Phillip Hollobone also expressed support for similar measures in this country.Is all this an indication that feelings have changed across Europe, five years after 7/7? That Europeans have become more \"Islamophobic\"? Probably not. It's rather that things have become particularly tangled and Islam has become an easy card to play. As a recent editorial in Le Monde Diplomatique suggested, the French government is busy sorting out its finances and reforming pensions. The burqa debate is a convenient way to distract the public from unwelcome economic cuts.It is also curious to note that, whereas Belgian MPs have been unanimous in demanding that their country should also ban the voile int\u00e9gral for the past four years or so, they have been unable to agree on how to form a stable government. Ironically, the anti-burqa bill was approved by the lower chamber of the Belgian parliament on the same day as the latest in a series of government crises; as a consequence the law-making process stalled, and the bill never went to the senate for discussion. Although the Belgian situation came to our attention in Britain unexpectedly, tensions about the veil and Islam have been going on for almost a decade there, especially in the Francophone part of the country, which tends to be influenced by the stricter French approach to la\u00efcit\u00e9.Although French MPs, left and right alike, have repeatedly insisted on their support for the law, the context to their decision is one of great controversy. Not only are French Muslims frustrated and furious but the Conseil d'\u00c9tat gave official advice, in May, not to pursue a total ban on the burqa in public spaces, and deemed it legally \"unfounded\". A week ago the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe also issued a unanimous resolution condemning a general law, although it stated that legal restrictions may be justified \"for security purposes, or where the public or professional functions of individuals require their religious neutrality, or that their face can be seen\". It also recognised that \"no woman should be compelled to wear religious apparel by her community or family\" and that European governments should educate Muslim women on their rights and freedoms.These mixed feelings about how to respond to the full veil are symptomatic of a not-fully-explicable uneasiness with Islam and the growing religious plurality of Europe. Behind this is probably an inability to deal with bigger issues such as the consequences of globalisation, migration, the financial crisis, and a crisis of national identities. Places in which the veil was not an issue until recently have now been drawn into the debate. With my research team I recently completed fieldwork with Muslim women in Spain and Italy. We clearly detected fear and paranoia among our respondents. Until recently, when questioned about the situation of Islam in Italy I would answer that there were many problems, primarily to do with immigration law, but that no, the veil was definitely not an issue, if anything because Italians and Spaniards were used to seeing and interacting with nuns with their veils everywhere. Unfortunately the situation has now reversed. The \"non-issue\" of the veil has been imported and become one that polarises people.Spanish local authorities recently put forward legislation (which has nevertheless attracted the support of national politicians including from the left) against veiling; but there had been concerns for some time. Most of our interviewees in Zaragoza mentioned cases of women forced to take off their headscarves in order to be able to accept jobs. In Turin, many well-educated and articulate Muslim women of Moroccan origin complained of how they would be treated with disrespect, as if they could not understand, read or write, when they went to public offices for paperwork pertaining citizenship or their permission to stay. And a young Italian convert told us how frustrated she felt when, the moment she started wearing the hijab, she noted that people suddenly switched to the tu (\"you\" singular) form in conversation with her and insisted she could not possibly be Italian, whereas before she would be treated with the more formal lei (\"you\" plural) form.Many Muslims have become very anxious about these developments and Middle Eastern governments and media outlets often emphasise the apparent anti-Islamic attitudes of Europe. I am not sure that the situation has deteriorated all that much, however. Muslims in Britain complain about the negative depiction of Islam in the public domain but Muslims in France wish their country was as free as the UK. Muslims in Italy are tired of being treated as alien immigrants, but at least there have been no draconian counter-terrorism measures or stop and search programmes such as those in the UK. The grass is always greener on the other side.As we know, very few Muslim women wear the burqa or the niqab; many Muslims are in fact opposed to these covering practices; and certain security issues brought up in support of the burqa ban are not totally unfounded (Yassin Omar, the 21/7 bomber allegedly fled London dressed in a burqa; several suicide bombers in Iraq \u2013 including a female Belgian convert \u2013 were covered; Italy has had a law banning covering your face since Red Brigades and the \"years of lead\"). The problem with the laws currently being discussed across Europe has a lot to do with the tone used and with the contradictory approach adopted in our countries in matters pertaining to freedom and diversity.Talking to Muslims in antagonistic and aggressive terms, in particular when they are citizens \u2013 as in Belgium, France or the UK \u2013 or would-be citizens \u2013 as in Spain or Italy \u2013 does not sound like an ideal way of promoting the notion of a cohesive society with shared values working for the common good. Most politicking talk in Europe revolves around integrating and educating Muslims. Maybe what we need most urgently is a bit of collective reflection on what we understand by diversity and the need to respect the individual.", "tags": ["Religion", "Islam", "World news", "France", "French burqa and niqab ban", "Islamic veil"], "title": "France votes on the burqa | Sara Silvestri"},{"date": "2010-08-31T18:47:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy's government today launched a robust defence of its widely criticised crackdown on Gypsy immigrants in France.A week before convening a meeting of several European interior ministers in Paris to drum up support for the hardline policy and to seek to extend it across the EU, senior French officials told the European commission in Brussels that the demolition of Roma camps and the expulsions of hundreds of families, mainly from Romania, were in line with freedom of movement laws inside the EU.\"I explained the principles on which we acted,\" said Eric Besson, France's immigration minister, after meeting Viviane Reding and Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, the European commissioners for human rights and policing. \"Everything is in total conformity with European law, the 2004 [freedom of movement EU] directive, French law and the republican principles of France.\"Reding is to report to her fellow European commissioners tomorrow on the political and legal impact of the Sarkozy anti-Roma campaign. Officials in Brussels have been squirming with unease over the past week when pressed to respond to the crackdown, although Reding was strongly critical of the French.\"Nobody should face expulsion just for being Roma,\" she said. \"Some of the rhetoric that has been used in some member states in the past weeks has been openly discriminatory and partly inflammatory.\" But Besson and Pierre Lellouche, the French Europe minister, delivered a trenchant defence of a policy that has split the French cabinet, triggered criticism from former Sarkozy allies and been denounced by the Vatican, the United Nations, human rights campaigners and some of the main political parties in the European parliament.Targeting the Romanian government, Besson argued that no country in the EU could forfeit its welfare duties and dump its citizens on another member state. Lellouche said that France contributed \u20ac5bn net a year to the EU budget while Romania received \u20ac4bn, but spent a mere 0.4% of that on its large Gypsy minority.The authorities have deported more than 8,000 Roma to Romania and Bulgaria this year, including almost 300 last week. Despite the criticism, Besson signalled a tougher line, with new laws being drafted making it easier to kick people out. He is strongly supported by Silvio Berlusconi's government in Italy, which is also pressing EU governments to bypass the commission and agree to a bigger crackdown.The French have convened interior ministry officials from Italy, Britain, Germany, Spain and Belgium, suggesting the aim is to fashion an alliance of big EU governments. The Belgians, holding the EU presidency, have been reluctant to attend for fear of legitimising the crackdown. Malmstr\u00f6m was initially not invited until her boss, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, the commission president, phoned Sarkozy.", "tags": ["Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "European commission", "European Union", "Law"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsions"},{"date": "2010-07-19T14:49:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "From science fiction writers to poets and playwrights, would-be French authors are lining up to take part in France's first venture into crowdfunded literature.Launched this spring by publisher \u00c9ditions du Public, the initiative \u2013 slogan: \"I invest in what I want to read\" \u2013 has already received 80 manuscripts. Sixteen have been merited good enough to make it onto the publisher's website, from Nathalie Tavignot's Croissant de lune (Crescent Moon), in which a series of murders occur in a village whose inhabitants have just woken from a long sleep and remember nothing, to Ghislain Hammer's poetry collection Les colosses nus (The Naked Colossi).The publishers are now looking for co-editors to help fund publication of the books. Each co-editor must invest \u20ac11 in their chosen title, and will then be able to discuss the book with its author on \u00c9ditions du Public's forum, following each stage as it is written. Each title has six months to sign up 2,000 co-editors and some are already proving more popular than others: Tavignot's thriller has 45 subscribers, while Hammer has just two.Once the 2,000 threshold has been reached, an editor at \u00c9ditions du Public will go over the text and layout with the author. The book will then be sold online and through bookshops, with each co-editor able to recoup \"up to eight times the amount of their initial subscription\"\u00a0depending on sales, as well as receiving a free copy of the book they have edited.\"We want, thanks to crowdfunding, to give the chance to every author to be published,\" said Laurence Broussal at \u00c9ditions du Public. \"Thanks to our website, authors have a real communication platform to make themselves known to internet users and to meet their public. But we want this to be without risk: the internet co-editor is refunded with 100% of their output, and the author gets back their manuscript, if the book is not published.\"Broussal said that \u00c9ditions du Public was the first publisher to utilise crowdfunding in France, although the concept has already been experimented with in music and film. The publisher has already received around 1,000 subscriptions across all its titles after starting to recruit co-editors at the beginning of July, and hopes to publish its first book by the end of the year.", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "France pioneers 'crowdfunded' publishing"},{"date": "2010-09-15T13:03:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France today angrily defended its controversial Roma crackdown, attacking the European commission for comparing the policy to second world war deportations and for failing to address \"the mother [country] of human rights\" with sufficient gravity.Pierre Lellouche, the French European affairs minister who yesterday found himself in the firing line from Viviane Reding, the European commissioner for justice, said he could not allow her to compare \"the France of 2010 [to] the France of Vichy\".\"The tone she took \u2026 is not the manner one uses to address a great state like France, which is the mother of human rights,\" he told French radio. \"We are not the naughty pupil of the class whom the teacher tells off and we are not the criminal before the prosecutor.\"Lellouche, who was told yesterday that France could face legal action over the summer crackdown, added that he had spoken to Reding this morning and told her he would like to think \"her passion [had] exceeded her rationale\".\"A nest egg, a plane ticket going to their native country within the EU: these are not death camps, these are not gas chambers,\" he added, referring to the one-off payment of \u20ac300 (\u00a3250) per adult made by French authorities to Roma returning to their home country on so-called \"voluntary\" return flights.Lellouche's strident defence of the policy, which has seen nearly 1,000 Roma expelled and dozens of \"non-authorised\" camps broken up since the beginning of August, was echoed in more mild language by the Elys\u00e9e. Insisting there was no desire to further the \"pointless controversy\" with Brussels, it added, in an oblique reference to the second world war comparison: \"However, certain comments are quite simply not acceptable.\"On French radio, Eric Besson, Nicolas Sarkozy's minister for immigration and national identity, criticised Reding's reference to Jewish deportations in the 1940s, calling it \"shocking\" and \"anachronistic\".The U-turn by the European commission, which came after weeks of criticism by human rights activists for failing to take a tough line with Paris, came in the aftermath of the leak of a French government document showing that the Roma were the explicit target of the crackdown. The government, which was deeply embarrassed by the leak, has since modified the order to remove all reference to a particular group of people.\"There was a mistake in the circular; it has been corrected. The end. Done,\" said Benoist Apparu, a junior minister and member of Sarkozy's rightwing UMP party.Among French critics of the Roma crackdown, however, the criticism from Brussels came as proof of their country's tarnished image. \"It is a true disgrace for men and women to be hunted down in our country just because they are of a certain ethnicity and not because they have committed crimes,\" said Martine Aubry, leader of the opposition Socialist party.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Race issues", "European Union", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsion policy"},{"date": "2010-08-31T23:45:04Z", "country": "france", "content": "The death of the double Tour de France winner Laurent Fignon yesterday from cancer at the age of 50 drew tributes from right across French society and sport, from the president Nicolas Sarkozy to his former literature teacher, the organisers of the Tour itself, and former rivals such as the five-times winner Bernard Hinault. As an honest man who never flinched from self-criticism, Fignon would have smiled wryly at such a public farewell.An almost painfully private man, Fignon was defined \u2013 very much against his will \u2013 by the very public way in which he lost the 1989 Tour de France, a race which is still widely considered the greatest in the event's 107-year history.He lost by just eight seconds in the final stage, the Tour's narrowest margin, to the American Greg LeMond after beginning the 24.5km time trial to the Champs-Elys\u00e9es with a lead that seemed comfortable. He was never quite the same athlete again, and for years he was unwilling to go back to the scene of the defeat.Nearly 16 years after quitting professional cycling to work initially as an event organiser and later as a television summariser, Fignon had announced in spring 2009 that he was suffering from pancreatic cancer which had spread to his intestinal tract.He reported on the 2009 Tour de France for French television in between sessions of chemotherapy and returned to the race this summer to commentate when his strength permitted. He was admitted to hospital two weeks ago suffering from pulmonary complications.\"He fought to the end,\" said his close friend, his former masseur Alain Gallopin, now a manager at Lance Armstrong's Radioshack team.\"[Monday] morning, we could feel he was still fighting, he was asking for information about his treatment. Then his state worsened and he slipped away. For a year and a half a lot of different cures have been tried but none has worked.\"Fignon was expected to take a place among the greats of the sport such as Eddy Merckx and Hinault when he dominated the 1984 Tour de France in the most crushing style, taking five stages and finishing over 14 minutes ahead of the \"Badger\" who had been absent when Fignon rode to his first Tour win a year earlier. \"I will win five or six, and then I'll quit,\" he said afterwards. But instead the Parisian spent the rest of his career attempting to regain his old form after achilles tendon operations in spring and autumn 1985.There were sporadic triumphs, such as a meticulously planned and executed brace of victories in the Milan-San Remo Classic in 1988 and 1989, and the 1989 Giro d'Italia. But his autobiography published in France last year made it clear that after his two years of grace, he fought a painful battle against the limits of his body. Fignon's book spared no one \u2013 including some of those who paid tribute yesterday \u2013 but least of all himself, as he admitted to doping during his career with cortisone and amphetamines.William Fotheringham is the translator of Laurent Fignon's autobiography We Were Young and Carefree, published by Yellow Jersey Press this June", "tags": ["Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "France pays tribute to Tour de France legend Laurent Fignon"},{"date": "2010-07-13T09:00:11Z", "country": "france", "content": "Today members of the French parliament will finally cast their votes on the infamous law banning the voile int\u00e9gral \u2013 the burqa, sitar or khimar \u2013 that has been making the headlines for the past year. In the meantime, the anti-burqa campaign has reached Belgium, Spain and Italy, and last week British MP Phillip Hollobone also expressed support for similar measures in this country.Is all this an indication that feelings have changed across Europe, five years after 7/7? That Europeans have become more \"Islamophobic\"? Probably not. It's rather that things have become particularly tangled and Islam has become an easy card to play. As a recent editorial in Le Monde Diplomatique suggested, the French government is busy sorting out its finances and reforming pensions. The burqa debate is a convenient way to distract the public from unwelcome economic cuts.It is also curious to note that, whereas Belgian MPs have been unanimous in demanding that their country should also ban the voile int\u00e9gral for the past four years or so, they have been unable to agree on how to form a stable government. Ironically, the anti-burqa bill was approved by the lower chamber of the Belgian parliament on the same day as the latest in a series of government crises; as a consequence the law-making process stalled, and the bill never went to the senate for discussion. Although the Belgian situation came to our attention in Britain unexpectedly, tensions about the veil and Islam have been going on for almost a decade there, especially in the Francophone part of the country, which tends to be influenced by the stricter French approach to la\u00efcit\u00e9.Although French MPs, left and right alike, have repeatedly insisted on their support for the law, the context to their decision is one of great controversy. Not only are French Muslims frustrated and furious but the Conseil d'\u00c9tat gave official advice, in May, not to pursue a total ban on the burqa in public spaces, and deemed it legally \"unfounded\". A week ago the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe also issued a unanimous resolution condemning a general law, although it stated that legal restrictions may be justified \"for security purposes, or where the public or professional functions of individuals require their religious neutrality, or that their face can be seen\". It also recognised that \"no woman should be compelled to wear religious apparel by her community or family\" and that European governments should educate Muslim women on their rights and freedoms.These mixed feelings about how to respond to the full veil are symptomatic of a not-fully-explicable uneasiness with Islam and the growing religious plurality of Europe. Behind this is probably an inability to deal with bigger issues such as the consequences of globalisation, migration, the financial crisis, and a crisis of national identities. Places in which the veil was not an issue until recently have now been drawn into the debate. With my research team I recently completed fieldwork with Muslim women in Spain and Italy. We clearly detected fear and paranoia among our respondents. Until recently, when questioned about the situation of Islam in Italy I would answer that there were many problems, primarily to do with immigration law, but that no, the veil was definitely not an issue, if anything because Italians and Spaniards were used to seeing and interacting with nuns with their veils everywhere. Unfortunately the situation has now reversed. The \"non-issue\" of the veil has been imported and become one that polarises people.Spanish local authorities recently put forward legislation (which has nevertheless attracted the support of national politicians including from the left) against veiling; but there had been concerns for some time. Most of our interviewees in Zaragoza mentioned cases of women forced to take off their headscarves in order to be able to accept jobs. In Turin, many well-educated and articulate Muslim women of Moroccan origin complained of how they would be treated with disrespect, as if they could not understand, read or write, when they went to public offices for paperwork pertaining citizenship or their permission to stay. And a young Italian convert told us how frustrated she felt when, the moment she started wearing the hijab, she noted that people suddenly switched to the tu (\"you\" singular) form in conversation with her and insisted she could not possibly be Italian, whereas before she would be treated with the more formal lei (\"you\" plural) form.Many Muslims have become very anxious about these developments and Middle Eastern governments and media outlets often emphasise the apparent anti-Islamic attitudes of Europe. I am not sure that the situation has deteriorated all that much, however. Muslims in Britain complain about the negative depiction of Islam in the public domain but Muslims in France wish their country was as free as the UK. Muslims in Italy are tired of being treated as alien immigrants, but at least there have been no draconian counter-terrorism measures or stop and search programmes such as those in the UK. The grass is always greener on the other side.As we know, very few Muslim women wear the burqa or the niqab; many Muslims are in fact opposed to these covering practices; and certain security issues brought up in support of the burqa ban are not totally unfounded (Yassin Omar, the 21/7 bomber allegedly fled London dressed in a burqa; several suicide bombers in Iraq \u2013 including a female Belgian convert \u2013 were covered; Italy has had a law banning covering your face since Red Brigades and the \"years of lead\"). The problem with the laws currently being discussed across Europe has a lot to do with the tone used and with the contradictory approach adopted in our countries in matters pertaining to freedom and diversity.Talking to Muslims in antagonistic and aggressive terms, in particular when they are citizens \u2013 as in Belgium, France or the UK \u2013 or would-be citizens \u2013 as in Spain or Italy \u2013 does not sound like an ideal way of promoting the notion of a cohesive society with shared values working for the common good. Most politicking talk in Europe revolves around integrating and educating Muslims. Maybe what we need most urgently is a bit of collective reflection on what we understand by diversity and the need to respect the individual.", "tags": ["Religion", "Islam", "World news", "France", "French burqa and niqab ban", "Islamic veil"], "title": "France votes on the burqa | Sara Silvestri"},{"date": "2010-07-01T11:00:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"What did you do in the war, papa?\" is going to become an increasingly pertinent question in France over the next decade or so. The country's police are not only going to be releasing the names of second world war collaborators, they are going to be posting them on the internet.The slow process of digitising batches of long-forgotten reports is already under way in station archives across the country, so that they can go online the moment the 75-year secrecy notices come to an end. This means, for example, that if a beloved great uncle was caught slipping some black market camembert to the Bosch in 1940, then the whole world will be able to read about it from 2015.Of course, for many more the situation will be a lot more serious. Dark secrets from the occupation have remained just that thanks to an amnesia affecting all sections of society. Just as statesmen and civil servants routinely forgot how almost 80,000 Jews and other \"undesirables\" were sent from France to their deaths in Nazi concentration camps, so no one could recall having a relative in the Waffen-SS Charlemagne division, or even attending one of their Edith Piaf-led sing-a-longs. Instead, the myth of resistance maintained that the majority of French people spent their war tapping out morse code to Charles de Gaulle in London, in between blowing up the occasional Berlin-Paris arms train.This pitifully dishonest view was encapsulated by Le Chagrin et la Piti\u00e9 (The Sorrow and the Pity), the brilliant documentary produced by Marcel Oph\u00fcls in the late 1960s. Interviewing everybody from French-German translators to bicycle shop workers, it provided a variety of novel reasons for collaboration, not least of all \"hatred of the British and all things Anglo-Saxon\". Other routine excuses included \"suspicion of Bolshevism\", \"the desire for a quiet life\" and \u2013 of course \u2013 antisemitism. Young women seemed to be among the few social groups who were actually castigated for their compliancy with the Germans, as reflected in all those gruesome black-and-white newsreel films of them having their hair shaved off in public (why do men always escape this kind of street punishment?).Le Chagrin was, predictably, banned across France until the 1980s, summing up the wish of censors not to upset their country's fragile psyche. Change came very slowly indeed, and it was not until last year that the council of state, France's highest judicial body, ruled that Nazi officials did not always force people to betray their fellow citizens, but that persecution was often carried out willingly. This made a mockery of successive governments who refused to acknowledge any role in the Holocaust by the wartime Vichy regime. President Jacques Chirac's admirably blunt observation that 'yes, the criminal folly of the occupiers was seconded by the French, by the French state' summed up the reality of the collaborationist Republic.While the bundles of police files covering this period will be scoured with a mixture of fascination and unease, one Frenchman who probably has nothing to worry about is Nicolas Sarkozy. His family's war was spent mostly in Nazi-occupied Hungary, where the future \u00e9migr\u00e9s retained their servants and impressive countryside pile outside Budapest. However, forgetting internet naming and shaming, the new mood of openness may well lead to questions about why P\u00e1l S\u00e1rk\u00f6zy de Nagy-B\u00f3csa \u2013 the head of state's now elderly father \u2013 fled to Berlin as Soviet troops approached Hungary at the end of the war. In this sense the \"what did you do in the war, papa?\" conundrum is just as likely to trouble a French president as it is his numerous constituents.", "tags": ["Second world war", "France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news"], "title": "France names and shames collaborators | Nabila Ramdani"},{"date": "2010-08-31T18:47:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy's government today launched a robust defence of its widely criticised crackdown on Gypsy immigrants in France.A week before convening a meeting of several European interior ministers in Paris to drum up support for the hardline policy and to seek to extend it across the EU, senior French officials told the European commission in Brussels that the demolition of Roma camps and the expulsions of hundreds of families, mainly from Romania, were in line with freedom of movement laws inside the EU.\"I explained the principles on which we acted,\" said Eric Besson, France's immigration minister, after meeting Viviane Reding and Cecilia Malmstr\u00f6m, the European commissioners for human rights and policing. \"Everything is in total conformity with European law, the 2004 [freedom of movement EU] directive, French law and the republican principles of France.\"Reding is to report to her fellow European commissioners tomorrow on the political and legal impact of the Sarkozy anti-Roma campaign. Officials in Brussels have been squirming with unease over the past week when pressed to respond to the crackdown, although Reding was strongly critical of the French.\"Nobody should face expulsion just for being Roma,\" she said. \"Some of the rhetoric that has been used in some member states in the past weeks has been openly discriminatory and partly inflammatory.\" But Besson and Pierre Lellouche, the French Europe minister, delivered a trenchant defence of a policy that has split the French cabinet, triggered criticism from former Sarkozy allies and been denounced by the Vatican, the United Nations, human rights campaigners and some of the main political parties in the European parliament.Targeting the Romanian government, Besson argued that no country in the EU could forfeit its welfare duties and dump its citizens on another member state. Lellouche said that France contributed \u20ac5bn net a year to the EU budget while Romania received \u20ac4bn, but spent a mere 0.4% of that on its large Gypsy minority.The authorities have deported more than 8,000 Roma to Romania and Bulgaria this year, including almost 300 last week. Despite the criticism, Besson signalled a tougher line, with new laws being drafted making it easier to kick people out. He is strongly supported by Silvio Berlusconi's government in Italy, which is also pressing EU governments to bypass the commission and agree to a bigger crackdown.The French have convened interior ministry officials from Italy, Britain, Germany, Spain and Belgium, suggesting the aim is to fashion an alliance of big EU governments. The Belgians, holding the EU presidency, have been reluctant to attend for fear of legitimising the crackdown. Malmstr\u00f6m was initially not invited until her boss, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso, the commission president, phoned Sarkozy.", "tags": ["Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "European commission", "European Union", "Law"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsions"},{"date": "2010-07-19T14:49:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "From science fiction writers to poets and playwrights, would-be French authors are lining up to take part in France's first venture into crowdfunded literature.Launched this spring by publisher \u00c9ditions du Public, the initiative \u2013 slogan: \"I invest in what I want to read\" \u2013 has already received 80 manuscripts. Sixteen have been merited good enough to make it onto the publisher's website, from Nathalie Tavignot's Croissant de lune (Crescent Moon), in which a series of murders occur in a village whose inhabitants have just woken from a long sleep and remember nothing, to Ghislain Hammer's poetry collection Les colosses nus (The Naked Colossi).The publishers are now looking for co-editors to help fund publication of the books. Each co-editor must invest \u20ac11 in their chosen title, and will then be able to discuss the book with its author on \u00c9ditions du Public's forum, following each stage as it is written. Each title has six months to sign up 2,000 co-editors and some are already proving more popular than others: Tavignot's thriller has 45 subscribers, while Hammer has just two.Once the 2,000 threshold has been reached, an editor at \u00c9ditions du Public will go over the text and layout with the author. The book will then be sold online and through bookshops, with each co-editor able to recoup \"up to eight times the amount of their initial subscription\"\u00a0depending on sales, as well as receiving a free copy of the book they have edited.\"We want, thanks to crowdfunding, to give the chance to every author to be published,\" said Laurence Broussal at \u00c9ditions du Public. \"Thanks to our website, authors have a real communication platform to make themselves known to internet users and to meet their public. But we want this to be without risk: the internet co-editor is refunded with 100% of their output, and the author gets back their manuscript, if the book is not published.\"Broussal said that \u00c9ditions du Public was the first publisher to utilise crowdfunding in France, although the concept has already been experimented with in music and film. The publisher has already received around 1,000 subscriptions across all its titles after starting to recruit co-editors at the beginning of July, and hopes to publish its first book by the end of the year.", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "France pioneers 'crowdfunded' publishing"},{"date": "2010-09-15T13:03:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France today angrily defended its controversial Roma crackdown, attacking the European commission for comparing the policy to second world war deportations and for failing to address \"the mother [country] of human rights\" with sufficient gravity.Pierre Lellouche, the French European affairs minister who yesterday found himself in the firing line from Viviane Reding, the European commissioner for justice, said he could not allow her to compare \"the France of 2010 [to] the France of Vichy\".\"The tone she took \u2026 is not the manner one uses to address a great state like France, which is the mother of human rights,\" he told French radio. \"We are not the naughty pupil of the class whom the teacher tells off and we are not the criminal before the prosecutor.\"Lellouche, who was told yesterday that France could face legal action over the summer crackdown, added that he had spoken to Reding this morning and told her he would like to think \"her passion [had] exceeded her rationale\".\"A nest egg, a plane ticket going to their native country within the EU: these are not death camps, these are not gas chambers,\" he added, referring to the one-off payment of \u20ac300 (\u00a3250) per adult made by French authorities to Roma returning to their home country on so-called \"voluntary\" return flights.Lellouche's strident defence of the policy, which has seen nearly 1,000 Roma expelled and dozens of \"non-authorised\" camps broken up since the beginning of August, was echoed in more mild language by the Elys\u00e9e. Insisting there was no desire to further the \"pointless controversy\" with Brussels, it added, in an oblique reference to the second world war comparison: \"However, certain comments are quite simply not acceptable.\"On French radio, Eric Besson, Nicolas Sarkozy's minister for immigration and national identity, criticised Reding's reference to Jewish deportations in the 1940s, calling it \"shocking\" and \"anachronistic\".The U-turn by the European commission, which came after weeks of criticism by human rights activists for failing to take a tough line with Paris, came in the aftermath of the leak of a French government document showing that the Roma were the explicit target of the crackdown. The government, which was deeply embarrassed by the leak, has since modified the order to remove all reference to a particular group of people.\"There was a mistake in the circular; it has been corrected. The end. Done,\" said Benoist Apparu, a junior minister and member of Sarkozy's rightwing UMP party.Among French critics of the Roma crackdown, however, the criticism from Brussels came as proof of their country's tarnished image. \"It is a true disgrace for men and women to be hunted down in our country just because they are of a certain ethnicity and not because they have committed crimes,\" said Martine Aubry, leader of the opposition Socialist party.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Race issues", "European Union", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers"], "title": "France defends Roma expulsion policy"},{"date": "2010-08-31T23:45:04Z", "country": "france", "content": "The death of the double Tour de France winner Laurent Fignon yesterday from cancer at the age of 50 drew tributes from right across French society and sport, from the president Nicolas Sarkozy to his former literature teacher, the organisers of the Tour itself, and former rivals such as the five-times winner Bernard Hinault. As an honest man who never flinched from self-criticism, Fignon would have smiled wryly at such a public farewell.An almost painfully private man, Fignon was defined \u2013 very much against his will \u2013 by the very public way in which he lost the 1989 Tour de France, a race which is still widely considered the greatest in the event's 107-year history.He lost by just eight seconds in the final stage, the Tour's narrowest margin, to the American Greg LeMond after beginning the 24.5km time trial to the Champs-Elys\u00e9es with a lead that seemed comfortable. He was never quite the same athlete again, and for years he was unwilling to go back to the scene of the defeat.Nearly 16 years after quitting professional cycling to work initially as an event organiser and later as a television summariser, Fignon had announced in spring 2009 that he was suffering from pancreatic cancer which had spread to his intestinal tract.He reported on the 2009 Tour de France for French television in between sessions of chemotherapy and returned to the race this summer to commentate when his strength permitted. He was admitted to hospital two weeks ago suffering from pulmonary complications.\"He fought to the end,\" said his close friend, his former masseur Alain Gallopin, now a manager at Lance Armstrong's Radioshack team.\"[Monday] morning, we could feel he was still fighting, he was asking for information about his treatment. Then his state worsened and he slipped away. For a year and a half a lot of different cures have been tried but none has worked.\"Fignon was expected to take a place among the greats of the sport such as Eddy Merckx and Hinault when he dominated the 1984 Tour de France in the most crushing style, taking five stages and finishing over 14 minutes ahead of the \"Badger\" who had been absent when Fignon rode to his first Tour win a year earlier. \"I will win five or six, and then I'll quit,\" he said afterwards. But instead the Parisian spent the rest of his career attempting to regain his old form after achilles tendon operations in spring and autumn 1985.There were sporadic triumphs, such as a meticulously planned and executed brace of victories in the Milan-San Remo Classic in 1988 and 1989, and the 1989 Giro d'Italia. But his autobiography published in France last year made it clear that after his two years of grace, he fought a painful battle against the limits of his body. Fignon's book spared no one \u2013 including some of those who paid tribute yesterday \u2013 but least of all himself, as he admitted to doping during his career with cortisone and amphetamines.William Fotheringham is the translator of Laurent Fignon's autobiography We Were Young and Carefree, published by Yellow Jersey Press this June", "tags": ["Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "France pays tribute to Tour de France legend Laurent Fignon"},{"date": "2010-07-13T09:00:11Z", "country": "france", "content": "Today members of the French parliament will finally cast their votes on the infamous law banning the voile int\u00e9gral \u2013 the burqa, sitar or khimar \u2013 that has been making the headlines for the past year. In the meantime, the anti-burqa campaign has reached Belgium, Spain and Italy, and last week British MP Phillip Hollobone also expressed support for similar measures in this country.Is all this an indication that feelings have changed across Europe, five years after 7/7? That Europeans have become more \"Islamophobic\"? Probably not. It's rather that things have become particularly tangled and Islam has become an easy card to play. As a recent editorial in Le Monde Diplomatique suggested, the French government is busy sorting out its finances and reforming pensions. The burqa debate is a convenient way to distract the public from unwelcome economic cuts.It is also curious to note that, whereas Belgian MPs have been unanimous in demanding that their country should also ban the voile int\u00e9gral for the past four years or so, they have been unable to agree on how to form a stable government. Ironically, the anti-burqa bill was approved by the lower chamber of the Belgian parliament on the same day as the latest in a series of government crises; as a consequence the law-making process stalled, and the bill never went to the senate for discussion. Although the Belgian situation came to our attention in Britain unexpectedly, tensions about the veil and Islam have been going on for almost a decade there, especially in the Francophone part of the country, which tends to be influenced by the stricter French approach to la\u00efcit\u00e9.Although French MPs, left and right alike, have repeatedly insisted on their support for the law, the context to their decision is one of great controversy. Not only are French Muslims frustrated and furious but the Conseil d'\u00c9tat gave official advice, in May, not to pursue a total ban on the burqa in public spaces, and deemed it legally \"unfounded\". A week ago the parliamentary assembly of the Council of Europe also issued a unanimous resolution condemning a general law, although it stated that legal restrictions may be justified \"for security purposes, or where the public or professional functions of individuals require their religious neutrality, or that their face can be seen\". It also recognised that \"no woman should be compelled to wear religious apparel by her community or family\" and that European governments should educate Muslim women on their rights and freedoms.These mixed feelings about how to respond to the full veil are symptomatic of a not-fully-explicable uneasiness with Islam and the growing religious plurality of Europe. Behind this is probably an inability to deal with bigger issues such as the consequences of globalisation, migration, the financial crisis, and a crisis of national identities. Places in which the veil was not an issue until recently have now been drawn into the debate. With my research team I recently completed fieldwork with Muslim women in Spain and Italy. We clearly detected fear and paranoia among our respondents. Until recently, when questioned about the situation of Islam in Italy I would answer that there were many problems, primarily to do with immigration law, but that no, the veil was definitely not an issue, if anything because Italians and Spaniards were used to seeing and interacting with nuns with their veils everywhere. Unfortunately the situation has now reversed. The \"non-issue\" of the veil has been imported and become one that polarises people.Spanish local authorities recently put forward legislation (which has nevertheless attracted the support of national politicians including from the left) against veiling; but there had been concerns for some time. Most of our interviewees in Zaragoza mentioned cases of women forced to take off their headscarves in order to be able to accept jobs. In Turin, many well-educated and articulate Muslim women of Moroccan origin complained of how they would be treated with disrespect, as if they could not understand, read or write, when they went to public offices for paperwork pertaining citizenship or their permission to stay. And a young Italian convert told us how frustrated she felt when, the moment she started wearing the hijab, she noted that people suddenly switched to the tu (\"you\" singular) form in conversation with her and insisted she could not possibly be Italian, whereas before she would be treated with the more formal lei (\"you\" plural) form.Many Muslims have become very anxious about these developments and Middle Eastern governments and media outlets often emphasise the apparent anti-Islamic attitudes of Europe. I am not sure that the situation has deteriorated all that much, however. Muslims in Britain complain about the negative depiction of Islam in the public domain but Muslims in France wish their country was as free as the UK. Muslims in Italy are tired of being treated as alien immigrants, but at least there have been no draconian counter-terrorism measures or stop and search programmes such as those in the UK. The grass is always greener on the other side.As we know, very few Muslim women wear the burqa or the niqab; many Muslims are in fact opposed to these covering practices; and certain security issues brought up in support of the burqa ban are not totally unfounded (Yassin Omar, the 21/7 bomber allegedly fled London dressed in a burqa; several suicide bombers in Iraq \u2013 including a female Belgian convert \u2013 were covered; Italy has had a law banning covering your face since Red Brigades and the \"years of lead\"). The problem with the laws currently being discussed across Europe has a lot to do with the tone used and with the contradictory approach adopted in our countries in matters pertaining to freedom and diversity.Talking to Muslims in antagonistic and aggressive terms, in particular when they are citizens \u2013 as in Belgium, France or the UK \u2013 or would-be citizens \u2013 as in Spain or Italy \u2013 does not sound like an ideal way of promoting the notion of a cohesive society with shared values working for the common good. Most politicking talk in Europe revolves around integrating and educating Muslims. Maybe what we need most urgently is a bit of collective reflection on what we understand by diversity and the need to respect the individual.", "tags": ["Religion", "Islam", "World news", "France", "French burqa and niqab ban", "Islamic veil"], "title": "France votes on the burqa | Sara Silvestri"},{"date": "2010-07-01T11:00:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"What did you do in the war, papa?\" is going to become an increasingly pertinent question in France over the next decade or so. The country's police are not only going to be releasing the names of second world war collaborators, they are going to be posting them on the internet.The slow process of digitising batches of long-forgotten reports is already under way in station archives across the country, so that they can go online the moment the 75-year secrecy notices come to an end. This means, for example, that if a beloved great uncle was caught slipping some black market camembert to the Bosch in 1940, then the whole world will be able to read about it from 2015.Of course, for many more the situation will be a lot more serious. Dark secrets from the occupation have remained just that thanks to an amnesia affecting all sections of society. Just as statesmen and civil servants routinely forgot how almost 80,000 Jews and other \"undesirables\" were sent from France to their deaths in Nazi concentration camps, so no one could recall having a relative in the Waffen-SS Charlemagne division, or even attending one of their Edith Piaf-led sing-a-longs. Instead, the myth of resistance maintained that the majority of French people spent their war tapping out morse code to Charles de Gaulle in London, in between blowing up the occasional Berlin-Paris arms train.This pitifully dishonest view was encapsulated by Le Chagrin et la Piti\u00e9 (The Sorrow and the Pity), the brilliant documentary produced by Marcel Oph\u00fcls in the late 1960s. Interviewing everybody from French-German translators to bicycle shop workers, it provided a variety of novel reasons for collaboration, not least of all \"hatred of the British and all things Anglo-Saxon\". Other routine excuses included \"suspicion of Bolshevism\", \"the desire for a quiet life\" and \u2013 of course \u2013 antisemitism. Young women seemed to be among the few social groups who were actually castigated for their compliancy with the Germans, as reflected in all those gruesome black-and-white newsreel films of them having their hair shaved off in public (why do men always escape this kind of street punishment?).Le Chagrin was, predictably, banned across France until the 1980s, summing up the wish of censors not to upset their country's fragile psyche. Change came very slowly indeed, and it was not until last year that the council of state, France's highest judicial body, ruled that Nazi officials did not always force people to betray their fellow citizens, but that persecution was often carried out willingly. This made a mockery of successive governments who refused to acknowledge any role in the Holocaust by the wartime Vichy regime. President Jacques Chirac's admirably blunt observation that 'yes, the criminal folly of the occupiers was seconded by the French, by the French state' summed up the reality of the collaborationist Republic.While the bundles of police files covering this period will be scoured with a mixture of fascination and unease, one Frenchman who probably has nothing to worry about is Nicolas Sarkozy. His family's war was spent mostly in Nazi-occupied Hungary, where the future \u00e9migr\u00e9s retained their servants and impressive countryside pile outside Budapest. However, forgetting internet naming and shaming, the new mood of openness may well lead to questions about why P\u00e1l S\u00e1rk\u00f6zy de Nagy-B\u00f3csa \u2013 the head of state's now elderly father \u2013 fled to Berlin as Soviet troops approached Hungary at the end of the war. In this sense the \"what did you do in the war, papa?\" conundrum is just as likely to trouble a French president as it is his numerous constituents.", "tags": ["Second world war", "France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news"], "title": "France names and shames collaborators | Nabila Ramdani"},{"date": "2010-09-07T23:06:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "French unions were out on the streets yesterday hoping to repeat their past success in defeating plans to reduce the pension entitlement of French workers. After all, they forced a previous president, Jacques Chirac, to retreat on pensions, as well as bringing down one of his prime ministers on the issue. So this is a make-or-break moment for the unions and for Nicolas Sarkozy, who sees a pensions victory as the centrepiece of a range of reforms which will transform his faltering presidency.As the French assembly begins an extraordinary session to decide on changes to the pensions system, while the senate considers budget cuts, a new security law and a law to ban the burqa, there is a sense that France faces dangerous choices. If the reforms go through unmodified the country will have diluted welfare state achievements and cut its responsibilities to citizens, at the same time as it becomes a more hard-faced society for migrants and minorities. On the other hand, if Sarkozy's reforms are derailed, that could wreck what remains of his presidency and might even bring about the credit downgrading which all European governments fear so much.Sarkozy wants to raise the age at which workers can choose to retire by two years to 62 and the age when they get a full pension from 65 to 67. France's pension provisions are more generous than those of most of its neighbours. Trimming them a little might seem to outsiders not unreasonable, given that the pensions burden is steadily becoming less sustainable as the ratio of retirees to people in work worsens, which it is doing everywhere in Europe. But that is to ignore the French left's fear that any change would be the thin end of the wedge, as well as the French view that most work is a burden from which an early release is, or ought to be, a right. Le Monde this week reported on steel workers who speak of the hell of being at the furnace head and chemical industry employees who complain that they will have to breathe in toxic fumes for another two years. Nearly 700 amendments have been tabled in the assembly, and exemptions for workers in dangerous or dirty occupations are one of the areas where there is room for manoeuvre.But the French do not confine their notion of the hard slog to factory work. Le Monde also quotes a shop assistant who explains that by 60 you are completely ground down, and a teachers' leader who sourly offers that the teacher who retires with tears in his eyes is something found in films and not in real life. Francois Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que, leader of the Conf\u00e9d\u00e9ration Francaise D\u00e9mocratique du Travail, has made sensible suggestions for compromise which the government should consider with care.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Protest in France: Reform and reaction | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-10-20T19:59:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "The demonstrations that have rocked France this past week highlight some of its differences from the United States. The photo here, for example shows the difference between rioting in baseball-playing versus soccer-playing countries. In the US, we would pick up the tear gas canister and throw it, rather than kick it, back at the police.More importantly, the French have decided to take to the streets in the millions \u2013 including large-scale strikes and work stoppages \u2013 to defend hard-won retirement gains. (It must be emphasised, since the media sometimes forgets to make the distinction, that only a tiny percentage of France's demonstrators have engaged in any kind of property damage and even fewer in violence, with all but these few protesting peacefully.) French populist rage is being directed in a positive direction \u2013 unlike in the United States where it is most prominently being mobilised to elect political candidates who will do their best to increase the suffering of working- and middle-class citizens. I have to admit, though, that it was perplexing to watch the French elect Nicolas Sarkozy president in 2007, a man who campaigned on the idea that France had to make its economy more \"efficient\", like America's. In reality, he couldn't have picked a worse time to peddle this mumbo-jumbo. The housing bubble was already bursting in the United States and would soon cause not only our own Great Recession, but also drag most of the world economy into the swamp with it. So much for that particular model of economic dynamism.But Sarkozy had a lot of help from the major media, which was quite enchanted with the American model at the time and helped promote a number of myths that formed part of his campaign. Among these were the idea that French social protections and employment benefits were \"unaffordable in a global economy\", and that employers would hire more people if it were easier to fire them, and if taxes were cut for the rich. Sarkozy has recently abandoned one of his most politically unpopular tax cuts for the rich, but there may be others. But he had also promised not to raise the retirement age for the public pension system. This has contributed to the mass outrage at his current proposal to raise it from 60 to 62, for those taking the reduced benefits, and from 65 to 67, for full benefits. (Under the US social security system, most people opt for the reduced benefit that is available beginning at age 62; full benefits are available, for those born after 1959, at 67.)Once again, most of the media thinks the French are being unrealistic, and should just get with the programme like everyone else. The argument is that life expectancy is increasing, so we all have to work longer. But this is a bit like reporting half of a baseball score (or soccer, if you prefer). On the other side is the fact that productivity and GDP also increase over time, and so it is indeed possible for the French to choose to spend more years in retirement and pay for it. France's retirement age was last set in 1983. Since then, GDP per person has increased by 45%. The increase in life expectancy is very small by comparison. The number of workers per retiree declined from 4.4 in 1983 to 3.5 in 2010, but the growth of national income was vastly more than enough to compensate for the demographic changes, including the change in life expectancy.The situation is similar going forward: the growth in national income over the next 30 or 40 years will be much more than sufficient to pay for the increases in pension costs due to demographic changes, while still allowing future generations to enjoy considerably higher living standards than people today. It is simply a social choice as to how many years people want to live in retirement and how they want to pay for it. If the French want to keep the retirement age as is, there are plenty of ways to finance future pension costs without necessarily raising the retirement age. One of them, which has support among the French left (and which Sarkozy claims to support at the international level), would be a tax on financial transactions. Such a \"speculation tax\" could raise billions of dollars of revenue \u2013 as it currently does in the UK \u2013 while simultaneously discouraging speculative trading in financial assets and derivatives. The French unions and protesters are demanding that the government considers some of these more progressive alternatives.It is, therefore, perfectly reasonable to expect that as life expectancy increases, workers should be able to spend more of the lives in retirement. And that is what most French citizens expect. They may not have seen all the arithmetic, but they grasp intuitively that as a country grows richer year after year, they should not have to spend more of their lives working.An increase in the retirement age is a highly regressive cut that will hit working people hardest. Poorer workers have shorter life expectancies and would lose a higher proportion of their retirement years. Workers who have to retire early because of unemployment or other hardships will take a benefit cut as a result of this change. And, of course, this cut would not matter to the richest people in society, who do not rely on the public pension system for most of their retirement income.France has a lower level of inequality than most OECD countries and is one of only five \u2013 out of 30 OECD countries \u2013 that saw inequality decrease (pdf) from the mid 1980s to the mid 2000s. It also had the largest decrease in inequality in the group, although all of it was from the mid 80s to the mid 90s. France has, until now, resisted at least some of the changes that have rolled the clock back for working people and, especially, low-income citizens in the high-income countries. The European authorities (including the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund) are currently accelerating these regressive changes in the weaker Eurozone economies (such as Greece, Spain and Ireland). All of these institutions and many politicians are trying to use the current economic problems of Europe as a pretext to enact rightwing reforms.Polls show more than 70% support for France's strikers, despite the inconvenience of fuel shortages and other disruptions. The French are already sick of their rightist government, and that is also part of what is generating the protests. Despite the recent electoral weakness of the Socialist party, France has a stronger left than many other countries do, and one that has the ability and willingness to organise mass protest, work stoppages and educational campaigns. The French are, in effect, fighting for the future of Europe \u2013 and it is a good example for others. We can only hope that, here in the United States, we will be able to beat back any proposed cuts to our much less generous social security system, with attacks on benefits looming on the horizon.", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Welfare", "European Union", "Tax and spending", "Retirement age", "Pensions", "Europe", "Benefits"], "title": "Sarkozy should retire, says France | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-20T19:59:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "The demonstrations that have rocked France this past week highlight some of its differences from the United States. The photo here, for example shows the difference between rioting in baseball-playing versus soccer-playing countries. In the US, we would pick up the tear gas canister and throw it, rather than kick it, back at the police.More importantly, the French have decided to take to the streets in the millions \u2013 including large-scale strikes and work stoppages \u2013 to defend hard-won retirement gains. (It must be emphasised, since the media sometimes forgets to make the distinction, that only a tiny percentage of France's demonstrators have engaged in any kind of property damage and even fewer in violence, with all but these few protesting peacefully.) French populist rage is being directed in a positive direction \u2013 unlike in the United States where it is most prominently being mobilised to elect political candidates who will do their best to increase the suffering of working- and middle-class citizens. I have to admit, though, that it was perplexing to watch the French elect Nicolas Sarkozy president in 2007, a man who campaigned on the idea that France had to make its economy more \"efficient\", like America's. In reality, he couldn't have picked a worse time to peddle this mumbo-jumbo. The housing bubble was already bursting in the United States and would soon cause not only our own Great Recession, but also drag most of the world economy into the swamp with it. So much for that particular model of economic dynamism.But Sarkozy had a lot of help from the major media, which was quite enchanted with the American model at the time and helped promote a number of myths that formed part of his campaign. Among these were the idea that French social protections and employment benefits were \"unaffordable in a global economy\", and that employers would hire more people if it were easier to fire them, and if taxes were cut for the rich. Sarkozy has recently abandoned one of his most politically unpopular tax cuts for the rich, but there may be others. But he had also promised not to raise the retirement age for the public pension system. This has contributed to the mass outrage at his current proposal to raise it from 60 to 62, for those taking the reduced benefits, and from 65 to 67, for full benefits. (Under the US social security system, most people opt for the reduced benefit that is available beginning at age 62; full benefits are available, for those born after 1959, at 67.)Once again, most of the media thinks the French are being unrealistic, and should just get with the programme like everyone else. The argument is that life expectancy is increasing, so we all have to work longer. But this is a bit like reporting half of a baseball score (or soccer, if you prefer). On the other side is the fact that productivity and GDP also increase over time, and so it is indeed possible for the French to choose to spend more years in retirement and pay for it. France's retirement age was last set in 1983. Since then, GDP per person has increased by 45%. The increase in life expectancy is very small by comparison. The number of workers per retiree declined from 4.4 in 1983 to 3.5 in 2010, but the growth of national income was vastly more than enough to compensate for the demographic changes, including the change in life expectancy.The situation is similar going forward: the growth in national income over the next 30 or 40 years will be much more than sufficient to pay for the increases in pension costs due to demographic changes, while still allowing future generations to enjoy considerably higher living standards than people today. It is simply a social choice as to how many years people want to live in retirement and how they want to pay for it. If the French want to keep the retirement age as is, there are plenty of ways to finance future pension costs without necessarily raising the retirement age. One of them, which has support among the French left (and which Sarkozy claims to support at the international level), would be a tax on financial transactions. Such a \"speculation tax\" could raise billions of dollars of revenue \u2013 as it currently does in the UK \u2013 while simultaneously discouraging speculative trading in financial assets and derivatives. The French unions and protesters are demanding that the government considers some of these more progressive alternatives.It is, therefore, perfectly reasonable to expect that as life expectancy increases, workers should be able to spend more of the lives in retirement. And that is what most French citizens expect. They may not have seen all the arithmetic, but they grasp intuitively that as a country grows richer year after year, they should not have to spend more of their lives working.An increase in the retirement age is a highly regressive cut that will hit working people hardest. Poorer workers have shorter life expectancies and would lose a higher proportion of their retirement years. Workers who have to retire early because of unemployment or other hardships will take a benefit cut as a result of this change. And, of course, this cut would not matter to the richest people in society, who do not rely on the public pension system for most of their retirement income.France has a lower level of inequality than most OECD countries and is one of only five \u2013 out of 30 OECD countries \u2013 that saw inequality decrease (pdf) from the mid 1980s to the mid 2000s. It also had the largest decrease in inequality in the group, although all of it was from the mid 80s to the mid 90s. France has, until now, resisted at least some of the changes that have rolled the clock back for working people and, especially, low-income citizens in the high-income countries. The European authorities (including the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund) are currently accelerating these regressive changes in the weaker Eurozone economies (such as Greece, Spain and Ireland). All of these institutions and many politicians are trying to use the current economic problems of Europe as a pretext to enact rightwing reforms.Polls show more than 70% support for France's strikers, despite the inconvenience of fuel shortages and other disruptions. The French are already sick of their rightist government, and that is also part of what is generating the protests. Despite the recent electoral weakness of the Socialist party, France has a stronger left than many other countries do, and one that has the ability and willingness to organise mass protest, work stoppages and educational campaigns. The French are, in effect, fighting for the future of Europe \u2013 and it is a good example for others. We can only hope that, here in the United States, we will be able to beat back any proposed cuts to our much less generous social security system, with attacks on benefits looming on the horizon.", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Welfare", "European Union", "Tax and spending", "Retirement age", "Pensions", "Europe", "Benefits"], "title": "Sarkozy should retire, says France | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-14T11:09:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "I was brought up without religion. For as long as I can remember, my mother always insisted she would \"let me decide about such matters when old enough to make up my mind\". By choosing to bring me up this way she broke new ground \u2013 I am part of the first generation of my French family not to get baptised and not to be enrolled at Sunday school. My family seems to have gradually lost faith, or at least lost any sustained interest in it, during the past 25 years.At no point did my mother ever discourage me from exploring faith systems. We would visit churches, and she'd answer any questions I would have. I was taught in school, at length during my history classes, about Christianity, Islam and Judaism. But I never found any need for God. I recently developed a healthy enthusiasm for the Society of Friends, and enjoy reading about small factions of believers such as the Mennonites, or the Amish. But I remain an atheist, and my core political beliefs are resolutely secularist.Thinking back about my relationship with religion, two memories stand out. In the first, I am spending a Saturday afternoon at my neighbour's house. He's my best friend, and we are no older than 10. His is an observant Catholic-Portuguese family, his parents having immigrated to France during Ant\u00f3nio de Oliveira Salazar's dictatorship in the 1960s. We're upstairs in his sister's bedroom, when a part of a necklace we were admiring drops and rolls under the bed. We rush to the floor to look for it, without much luck. Panicked, my friend exclaims: \"Well, we have to pray to Saint Antoine de Padoue. That will help!\" I raise an eyebrow, and he explains that the saint in question \"helps you find lost things\" \u2013 and that his family prays to him often. Having never heard of him before, I just think it's another of his quirky family's antics.The second anecdote takes place little less than a year later, when another close friend shares her excitement following her confirmation. She tells me about the day she spent with other kids from our class and their families, and how nervous she felt beforehand. What struck me then, however, was the long list of presents which followed, proudly enumerated by my friend: \"jewellery, a lot of sweets, a lot of money from different family members, clothes and, best of all, a brand new CD player\" (CD players were quite the new thing at the time). \"And you got those just for going to church?\" I asked, not without a tinge of jealousy. \"Pretty much,\" she replied.Soon after confirmation, hormones and school crushes replaced Sunday school for most of my friends, who didn't set foot in a church for years afterwards. I suppose it was felt that baptism, communion and confirmation were things that \"had to be done\", but church attendance beyond those events wasn't enforced. Parents rarely went to church themselves once their last child was confirmed; the strict minimum had been completed.Of the vast majority of my classmates at the time, my neighbour is one of the few who remains an enthusiastic believer. But his \u2013 and his parents' \u2013 faith wasn't affected or constrained by what my young mind interpreted to be appearances or external pressures. Their faith just is. It is earnest and accompanies them all week long, not just on Sundays, in everything they do. It was noticeable from the crucifix in my neighbour's bedroom, to his mother's endearing superstitions and the epic tales about his father completing pilgrimages (he had once even walked the last 200 metres to the Chapel of Apparitions in Fatima on his knees, as custom requires. I was told it hurt quite a bit, and remember being in awe of that \u2013 without completely understanding it).The fact that his family originated from a country with far stronger Catholic roots than in France, which, as part of its history boasts a bloody revolt against clerics as a high point of its political foundation, surely played an important part in their faith's vibrancy. Religion in Portugal strikes me as part of the very cultural fabric of the country, whereas pride in any belief in France is seldom shouted from the rooftops.The last time I talked to a young person who was proudly practising was at university; she was a very stereotypical conservative student with a very bourgeois upbringing, who had been to Catholic summer camps throughout her teenage years \u2013 a true rarity. The rest of the people with a religious background that I knew were either lapsed Catholics, agnostics, or very much kept their belief to themselves. Their parents gave up on churchgoing and Bible studies long ago, too busy paying the bills to find the time for devotion. It just skipped their minds.As to the question, \"Is God disappearing?\", I can only think that French Christianity is indeed fading because it is upheld by families whose hearts are not deeply committed to it as part of their heritage. I'm not sure it is a bad thing, either: why keep up half-baked social pretences just for the sake of it?I recently asked my beloved grandmother, who is in her mid-90s, whether she still believed in God. She hesitated, and said: \"Not really \u2026 but when I am gone, I still want a religious burial.\" I suppose that some cultural attachments to tradition are deeply comforting and will remain. I doubt those will still exist a few generations from now.", "tags": ["Christianity", "Religion", "Atheism", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Christianity in France is fading | Jessica Reed"},{"date": "2010-10-20T19:59:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "The demonstrations that have rocked France this past week highlight some of its differences from the United States. The photo here, for example shows the difference between rioting in baseball-playing versus soccer-playing countries. In the US, we would pick up the tear gas canister and throw it, rather than kick it, back at the police.More importantly, the French have decided to take to the streets in the millions \u2013 including large-scale strikes and work stoppages \u2013 to defend hard-won retirement gains. (It must be emphasised, since the media sometimes forgets to make the distinction, that only a tiny percentage of France's demonstrators have engaged in any kind of property damage and even fewer in violence, with all but these few protesting peacefully.) French populist rage is being directed in a positive direction \u2013 unlike in the United States where it is most prominently being mobilised to elect political candidates who will do their best to increase the suffering of working- and middle-class citizens. I have to admit, though, that it was perplexing to watch the French elect Nicolas Sarkozy president in 2007, a man who campaigned on the idea that France had to make its economy more \"efficient\", like America's. In reality, he couldn't have picked a worse time to peddle this mumbo-jumbo. The housing bubble was already bursting in the United States and would soon cause not only our own Great Recession, but also drag most of the world economy into the swamp with it. So much for that particular model of economic dynamism.But Sarkozy had a lot of help from the major media, which was quite enchanted with the American model at the time and helped promote a number of myths that formed part of his campaign. Among these were the idea that French social protections and employment benefits were \"unaffordable in a global economy\", and that employers would hire more people if it were easier to fire them, and if taxes were cut for the rich. Sarkozy has recently abandoned one of his most politically unpopular tax cuts for the rich, but there may be others. But he had also promised not to raise the retirement age for the public pension system. This has contributed to the mass outrage at his current proposal to raise it from 60 to 62, for those taking the reduced benefits, and from 65 to 67, for full benefits. (Under the US social security system, most people opt for the reduced benefit that is available beginning at age 62; full benefits are available, for those born after 1959, at 67.)Once again, most of the media thinks the French are being unrealistic, and should just get with the programme like everyone else. The argument is that life expectancy is increasing, so we all have to work longer. But this is a bit like reporting half of a baseball score (or soccer, if you prefer). On the other side is the fact that productivity and GDP also increase over time, and so it is indeed possible for the French to choose to spend more years in retirement and pay for it. France's retirement age was last set in 1983. Since then, GDP per person has increased by 45%. The increase in life expectancy is very small by comparison. The number of workers per retiree declined from 4.4 in 1983 to 3.5 in 2010, but the growth of national income was vastly more than enough to compensate for the demographic changes, including the change in life expectancy.The situation is similar going forward: the growth in national income over the next 30 or 40 years will be much more than sufficient to pay for the increases in pension costs due to demographic changes, while still allowing future generations to enjoy considerably higher living standards than people today. It is simply a social choice as to how many years people want to live in retirement and how they want to pay for it. If the French want to keep the retirement age as is, there are plenty of ways to finance future pension costs without necessarily raising the retirement age. One of them, which has support among the French left (and which Sarkozy claims to support at the international level), would be a tax on financial transactions. Such a \"speculation tax\" could raise billions of dollars of revenue \u2013 as it currently does in the UK \u2013 while simultaneously discouraging speculative trading in financial assets and derivatives. The French unions and protesters are demanding that the government considers some of these more progressive alternatives.It is, therefore, perfectly reasonable to expect that as life expectancy increases, workers should be able to spend more of the lives in retirement. And that is what most French citizens expect. They may not have seen all the arithmetic, but they grasp intuitively that as a country grows richer year after year, they should not have to spend more of their lives working.An increase in the retirement age is a highly regressive cut that will hit working people hardest. Poorer workers have shorter life expectancies and would lose a higher proportion of their retirement years. Workers who have to retire early because of unemployment or other hardships will take a benefit cut as a result of this change. And, of course, this cut would not matter to the richest people in society, who do not rely on the public pension system for most of their retirement income.France has a lower level of inequality than most OECD countries and is one of only five \u2013 out of 30 OECD countries \u2013 that saw inequality decrease (pdf) from the mid 1980s to the mid 2000s. It also had the largest decrease in inequality in the group, although all of it was from the mid 80s to the mid 90s. France has, until now, resisted at least some of the changes that have rolled the clock back for working people and, especially, low-income citizens in the high-income countries. The European authorities (including the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund) are currently accelerating these regressive changes in the weaker Eurozone economies (such as Greece, Spain and Ireland). All of these institutions and many politicians are trying to use the current economic problems of Europe as a pretext to enact rightwing reforms.Polls show more than 70% support for France's strikers, despite the inconvenience of fuel shortages and other disruptions. The French are already sick of their rightist government, and that is also part of what is generating the protests. Despite the recent electoral weakness of the Socialist party, France has a stronger left than many other countries do, and one that has the ability and willingness to organise mass protest, work stoppages and educational campaigns. The French are, in effect, fighting for the future of Europe \u2013 and it is a good example for others. We can only hope that, here in the United States, we will be able to beat back any proposed cuts to our much less generous social security system, with attacks on benefits looming on the horizon.", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Welfare", "European Union", "Tax and spending", "Retirement age", "Pensions", "Europe", "Benefits"], "title": "Sarkozy should retire, says France | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-14T11:09:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "I was brought up without religion. For as long as I can remember, my mother always insisted she would \"let me decide about such matters when old enough to make up my mind\". By choosing to bring me up this way she broke new ground \u2013 I am part of the first generation of my French family not to get baptised and not to be enrolled at Sunday school. My family seems to have gradually lost faith, or at least lost any sustained interest in it, during the past 25 years.At no point did my mother ever discourage me from exploring faith systems. We would visit churches, and she'd answer any questions I would have. I was taught in school, at length during my history classes, about Christianity, Islam and Judaism. But I never found any need for God. I recently developed a healthy enthusiasm for the Society of Friends, and enjoy reading about small factions of believers such as the Mennonites, or the Amish. But I remain an atheist, and my core political beliefs are resolutely secularist.Thinking back about my relationship with religion, two memories stand out. In the first, I am spending a Saturday afternoon at my neighbour's house. He's my best friend, and we are no older than 10. His is an observant Catholic-Portuguese family, his parents having immigrated to France during Ant\u00f3nio de Oliveira Salazar's dictatorship in the 1960s. We're upstairs in his sister's bedroom, when a part of a necklace we were admiring drops and rolls under the bed. We rush to the floor to look for it, without much luck. Panicked, my friend exclaims: \"Well, we have to pray to Saint Antoine de Padoue. That will help!\" I raise an eyebrow, and he explains that the saint in question \"helps you find lost things\" \u2013 and that his family prays to him often. Having never heard of him before, I just think it's another of his quirky family's antics.The second anecdote takes place little less than a year later, when another close friend shares her excitement following her confirmation. She tells me about the day she spent with other kids from our class and their families, and how nervous she felt beforehand. What struck me then, however, was the long list of presents which followed, proudly enumerated by my friend: \"jewellery, a lot of sweets, a lot of money from different family members, clothes and, best of all, a brand new CD player\" (CD players were quite the new thing at the time). \"And you got those just for going to church?\" I asked, not without a tinge of jealousy. \"Pretty much,\" she replied.Soon after confirmation, hormones and school crushes replaced Sunday school for most of my friends, who didn't set foot in a church for years afterwards. I suppose it was felt that baptism, communion and confirmation were things that \"had to be done\", but church attendance beyond those events wasn't enforced. Parents rarely went to church themselves once their last child was confirmed; the strict minimum had been completed.Of the vast majority of my classmates at the time, my neighbour is one of the few who remains an enthusiastic believer. But his \u2013 and his parents' \u2013 faith wasn't affected or constrained by what my young mind interpreted to be appearances or external pressures. Their faith just is. It is earnest and accompanies them all week long, not just on Sundays, in everything they do. It was noticeable from the crucifix in my neighbour's bedroom, to his mother's endearing superstitions and the epic tales about his father completing pilgrimages (he had once even walked the last 200 metres to the Chapel of Apparitions in Fatima on his knees, as custom requires. I was told it hurt quite a bit, and remember being in awe of that \u2013 without completely understanding it).The fact that his family originated from a country with far stronger Catholic roots than in France, which, as part of its history boasts a bloody revolt against clerics as a high point of its political foundation, surely played an important part in their faith's vibrancy. Religion in Portugal strikes me as part of the very cultural fabric of the country, whereas pride in any belief in France is seldom shouted from the rooftops.The last time I talked to a young person who was proudly practising was at university; she was a very stereotypical conservative student with a very bourgeois upbringing, who had been to Catholic summer camps throughout her teenage years \u2013 a true rarity. The rest of the people with a religious background that I knew were either lapsed Catholics, agnostics, or very much kept their belief to themselves. Their parents gave up on churchgoing and Bible studies long ago, too busy paying the bills to find the time for devotion. It just skipped their minds.As to the question, \"Is God disappearing?\", I can only think that French Christianity is indeed fading because it is upheld by families whose hearts are not deeply committed to it as part of their heritage. I'm not sure it is a bad thing, either: why keep up half-baked social pretences just for the sake of it?I recently asked my beloved grandmother, who is in her mid-90s, whether she still believed in God. She hesitated, and said: \"Not really \u2026 but when I am gone, I still want a religious burial.\" I suppose that some cultural attachments to tradition are deeply comforting and will remain. I doubt those will still exist a few generations from now.", "tags": ["Christianity", "Religion", "Atheism", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Christianity in France is fading | Jessica Reed"},{"date": "2010-10-12T11:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "Teachers, train drivers, oil refinery workers and other French employees downed tools today as unions launched a last-ditch attempt to force the president, Nicolas Sarkozy, into a climbdown on his flagship pensions reform.As the controversial bill nears the end of its passage through parliament, opponents of the plans vowed to put on their biggest show of defiance yet - despite today's day of industrial action being the fourth since last month.\"This is one of our last chances because the parliamentary calendar is drawing to a close,\" said Fran\u00e7ois Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que of the CFDT (French Democratic Confederation of Labour), speaking on France 2 television.Hundreds of tourists visiting the Eiffel Tower were ushered away this morning after workers there voted to join the strike, forcing early closure. It was expected to reopen tomorrow.Refinery workers also walked off the job, leading one union to warn of looming gasoline shortages, while another labour leader warned that employees from across different sectors were determined to stay away from work indefinitely if the government doesn't back down.\"Today there will again be a very high mobilisation,\" Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que said this morning. \"It is incomprehensible that the government is not budging on unions' demands.\"In a bid to ramp up the rebellion, which could climax this afternoon in a moving protest from Montparnasse to Bastille, some unions have declared rolling strikes that could last days if not weeks. They are determined to prove the president was wrong when, in 2008, he said that \"no one notices\" when there is a strike in contemporary France.The area of action likely to be of most concern to the government, which has made only minor concessions in its reform so far and has repeatedly said it will not row back on the bill's main components, is that affecting French oil refineries. The workers at eight of the country's 12 plants have downed tools. Five of Total's six refineries were blocked. Employees at France's biggest refinery, at Gonfreville-l'Orcher in Normandy, voted this morning to go on a rolling strike. Production would be \"minimal\" and no fuel would enter or leave until further notice, said a spokesman.Across the country transport links ground to a halt, with operators of the high-speed TGV trains slashing services and civil aviation authorities announcing cancellations of half of all flights at Paris-Orly airport and a third of the total at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle.In the capital, hire bike stands stood empty as people took to the roads instead of braving the packed underground, despite assurances from the transport authorities that most M\u00e9tro lines were running smoothly. The morning rush hour brought parts of the city's ring road, full of commuters in their cars, to a grinding halt.Speaking on a French radio news programme \u2013 whose question of the day was \"Who holds the power in France: the parliament or the street?'\" \u2013 the leader of the French Socialists in the national assembly, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said he believed the day would bring proof that the unions' had the upper hand over the government.\"This movement is getting more and more powerful and it has already brought home one victory: that of education,\" he said. Since June, he explained, many people had \"realised this reform is completely unfair\".One demographic which the unions claimed to have won over today was that of France's youth, which was showing its opposition to the reforms today alongside their teachers, around 22% of whom did not show up to work, according to the education ministry. Unions put the figure at around 48%.In Paris, about a third of lyc\u00e9es were shut, while hundreds of school children protested in the streets of towns and cities such as Bordeaux. A banner unfurled over the Lyc\u00e9e Jules Ferry in Paris's 9th arrondissement read: \"We don't want to lose our lives by earning a living.\"", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "World news", "Air transport", "Road transport", "Rail transport", "Europe"], "title": "France braced for strike disruption"},{"date": "2010-10-20T19:59:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "The demonstrations that have rocked France this past week highlight some of its differences from the United States. The photo here, for example shows the difference between rioting in baseball-playing versus soccer-playing countries. In the US, we would pick up the tear gas canister and throw it, rather than kick it, back at the police.More importantly, the French have decided to take to the streets in the millions \u2013 including large-scale strikes and work stoppages \u2013 to defend hard-won retirement gains. (It must be emphasised, since the media sometimes forgets to make the distinction, that only a tiny percentage of France's demonstrators have engaged in any kind of property damage and even fewer in violence, with all but these few protesting peacefully.) French populist rage is being directed in a positive direction \u2013 unlike in the United States where it is most prominently being mobilised to elect political candidates who will do their best to increase the suffering of working- and middle-class citizens. I have to admit, though, that it was perplexing to watch the French elect Nicolas Sarkozy president in 2007, a man who campaigned on the idea that France had to make its economy more \"efficient\", like America's. In reality, he couldn't have picked a worse time to peddle this mumbo-jumbo. The housing bubble was already bursting in the United States and would soon cause not only our own Great Recession, but also drag most of the world economy into the swamp with it. So much for that particular model of economic dynamism.But Sarkozy had a lot of help from the major media, which was quite enchanted with the American model at the time and helped promote a number of myths that formed part of his campaign. Among these were the idea that French social protections and employment benefits were \"unaffordable in a global economy\", and that employers would hire more people if it were easier to fire them, and if taxes were cut for the rich. Sarkozy has recently abandoned one of his most politically unpopular tax cuts for the rich, but there may be others. But he had also promised not to raise the retirement age for the public pension system. This has contributed to the mass outrage at his current proposal to raise it from 60 to 62, for those taking the reduced benefits, and from 65 to 67, for full benefits. (Under the US social security system, most people opt for the reduced benefit that is available beginning at age 62; full benefits are available, for those born after 1959, at 67.)Once again, most of the media thinks the French are being unrealistic, and should just get with the programme like everyone else. The argument is that life expectancy is increasing, so we all have to work longer. But this is a bit like reporting half of a baseball score (or soccer, if you prefer). On the other side is the fact that productivity and GDP also increase over time, and so it is indeed possible for the French to choose to spend more years in retirement and pay for it. France's retirement age was last set in 1983. Since then, GDP per person has increased by 45%. The increase in life expectancy is very small by comparison. The number of workers per retiree declined from 4.4 in 1983 to 3.5 in 2010, but the growth of national income was vastly more than enough to compensate for the demographic changes, including the change in life expectancy.The situation is similar going forward: the growth in national income over the next 30 or 40 years will be much more than sufficient to pay for the increases in pension costs due to demographic changes, while still allowing future generations to enjoy considerably higher living standards than people today. It is simply a social choice as to how many years people want to live in retirement and how they want to pay for it. If the French want to keep the retirement age as is, there are plenty of ways to finance future pension costs without necessarily raising the retirement age. One of them, which has support among the French left (and which Sarkozy claims to support at the international level), would be a tax on financial transactions. Such a \"speculation tax\" could raise billions of dollars of revenue \u2013 as it currently does in the UK \u2013 while simultaneously discouraging speculative trading in financial assets and derivatives. The French unions and protesters are demanding that the government considers some of these more progressive alternatives.It is, therefore, perfectly reasonable to expect that as life expectancy increases, workers should be able to spend more of the lives in retirement. And that is what most French citizens expect. They may not have seen all the arithmetic, but they grasp intuitively that as a country grows richer year after year, they should not have to spend more of their lives working.An increase in the retirement age is a highly regressive cut that will hit working people hardest. Poorer workers have shorter life expectancies and would lose a higher proportion of their retirement years. Workers who have to retire early because of unemployment or other hardships will take a benefit cut as a result of this change. And, of course, this cut would not matter to the richest people in society, who do not rely on the public pension system for most of their retirement income.France has a lower level of inequality than most OECD countries and is one of only five \u2013 out of 30 OECD countries \u2013 that saw inequality decrease (pdf) from the mid 1980s to the mid 2000s. It also had the largest decrease in inequality in the group, although all of it was from the mid 80s to the mid 90s. France has, until now, resisted at least some of the changes that have rolled the clock back for working people and, especially, low-income citizens in the high-income countries. The European authorities (including the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund) are currently accelerating these regressive changes in the weaker Eurozone economies (such as Greece, Spain and Ireland). All of these institutions and many politicians are trying to use the current economic problems of Europe as a pretext to enact rightwing reforms.Polls show more than 70% support for France's strikers, despite the inconvenience of fuel shortages and other disruptions. The French are already sick of their rightist government, and that is also part of what is generating the protests. Despite the recent electoral weakness of the Socialist party, France has a stronger left than many other countries do, and one that has the ability and willingness to organise mass protest, work stoppages and educational campaigns. The French are, in effect, fighting for the future of Europe \u2013 and it is a good example for others. We can only hope that, here in the United States, we will be able to beat back any proposed cuts to our much less generous social security system, with attacks on benefits looming on the horizon.", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Welfare", "European Union", "Tax and spending", "Retirement age", "Pensions", "Europe", "Benefits"], "title": "Sarkozy should retire, says France | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-14T11:09:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "I was brought up without religion. For as long as I can remember, my mother always insisted she would \"let me decide about such matters when old enough to make up my mind\". By choosing to bring me up this way she broke new ground \u2013 I am part of the first generation of my French family not to get baptised and not to be enrolled at Sunday school. My family seems to have gradually lost faith, or at least lost any sustained interest in it, during the past 25 years.At no point did my mother ever discourage me from exploring faith systems. We would visit churches, and she'd answer any questions I would have. I was taught in school, at length during my history classes, about Christianity, Islam and Judaism. But I never found any need for God. I recently developed a healthy enthusiasm for the Society of Friends, and enjoy reading about small factions of believers such as the Mennonites, or the Amish. But I remain an atheist, and my core political beliefs are resolutely secularist.Thinking back about my relationship with religion, two memories stand out. In the first, I am spending a Saturday afternoon at my neighbour's house. He's my best friend, and we are no older than 10. His is an observant Catholic-Portuguese family, his parents having immigrated to France during Ant\u00f3nio de Oliveira Salazar's dictatorship in the 1960s. We're upstairs in his sister's bedroom, when a part of a necklace we were admiring drops and rolls under the bed. We rush to the floor to look for it, without much luck. Panicked, my friend exclaims: \"Well, we have to pray to Saint Antoine de Padoue. That will help!\" I raise an eyebrow, and he explains that the saint in question \"helps you find lost things\" \u2013 and that his family prays to him often. Having never heard of him before, I just think it's another of his quirky family's antics.The second anecdote takes place little less than a year later, when another close friend shares her excitement following her confirmation. She tells me about the day she spent with other kids from our class and their families, and how nervous she felt beforehand. What struck me then, however, was the long list of presents which followed, proudly enumerated by my friend: \"jewellery, a lot of sweets, a lot of money from different family members, clothes and, best of all, a brand new CD player\" (CD players were quite the new thing at the time). \"And you got those just for going to church?\" I asked, not without a tinge of jealousy. \"Pretty much,\" she replied.Soon after confirmation, hormones and school crushes replaced Sunday school for most of my friends, who didn't set foot in a church for years afterwards. I suppose it was felt that baptism, communion and confirmation were things that \"had to be done\", but church attendance beyond those events wasn't enforced. Parents rarely went to church themselves once their last child was confirmed; the strict minimum had been completed.Of the vast majority of my classmates at the time, my neighbour is one of the few who remains an enthusiastic believer. But his \u2013 and his parents' \u2013 faith wasn't affected or constrained by what my young mind interpreted to be appearances or external pressures. Their faith just is. It is earnest and accompanies them all week long, not just on Sundays, in everything they do. It was noticeable from the crucifix in my neighbour's bedroom, to his mother's endearing superstitions and the epic tales about his father completing pilgrimages (he had once even walked the last 200 metres to the Chapel of Apparitions in Fatima on his knees, as custom requires. I was told it hurt quite a bit, and remember being in awe of that \u2013 without completely understanding it).The fact that his family originated from a country with far stronger Catholic roots than in France, which, as part of its history boasts a bloody revolt against clerics as a high point of its political foundation, surely played an important part in their faith's vibrancy. Religion in Portugal strikes me as part of the very cultural fabric of the country, whereas pride in any belief in France is seldom shouted from the rooftops.The last time I talked to a young person who was proudly practising was at university; she was a very stereotypical conservative student with a very bourgeois upbringing, who had been to Catholic summer camps throughout her teenage years \u2013 a true rarity. The rest of the people with a religious background that I knew were either lapsed Catholics, agnostics, or very much kept their belief to themselves. Their parents gave up on churchgoing and Bible studies long ago, too busy paying the bills to find the time for devotion. It just skipped their minds.As to the question, \"Is God disappearing?\", I can only think that French Christianity is indeed fading because it is upheld by families whose hearts are not deeply committed to it as part of their heritage. I'm not sure it is a bad thing, either: why keep up half-baked social pretences just for the sake of it?I recently asked my beloved grandmother, who is in her mid-90s, whether she still believed in God. She hesitated, and said: \"Not really \u2026 but when I am gone, I still want a religious burial.\" I suppose that some cultural attachments to tradition are deeply comforting and will remain. I doubt those will still exist a few generations from now.", "tags": ["Christianity", "Religion", "Atheism", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Christianity in France is fading | Jessica Reed"},{"date": "2010-10-12T11:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "Teachers, train drivers, oil refinery workers and other French employees downed tools today as unions launched a last-ditch attempt to force the president, Nicolas Sarkozy, into a climbdown on his flagship pensions reform.As the controversial bill nears the end of its passage through parliament, opponents of the plans vowed to put on their biggest show of defiance yet - despite today's day of industrial action being the fourth since last month.\"This is one of our last chances because the parliamentary calendar is drawing to a close,\" said Fran\u00e7ois Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que of the CFDT (French Democratic Confederation of Labour), speaking on France 2 television.Hundreds of tourists visiting the Eiffel Tower were ushered away this morning after workers there voted to join the strike, forcing early closure. It was expected to reopen tomorrow.Refinery workers also walked off the job, leading one union to warn of looming gasoline shortages, while another labour leader warned that employees from across different sectors were determined to stay away from work indefinitely if the government doesn't back down.\"Today there will again be a very high mobilisation,\" Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que said this morning. \"It is incomprehensible that the government is not budging on unions' demands.\"In a bid to ramp up the rebellion, which could climax this afternoon in a moving protest from Montparnasse to Bastille, some unions have declared rolling strikes that could last days if not weeks. They are determined to prove the president was wrong when, in 2008, he said that \"no one notices\" when there is a strike in contemporary France.The area of action likely to be of most concern to the government, which has made only minor concessions in its reform so far and has repeatedly said it will not row back on the bill's main components, is that affecting French oil refineries. The workers at eight of the country's 12 plants have downed tools. Five of Total's six refineries were blocked. Employees at France's biggest refinery, at Gonfreville-l'Orcher in Normandy, voted this morning to go on a rolling strike. Production would be \"minimal\" and no fuel would enter or leave until further notice, said a spokesman.Across the country transport links ground to a halt, with operators of the high-speed TGV trains slashing services and civil aviation authorities announcing cancellations of half of all flights at Paris-Orly airport and a third of the total at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle.In the capital, hire bike stands stood empty as people took to the roads instead of braving the packed underground, despite assurances from the transport authorities that most M\u00e9tro lines were running smoothly. The morning rush hour brought parts of the city's ring road, full of commuters in their cars, to a grinding halt.Speaking on a French radio news programme \u2013 whose question of the day was \"Who holds the power in France: the parliament or the street?'\" \u2013 the leader of the French Socialists in the national assembly, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said he believed the day would bring proof that the unions' had the upper hand over the government.\"This movement is getting more and more powerful and it has already brought home one victory: that of education,\" he said. Since June, he explained, many people had \"realised this reform is completely unfair\".One demographic which the unions claimed to have won over today was that of France's youth, which was showing its opposition to the reforms today alongside their teachers, around 22% of whom did not show up to work, according to the education ministry. Unions put the figure at around 48%.In Paris, about a third of lyc\u00e9es were shut, while hundreds of school children protested in the streets of towns and cities such as Bordeaux. A banner unfurled over the Lyc\u00e9e Jules Ferry in Paris's 9th arrondissement read: \"We don't want to lose our lives by earning a living.\"", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "World news", "Air transport", "Road transport", "Rail transport", "Europe"], "title": "France braced for strike disruption"},{"date": "2010-10-06T09:58:35Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has told citizens visiting the UK to exercise caution, warning that a terrorist attack on public transport or tourist sites is \"highly likely\".In a notice on the defence ministry website, the French authorities said: \"We advise [travellers] to be extremely vigilant on public transport and at popular tourist sites.\"The alert came days after the UK said there was \"a high threat of terrorism\" in France and Germany, and the US warned its citizens to stay away from high-profile sites in EuropeYesterday, French security forces arrested 11 suspected Islamic extremists in raids across southern France, although officials downplayed any link with the increased terror alerts.The French interior minister, Brice Hortefeux, said: \"Yes, there is a terrorist threat at the moment in Europe. It must be neither overestimated nor underestimated.\" .Anti-terrorist police detained eight people in Marseille and Avignon after an investigation into a Paris-based Islamic organisation. Separately, three people were held near Bordeaux and Marseille, amid growing fears of a strike by north Africa-based militants affiliated to al-Qaida.France has been on its second-highest alert against a possible terrorist attack for the past fortnight. The US government, in a warning repeated by Britain, issued a travel alert for Europe at the weekend.Speculation has centred on Germany as a target, apparently based on information a captured German militant gave US interrogators in Kabul. Berlin has been dismissive, however, insisting there is no intelligence to warrant an increased alert level.Germany's interior minister, Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, said today he saw no indications of any imminent terror attack on Germany. \"No one should doubt that Germany is a target for terrorists, but on the other hand there are no concrete, immediate attack plans that we are aware of,\" he told Deutschlandfunk radio.French police said they found a Kalashnikov submachine gun, a pump-action shotgun and ammunition during the raids. The detainees are suspected of arms trafficking. They are being investigated for alleged links with \"criminals linked to a terrorist organisation\".In the second operation, two men were arrested in Marseille and one in Bordeaux. Their details were found on the mobile phone of a French-Algerian man, Ryad Hannouni, 28, who was arrested on Saturday in Naples. He is suspected of leading an Islamist extremist group sending youngsters to fight in Afghanistan. Italian police reportedly found a bomb-making kit at his home.Le Figaro said the three men arrested in the second French operation were suspected of finding accommodation and producing false papers for militants returning to France from the Afghan-Pakistan border region.Since militants executed a French hostage in north-west Africa in July, Paris has become more embroiled in conflict with the group al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (Aqim), last month warning of possible attacks in Europe, senior European sources said.A US drone killed five Germans in the Afghan-Pakistan border area on Monday, Pakistani sources said. German authorities declined to confirm details. Officials in Germany have been scathing about what they see as US alarmism before midterm elections in November.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "UK news", "Germany", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Al-Qaida", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "France issues UK terror alert"},{"date": "2010-10-20T19:59:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "The demonstrations that have rocked France this past week highlight some of its differences from the United States. The photo here, for example shows the difference between rioting in baseball-playing versus soccer-playing countries. In the US, we would pick up the tear gas canister and throw it, rather than kick it, back at the police.More importantly, the French have decided to take to the streets in the millions \u2013 including large-scale strikes and work stoppages \u2013 to defend hard-won retirement gains. (It must be emphasised, since the media sometimes forgets to make the distinction, that only a tiny percentage of France's demonstrators have engaged in any kind of property damage and even fewer in violence, with all but these few protesting peacefully.) French populist rage is being directed in a positive direction \u2013 unlike in the United States where it is most prominently being mobilised to elect political candidates who will do their best to increase the suffering of working- and middle-class citizens. I have to admit, though, that it was perplexing to watch the French elect Nicolas Sarkozy president in 2007, a man who campaigned on the idea that France had to make its economy more \"efficient\", like America's. In reality, he couldn't have picked a worse time to peddle this mumbo-jumbo. The housing bubble was already bursting in the United States and would soon cause not only our own Great Recession, but also drag most of the world economy into the swamp with it. So much for that particular model of economic dynamism.But Sarkozy had a lot of help from the major media, which was quite enchanted with the American model at the time and helped promote a number of myths that formed part of his campaign. Among these were the idea that French social protections and employment benefits were \"unaffordable in a global economy\", and that employers would hire more people if it were easier to fire them, and if taxes were cut for the rich. Sarkozy has recently abandoned one of his most politically unpopular tax cuts for the rich, but there may be others. But he had also promised not to raise the retirement age for the public pension system. This has contributed to the mass outrage at his current proposal to raise it from 60 to 62, for those taking the reduced benefits, and from 65 to 67, for full benefits. (Under the US social security system, most people opt for the reduced benefit that is available beginning at age 62; full benefits are available, for those born after 1959, at 67.)Once again, most of the media thinks the French are being unrealistic, and should just get with the programme like everyone else. The argument is that life expectancy is increasing, so we all have to work longer. But this is a bit like reporting half of a baseball score (or soccer, if you prefer). On the other side is the fact that productivity and GDP also increase over time, and so it is indeed possible for the French to choose to spend more years in retirement and pay for it. France's retirement age was last set in 1983. Since then, GDP per person has increased by 45%. The increase in life expectancy is very small by comparison. The number of workers per retiree declined from 4.4 in 1983 to 3.5 in 2010, but the growth of national income was vastly more than enough to compensate for the demographic changes, including the change in life expectancy.The situation is similar going forward: the growth in national income over the next 30 or 40 years will be much more than sufficient to pay for the increases in pension costs due to demographic changes, while still allowing future generations to enjoy considerably higher living standards than people today. It is simply a social choice as to how many years people want to live in retirement and how they want to pay for it. If the French want to keep the retirement age as is, there are plenty of ways to finance future pension costs without necessarily raising the retirement age. One of them, which has support among the French left (and which Sarkozy claims to support at the international level), would be a tax on financial transactions. Such a \"speculation tax\" could raise billions of dollars of revenue \u2013 as it currently does in the UK \u2013 while simultaneously discouraging speculative trading in financial assets and derivatives. The French unions and protesters are demanding that the government considers some of these more progressive alternatives.It is, therefore, perfectly reasonable to expect that as life expectancy increases, workers should be able to spend more of the lives in retirement. And that is what most French citizens expect. They may not have seen all the arithmetic, but they grasp intuitively that as a country grows richer year after year, they should not have to spend more of their lives working.An increase in the retirement age is a highly regressive cut that will hit working people hardest. Poorer workers have shorter life expectancies and would lose a higher proportion of their retirement years. Workers who have to retire early because of unemployment or other hardships will take a benefit cut as a result of this change. And, of course, this cut would not matter to the richest people in society, who do not rely on the public pension system for most of their retirement income.France has a lower level of inequality than most OECD countries and is one of only five \u2013 out of 30 OECD countries \u2013 that saw inequality decrease (pdf) from the mid 1980s to the mid 2000s. It also had the largest decrease in inequality in the group, although all of it was from the mid 80s to the mid 90s. France has, until now, resisted at least some of the changes that have rolled the clock back for working people and, especially, low-income citizens in the high-income countries. The European authorities (including the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund) are currently accelerating these regressive changes in the weaker Eurozone economies (such as Greece, Spain and Ireland). All of these institutions and many politicians are trying to use the current economic problems of Europe as a pretext to enact rightwing reforms.Polls show more than 70% support for France's strikers, despite the inconvenience of fuel shortages and other disruptions. The French are already sick of their rightist government, and that is also part of what is generating the protests. Despite the recent electoral weakness of the Socialist party, France has a stronger left than many other countries do, and one that has the ability and willingness to organise mass protest, work stoppages and educational campaigns. The French are, in effect, fighting for the future of Europe \u2013 and it is a good example for others. We can only hope that, here in the United States, we will be able to beat back any proposed cuts to our much less generous social security system, with attacks on benefits looming on the horizon.", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Welfare", "European Union", "Tax and spending", "Retirement age", "Pensions", "Europe", "Benefits"], "title": "Sarkozy should retire, says France | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-14T11:09:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "I was brought up without religion. For as long as I can remember, my mother always insisted she would \"let me decide about such matters when old enough to make up my mind\". By choosing to bring me up this way she broke new ground \u2013 I am part of the first generation of my French family not to get baptised and not to be enrolled at Sunday school. My family seems to have gradually lost faith, or at least lost any sustained interest in it, during the past 25 years.At no point did my mother ever discourage me from exploring faith systems. We would visit churches, and she'd answer any questions I would have. I was taught in school, at length during my history classes, about Christianity, Islam and Judaism. But I never found any need for God. I recently developed a healthy enthusiasm for the Society of Friends, and enjoy reading about small factions of believers such as the Mennonites, or the Amish. But I remain an atheist, and my core political beliefs are resolutely secularist.Thinking back about my relationship with religion, two memories stand out. In the first, I am spending a Saturday afternoon at my neighbour's house. He's my best friend, and we are no older than 10. His is an observant Catholic-Portuguese family, his parents having immigrated to France during Ant\u00f3nio de Oliveira Salazar's dictatorship in the 1960s. We're upstairs in his sister's bedroom, when a part of a necklace we were admiring drops and rolls under the bed. We rush to the floor to look for it, without much luck. Panicked, my friend exclaims: \"Well, we have to pray to Saint Antoine de Padoue. That will help!\" I raise an eyebrow, and he explains that the saint in question \"helps you find lost things\" \u2013 and that his family prays to him often. Having never heard of him before, I just think it's another of his quirky family's antics.The second anecdote takes place little less than a year later, when another close friend shares her excitement following her confirmation. She tells me about the day she spent with other kids from our class and their families, and how nervous she felt beforehand. What struck me then, however, was the long list of presents which followed, proudly enumerated by my friend: \"jewellery, a lot of sweets, a lot of money from different family members, clothes and, best of all, a brand new CD player\" (CD players were quite the new thing at the time). \"And you got those just for going to church?\" I asked, not without a tinge of jealousy. \"Pretty much,\" she replied.Soon after confirmation, hormones and school crushes replaced Sunday school for most of my friends, who didn't set foot in a church for years afterwards. I suppose it was felt that baptism, communion and confirmation were things that \"had to be done\", but church attendance beyond those events wasn't enforced. Parents rarely went to church themselves once their last child was confirmed; the strict minimum had been completed.Of the vast majority of my classmates at the time, my neighbour is one of the few who remains an enthusiastic believer. But his \u2013 and his parents' \u2013 faith wasn't affected or constrained by what my young mind interpreted to be appearances or external pressures. Their faith just is. It is earnest and accompanies them all week long, not just on Sundays, in everything they do. It was noticeable from the crucifix in my neighbour's bedroom, to his mother's endearing superstitions and the epic tales about his father completing pilgrimages (he had once even walked the last 200 metres to the Chapel of Apparitions in Fatima on his knees, as custom requires. I was told it hurt quite a bit, and remember being in awe of that \u2013 without completely understanding it).The fact that his family originated from a country with far stronger Catholic roots than in France, which, as part of its history boasts a bloody revolt against clerics as a high point of its political foundation, surely played an important part in their faith's vibrancy. Religion in Portugal strikes me as part of the very cultural fabric of the country, whereas pride in any belief in France is seldom shouted from the rooftops.The last time I talked to a young person who was proudly practising was at university; she was a very stereotypical conservative student with a very bourgeois upbringing, who had been to Catholic summer camps throughout her teenage years \u2013 a true rarity. The rest of the people with a religious background that I knew were either lapsed Catholics, agnostics, or very much kept their belief to themselves. Their parents gave up on churchgoing and Bible studies long ago, too busy paying the bills to find the time for devotion. It just skipped their minds.As to the question, \"Is God disappearing?\", I can only think that French Christianity is indeed fading because it is upheld by families whose hearts are not deeply committed to it as part of their heritage. I'm not sure it is a bad thing, either: why keep up half-baked social pretences just for the sake of it?I recently asked my beloved grandmother, who is in her mid-90s, whether she still believed in God. She hesitated, and said: \"Not really \u2026 but when I am gone, I still want a religious burial.\" I suppose that some cultural attachments to tradition are deeply comforting and will remain. I doubt those will still exist a few generations from now.", "tags": ["Christianity", "Religion", "Atheism", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Christianity in France is fading | Jessica Reed"},{"date": "2010-10-12T11:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "Teachers, train drivers, oil refinery workers and other French employees downed tools today as unions launched a last-ditch attempt to force the president, Nicolas Sarkozy, into a climbdown on his flagship pensions reform.As the controversial bill nears the end of its passage through parliament, opponents of the plans vowed to put on their biggest show of defiance yet - despite today's day of industrial action being the fourth since last month.\"This is one of our last chances because the parliamentary calendar is drawing to a close,\" said Fran\u00e7ois Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que of the CFDT (French Democratic Confederation of Labour), speaking on France 2 television.Hundreds of tourists visiting the Eiffel Tower were ushered away this morning after workers there voted to join the strike, forcing early closure. It was expected to reopen tomorrow.Refinery workers also walked off the job, leading one union to warn of looming gasoline shortages, while another labour leader warned that employees from across different sectors were determined to stay away from work indefinitely if the government doesn't back down.\"Today there will again be a very high mobilisation,\" Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que said this morning. \"It is incomprehensible that the government is not budging on unions' demands.\"In a bid to ramp up the rebellion, which could climax this afternoon in a moving protest from Montparnasse to Bastille, some unions have declared rolling strikes that could last days if not weeks. They are determined to prove the president was wrong when, in 2008, he said that \"no one notices\" when there is a strike in contemporary France.The area of action likely to be of most concern to the government, which has made only minor concessions in its reform so far and has repeatedly said it will not row back on the bill's main components, is that affecting French oil refineries. The workers at eight of the country's 12 plants have downed tools. Five of Total's six refineries were blocked. Employees at France's biggest refinery, at Gonfreville-l'Orcher in Normandy, voted this morning to go on a rolling strike. Production would be \"minimal\" and no fuel would enter or leave until further notice, said a spokesman.Across the country transport links ground to a halt, with operators of the high-speed TGV trains slashing services and civil aviation authorities announcing cancellations of half of all flights at Paris-Orly airport and a third of the total at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle.In the capital, hire bike stands stood empty as people took to the roads instead of braving the packed underground, despite assurances from the transport authorities that most M\u00e9tro lines were running smoothly. The morning rush hour brought parts of the city's ring road, full of commuters in their cars, to a grinding halt.Speaking on a French radio news programme \u2013 whose question of the day was \"Who holds the power in France: the parliament or the street?'\" \u2013 the leader of the French Socialists in the national assembly, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said he believed the day would bring proof that the unions' had the upper hand over the government.\"This movement is getting more and more powerful and it has already brought home one victory: that of education,\" he said. Since June, he explained, many people had \"realised this reform is completely unfair\".One demographic which the unions claimed to have won over today was that of France's youth, which was showing its opposition to the reforms today alongside their teachers, around 22% of whom did not show up to work, according to the education ministry. Unions put the figure at around 48%.In Paris, about a third of lyc\u00e9es were shut, while hundreds of school children protested in the streets of towns and cities such as Bordeaux. A banner unfurled over the Lyc\u00e9e Jules Ferry in Paris's 9th arrondissement read: \"We don't want to lose our lives by earning a living.\"", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "World news", "Air transport", "Road transport", "Rail transport", "Europe"], "title": "France braced for strike disruption"},{"date": "2010-10-06T09:58:35Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has told citizens visiting the UK to exercise caution, warning that a terrorist attack on public transport or tourist sites is \"highly likely\".In a notice on the defence ministry website, the French authorities said: \"We advise [travellers] to be extremely vigilant on public transport and at popular tourist sites.\"The alert came days after the UK said there was \"a high threat of terrorism\" in France and Germany, and the US warned its citizens to stay away from high-profile sites in EuropeYesterday, French security forces arrested 11 suspected Islamic extremists in raids across southern France, although officials downplayed any link with the increased terror alerts.The French interior minister, Brice Hortefeux, said: \"Yes, there is a terrorist threat at the moment in Europe. It must be neither overestimated nor underestimated.\" .Anti-terrorist police detained eight people in Marseille and Avignon after an investigation into a Paris-based Islamic organisation. Separately, three people were held near Bordeaux and Marseille, amid growing fears of a strike by north Africa-based militants affiliated to al-Qaida.France has been on its second-highest alert against a possible terrorist attack for the past fortnight. The US government, in a warning repeated by Britain, issued a travel alert for Europe at the weekend.Speculation has centred on Germany as a target, apparently based on information a captured German militant gave US interrogators in Kabul. Berlin has been dismissive, however, insisting there is no intelligence to warrant an increased alert level.Germany's interior minister, Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, said today he saw no indications of any imminent terror attack on Germany. \"No one should doubt that Germany is a target for terrorists, but on the other hand there are no concrete, immediate attack plans that we are aware of,\" he told Deutschlandfunk radio.French police said they found a Kalashnikov submachine gun, a pump-action shotgun and ammunition during the raids. The detainees are suspected of arms trafficking. They are being investigated for alleged links with \"criminals linked to a terrorist organisation\".In the second operation, two men were arrested in Marseille and one in Bordeaux. Their details were found on the mobile phone of a French-Algerian man, Ryad Hannouni, 28, who was arrested on Saturday in Naples. He is suspected of leading an Islamist extremist group sending youngsters to fight in Afghanistan. Italian police reportedly found a bomb-making kit at his home.Le Figaro said the three men arrested in the second French operation were suspected of finding accommodation and producing false papers for militants returning to France from the Afghan-Pakistan border region.Since militants executed a French hostage in north-west Africa in July, Paris has become more embroiled in conflict with the group al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (Aqim), last month warning of possible attacks in Europe, senior European sources said.A US drone killed five Germans in the Afghan-Pakistan border area on Monday, Pakistani sources said. German authorities declined to confirm details. Officials in Germany have been scathing about what they see as US alarmism before midterm elections in November.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "UK news", "Germany", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Al-Qaida", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "France issues UK terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-16T00:01:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "Ever since their last king was overthrown in 1848, a small number of unreconciled citizens of the French republic \u2013 along with several of its bestselling magazines \u2013 have yearned for the monarchy's return. There is sensibly little support among the majority of French people for such a reactionary fantasy. Yet France now has a rare opportunity to have the best of both worlds \u2013 upholding its republicanism while also doing full honours to one of its greatest monarchs. The scientific confirmation that an embalmed head in the possession of a private collector belongs to King Henri IV means that the relic can now be restored to a proper place in the royal chapel of Saint-Denis, from which it was disinterred during the revolution. If the skull had been that of his descendant Louis XVI, who was separated from his head on what is today a traffic island in the Place de la Concorde, the idea of a solemn reinterment attended by the president would even now be a politically controversial step. But Henri IV rightly retains a place of honour in French hearts, right and left, as the man who brought the country's religious wars to a close, introduced one of the most remarkable measures of religious freedom of the 16th century, rebuilt the French economy and dreamed of creating a network of long-term alliances that some admirers have seen as a forerunner of the European Union. By all means let his remains be returned to Saint-Denis. But if ever there was a king who deserved to rest in the national Panth\u00e9on, it is Henri IV.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 Henri IV of France | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-10-20T19:59:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "The demonstrations that have rocked France this past week highlight some of its differences from the United States. The photo here, for example shows the difference between rioting in baseball-playing versus soccer-playing countries. In the US, we would pick up the tear gas canister and throw it, rather than kick it, back at the police.More importantly, the French have decided to take to the streets in the millions \u2013 including large-scale strikes and work stoppages \u2013 to defend hard-won retirement gains. (It must be emphasised, since the media sometimes forgets to make the distinction, that only a tiny percentage of France's demonstrators have engaged in any kind of property damage and even fewer in violence, with all but these few protesting peacefully.) French populist rage is being directed in a positive direction \u2013 unlike in the United States where it is most prominently being mobilised to elect political candidates who will do their best to increase the suffering of working- and middle-class citizens. I have to admit, though, that it was perplexing to watch the French elect Nicolas Sarkozy president in 2007, a man who campaigned on the idea that France had to make its economy more \"efficient\", like America's. In reality, he couldn't have picked a worse time to peddle this mumbo-jumbo. The housing bubble was already bursting in the United States and would soon cause not only our own Great Recession, but also drag most of the world economy into the swamp with it. So much for that particular model of economic dynamism.But Sarkozy had a lot of help from the major media, which was quite enchanted with the American model at the time and helped promote a number of myths that formed part of his campaign. Among these were the idea that French social protections and employment benefits were \"unaffordable in a global economy\", and that employers would hire more people if it were easier to fire them, and if taxes were cut for the rich. Sarkozy has recently abandoned one of his most politically unpopular tax cuts for the rich, but there may be others. But he had also promised not to raise the retirement age for the public pension system. This has contributed to the mass outrage at his current proposal to raise it from 60 to 62, for those taking the reduced benefits, and from 65 to 67, for full benefits. (Under the US social security system, most people opt for the reduced benefit that is available beginning at age 62; full benefits are available, for those born after 1959, at 67.)Once again, most of the media thinks the French are being unrealistic, and should just get with the programme like everyone else. The argument is that life expectancy is increasing, so we all have to work longer. But this is a bit like reporting half of a baseball score (or soccer, if you prefer). On the other side is the fact that productivity and GDP also increase over time, and so it is indeed possible for the French to choose to spend more years in retirement and pay for it. France's retirement age was last set in 1983. Since then, GDP per person has increased by 45%. The increase in life expectancy is very small by comparison. The number of workers per retiree declined from 4.4 in 1983 to 3.5 in 2010, but the growth of national income was vastly more than enough to compensate for the demographic changes, including the change in life expectancy.The situation is similar going forward: the growth in national income over the next 30 or 40 years will be much more than sufficient to pay for the increases in pension costs due to demographic changes, while still allowing future generations to enjoy considerably higher living standards than people today. It is simply a social choice as to how many years people want to live in retirement and how they want to pay for it. If the French want to keep the retirement age as is, there are plenty of ways to finance future pension costs without necessarily raising the retirement age. One of them, which has support among the French left (and which Sarkozy claims to support at the international level), would be a tax on financial transactions. Such a \"speculation tax\" could raise billions of dollars of revenue \u2013 as it currently does in the UK \u2013 while simultaneously discouraging speculative trading in financial assets and derivatives. The French unions and protesters are demanding that the government considers some of these more progressive alternatives.It is, therefore, perfectly reasonable to expect that as life expectancy increases, workers should be able to spend more of the lives in retirement. And that is what most French citizens expect. They may not have seen all the arithmetic, but they grasp intuitively that as a country grows richer year after year, they should not have to spend more of their lives working.An increase in the retirement age is a highly regressive cut that will hit working people hardest. Poorer workers have shorter life expectancies and would lose a higher proportion of their retirement years. Workers who have to retire early because of unemployment or other hardships will take a benefit cut as a result of this change. And, of course, this cut would not matter to the richest people in society, who do not rely on the public pension system for most of their retirement income.France has a lower level of inequality than most OECD countries and is one of only five \u2013 out of 30 OECD countries \u2013 that saw inequality decrease (pdf) from the mid 1980s to the mid 2000s. It also had the largest decrease in inequality in the group, although all of it was from the mid 80s to the mid 90s. France has, until now, resisted at least some of the changes that have rolled the clock back for working people and, especially, low-income citizens in the high-income countries. The European authorities (including the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund) are currently accelerating these regressive changes in the weaker Eurozone economies (such as Greece, Spain and Ireland). All of these institutions and many politicians are trying to use the current economic problems of Europe as a pretext to enact rightwing reforms.Polls show more than 70% support for France's strikers, despite the inconvenience of fuel shortages and other disruptions. The French are already sick of their rightist government, and that is also part of what is generating the protests. Despite the recent electoral weakness of the Socialist party, France has a stronger left than many other countries do, and one that has the ability and willingness to organise mass protest, work stoppages and educational campaigns. The French are, in effect, fighting for the future of Europe \u2013 and it is a good example for others. We can only hope that, here in the United States, we will be able to beat back any proposed cuts to our much less generous social security system, with attacks on benefits looming on the horizon.", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Welfare", "European Union", "Tax and spending", "Retirement age", "Pensions", "Europe", "Benefits"], "title": "Sarkozy should retire, says France | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-14T11:09:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "I was brought up without religion. For as long as I can remember, my mother always insisted she would \"let me decide about such matters when old enough to make up my mind\". By choosing to bring me up this way she broke new ground \u2013 I am part of the first generation of my French family not to get baptised and not to be enrolled at Sunday school. My family seems to have gradually lost faith, or at least lost any sustained interest in it, during the past 25 years.At no point did my mother ever discourage me from exploring faith systems. We would visit churches, and she'd answer any questions I would have. I was taught in school, at length during my history classes, about Christianity, Islam and Judaism. But I never found any need for God. I recently developed a healthy enthusiasm for the Society of Friends, and enjoy reading about small factions of believers such as the Mennonites, or the Amish. But I remain an atheist, and my core political beliefs are resolutely secularist.Thinking back about my relationship with religion, two memories stand out. In the first, I am spending a Saturday afternoon at my neighbour's house. He's my best friend, and we are no older than 10. His is an observant Catholic-Portuguese family, his parents having immigrated to France during Ant\u00f3nio de Oliveira Salazar's dictatorship in the 1960s. We're upstairs in his sister's bedroom, when a part of a necklace we were admiring drops and rolls under the bed. We rush to the floor to look for it, without much luck. Panicked, my friend exclaims: \"Well, we have to pray to Saint Antoine de Padoue. That will help!\" I raise an eyebrow, and he explains that the saint in question \"helps you find lost things\" \u2013 and that his family prays to him often. Having never heard of him before, I just think it's another of his quirky family's antics.The second anecdote takes place little less than a year later, when another close friend shares her excitement following her confirmation. She tells me about the day she spent with other kids from our class and their families, and how nervous she felt beforehand. What struck me then, however, was the long list of presents which followed, proudly enumerated by my friend: \"jewellery, a lot of sweets, a lot of money from different family members, clothes and, best of all, a brand new CD player\" (CD players were quite the new thing at the time). \"And you got those just for going to church?\" I asked, not without a tinge of jealousy. \"Pretty much,\" she replied.Soon after confirmation, hormones and school crushes replaced Sunday school for most of my friends, who didn't set foot in a church for years afterwards. I suppose it was felt that baptism, communion and confirmation were things that \"had to be done\", but church attendance beyond those events wasn't enforced. Parents rarely went to church themselves once their last child was confirmed; the strict minimum had been completed.Of the vast majority of my classmates at the time, my neighbour is one of the few who remains an enthusiastic believer. But his \u2013 and his parents' \u2013 faith wasn't affected or constrained by what my young mind interpreted to be appearances or external pressures. Their faith just is. It is earnest and accompanies them all week long, not just on Sundays, in everything they do. It was noticeable from the crucifix in my neighbour's bedroom, to his mother's endearing superstitions and the epic tales about his father completing pilgrimages (he had once even walked the last 200 metres to the Chapel of Apparitions in Fatima on his knees, as custom requires. I was told it hurt quite a bit, and remember being in awe of that \u2013 without completely understanding it).The fact that his family originated from a country with far stronger Catholic roots than in France, which, as part of its history boasts a bloody revolt against clerics as a high point of its political foundation, surely played an important part in their faith's vibrancy. Religion in Portugal strikes me as part of the very cultural fabric of the country, whereas pride in any belief in France is seldom shouted from the rooftops.The last time I talked to a young person who was proudly practising was at university; she was a very stereotypical conservative student with a very bourgeois upbringing, who had been to Catholic summer camps throughout her teenage years \u2013 a true rarity. The rest of the people with a religious background that I knew were either lapsed Catholics, agnostics, or very much kept their belief to themselves. Their parents gave up on churchgoing and Bible studies long ago, too busy paying the bills to find the time for devotion. It just skipped their minds.As to the question, \"Is God disappearing?\", I can only think that French Christianity is indeed fading because it is upheld by families whose hearts are not deeply committed to it as part of their heritage. I'm not sure it is a bad thing, either: why keep up half-baked social pretences just for the sake of it?I recently asked my beloved grandmother, who is in her mid-90s, whether she still believed in God. She hesitated, and said: \"Not really \u2026 but when I am gone, I still want a religious burial.\" I suppose that some cultural attachments to tradition are deeply comforting and will remain. I doubt those will still exist a few generations from now.", "tags": ["Christianity", "Religion", "Atheism", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Christianity in France is fading | Jessica Reed"},{"date": "2010-10-12T11:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "Teachers, train drivers, oil refinery workers and other French employees downed tools today as unions launched a last-ditch attempt to force the president, Nicolas Sarkozy, into a climbdown on his flagship pensions reform.As the controversial bill nears the end of its passage through parliament, opponents of the plans vowed to put on their biggest show of defiance yet - despite today's day of industrial action being the fourth since last month.\"This is one of our last chances because the parliamentary calendar is drawing to a close,\" said Fran\u00e7ois Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que of the CFDT (French Democratic Confederation of Labour), speaking on France 2 television.Hundreds of tourists visiting the Eiffel Tower were ushered away this morning after workers there voted to join the strike, forcing early closure. It was expected to reopen tomorrow.Refinery workers also walked off the job, leading one union to warn of looming gasoline shortages, while another labour leader warned that employees from across different sectors were determined to stay away from work indefinitely if the government doesn't back down.\"Today there will again be a very high mobilisation,\" Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que said this morning. \"It is incomprehensible that the government is not budging on unions' demands.\"In a bid to ramp up the rebellion, which could climax this afternoon in a moving protest from Montparnasse to Bastille, some unions have declared rolling strikes that could last days if not weeks. They are determined to prove the president was wrong when, in 2008, he said that \"no one notices\" when there is a strike in contemporary France.The area of action likely to be of most concern to the government, which has made only minor concessions in its reform so far and has repeatedly said it will not row back on the bill's main components, is that affecting French oil refineries. The workers at eight of the country's 12 plants have downed tools. Five of Total's six refineries were blocked. Employees at France's biggest refinery, at Gonfreville-l'Orcher in Normandy, voted this morning to go on a rolling strike. Production would be \"minimal\" and no fuel would enter or leave until further notice, said a spokesman.Across the country transport links ground to a halt, with operators of the high-speed TGV trains slashing services and civil aviation authorities announcing cancellations of half of all flights at Paris-Orly airport and a third of the total at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle.In the capital, hire bike stands stood empty as people took to the roads instead of braving the packed underground, despite assurances from the transport authorities that most M\u00e9tro lines were running smoothly. The morning rush hour brought parts of the city's ring road, full of commuters in their cars, to a grinding halt.Speaking on a French radio news programme \u2013 whose question of the day was \"Who holds the power in France: the parliament or the street?'\" \u2013 the leader of the French Socialists in the national assembly, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said he believed the day would bring proof that the unions' had the upper hand over the government.\"This movement is getting more and more powerful and it has already brought home one victory: that of education,\" he said. Since June, he explained, many people had \"realised this reform is completely unfair\".One demographic which the unions claimed to have won over today was that of France's youth, which was showing its opposition to the reforms today alongside their teachers, around 22% of whom did not show up to work, according to the education ministry. Unions put the figure at around 48%.In Paris, about a third of lyc\u00e9es were shut, while hundreds of school children protested in the streets of towns and cities such as Bordeaux. A banner unfurled over the Lyc\u00e9e Jules Ferry in Paris's 9th arrondissement read: \"We don't want to lose our lives by earning a living.\"", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "World news", "Air transport", "Road transport", "Rail transport", "Europe"], "title": "France braced for strike disruption"},{"date": "2010-10-06T09:58:35Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has told citizens visiting the UK to exercise caution, warning that a terrorist attack on public transport or tourist sites is \"highly likely\".In a notice on the defence ministry website, the French authorities said: \"We advise [travellers] to be extremely vigilant on public transport and at popular tourist sites.\"The alert came days after the UK said there was \"a high threat of terrorism\" in France and Germany, and the US warned its citizens to stay away from high-profile sites in EuropeYesterday, French security forces arrested 11 suspected Islamic extremists in raids across southern France, although officials downplayed any link with the increased terror alerts.The French interior minister, Brice Hortefeux, said: \"Yes, there is a terrorist threat at the moment in Europe. It must be neither overestimated nor underestimated.\" .Anti-terrorist police detained eight people in Marseille and Avignon after an investigation into a Paris-based Islamic organisation. Separately, three people were held near Bordeaux and Marseille, amid growing fears of a strike by north Africa-based militants affiliated to al-Qaida.France has been on its second-highest alert against a possible terrorist attack for the past fortnight. The US government, in a warning repeated by Britain, issued a travel alert for Europe at the weekend.Speculation has centred on Germany as a target, apparently based on information a captured German militant gave US interrogators in Kabul. Berlin has been dismissive, however, insisting there is no intelligence to warrant an increased alert level.Germany's interior minister, Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, said today he saw no indications of any imminent terror attack on Germany. \"No one should doubt that Germany is a target for terrorists, but on the other hand there are no concrete, immediate attack plans that we are aware of,\" he told Deutschlandfunk radio.French police said they found a Kalashnikov submachine gun, a pump-action shotgun and ammunition during the raids. The detainees are suspected of arms trafficking. They are being investigated for alleged links with \"criminals linked to a terrorist organisation\".In the second operation, two men were arrested in Marseille and one in Bordeaux. Their details were found on the mobile phone of a French-Algerian man, Ryad Hannouni, 28, who was arrested on Saturday in Naples. He is suspected of leading an Islamist extremist group sending youngsters to fight in Afghanistan. Italian police reportedly found a bomb-making kit at his home.Le Figaro said the three men arrested in the second French operation were suspected of finding accommodation and producing false papers for militants returning to France from the Afghan-Pakistan border region.Since militants executed a French hostage in north-west Africa in July, Paris has become more embroiled in conflict with the group al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (Aqim), last month warning of possible attacks in Europe, senior European sources said.A US drone killed five Germans in the Afghan-Pakistan border area on Monday, Pakistani sources said. German authorities declined to confirm details. Officials in Germany have been scathing about what they see as US alarmism before midterm elections in November.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "UK news", "Germany", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Al-Qaida", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "France issues UK terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-16T00:01:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "Ever since their last king was overthrown in 1848, a small number of unreconciled citizens of the French republic \u2013 along with several of its bestselling magazines \u2013 have yearned for the monarchy's return. There is sensibly little support among the majority of French people for such a reactionary fantasy. Yet France now has a rare opportunity to have the best of both worlds \u2013 upholding its republicanism while also doing full honours to one of its greatest monarchs. The scientific confirmation that an embalmed head in the possession of a private collector belongs to King Henri IV means that the relic can now be restored to a proper place in the royal chapel of Saint-Denis, from which it was disinterred during the revolution. If the skull had been that of his descendant Louis XVI, who was separated from his head on what is today a traffic island in the Place de la Concorde, the idea of a solemn reinterment attended by the president would even now be a politically controversial step. But Henri IV rightly retains a place of honour in French hearts, right and left, as the man who brought the country's religious wars to a close, introduced one of the most remarkable measures of religious freedom of the 16th century, rebuilt the French economy and dreamed of creating a network of long-term alliances that some admirers have seen as a forerunner of the European Union. By all means let his remains be returned to Saint-Denis. But if ever there was a king who deserved to rest in the national Panth\u00e9on, it is Henri IV.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 Henri IV of France | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-05T20:00:23Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is bracing for Eric Cantona's bank-run revolution Tuesday, with the government criticising his call for the public to stage a mass cash-withdrawal and the left questioning whether it would have much effect.When the former Manchester United footballer gave a video interview in October calling on citizens to stage a cash-point revolution, protest groups against the financial system decided to coordinate a world-wide withdrawal on December 7, the number of Cantona's lucky shirt.Asked about street demonstrations to protest against government austerity measures, Cantona said: \"We have to change the way we do things nowadays. Talking of revolution, I don't mean we are going to pick up guns and go out to kill people. Revolution is very simple to do nowadays,\" he told the French paper Presse Ocean.\"What's the system? The system revolves around banks. The system is built on the banks' power. So it can be destroyed by the banks. Instead of having three million people going out to demonstrate with a placard, those three million people go to their bank branch, they withdraw their money and the banks crumble.\" He directed people: \"You go to your bank in your village and you withdraw your money.\" But as tens of thousands of people signed up to the online campaigns led by a Franco-Belgian anti-bank protest group, the French government warned against \"Eric Le Rouge\" sticking his nose into economics.Francois Baroin, the budget minister, said: \"It would be funny if it wasn't so tragic.\" FCantona's call to arms was \"grotesque\" and \"not serious\". inance minister Christine Lagarde said witheringly: \"There are those who play football magnificently, I wouldn't dare to try. I think it's best for everyone to stick to their own speciality.\" The director general of BNP Paribas deemed Cantona's appeal \"ill-founded\".Cantona told the daily Liberation that he would heed his own call to withdraw money. \"Given the strange solidarity that has sprung up, yes. On December 7, I'll be at the bank.\" Online supporters have pledged that they will either definitely or probably withdraw cash. They are aiming for a bank-run like that which hit the UK's Northern Rock in 2008.But even the left has queried the idea, saying supporters don't have enough clout to dent the banks.Olivier Besancenot, the French postman who head of the New Anti-capitalist party, said \"I like this desire for revolution. But in reality, the people who would dream of taking part in this don't really have enough money in their accounts.\"In Le Monde, the commentator Pierre-Antoine Delhommais quipped that he hoped Cantona would hire a lorry o withdraw his own \"sacks of cash\", as \"one imagines he hasn't worked for free for all these years, advertising the merits of Bic razors, Nike shoes, Partouche casinos, Neuf Telecom, Lipton Teas, the Renault Laguna or L'Or\u00e9al deodorants.\"", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe", "Eric Cantona"], "title": "France awaits Eric Cantona's cashpoint revolution"},{"date": "2010-10-20T19:59:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "The demonstrations that have rocked France this past week highlight some of its differences from the United States. The photo here, for example shows the difference between rioting in baseball-playing versus soccer-playing countries. In the US, we would pick up the tear gas canister and throw it, rather than kick it, back at the police.More importantly, the French have decided to take to the streets in the millions \u2013 including large-scale strikes and work stoppages \u2013 to defend hard-won retirement gains. (It must be emphasised, since the media sometimes forgets to make the distinction, that only a tiny percentage of France's demonstrators have engaged in any kind of property damage and even fewer in violence, with all but these few protesting peacefully.) French populist rage is being directed in a positive direction \u2013 unlike in the United States where it is most prominently being mobilised to elect political candidates who will do their best to increase the suffering of working- and middle-class citizens. I have to admit, though, that it was perplexing to watch the French elect Nicolas Sarkozy president in 2007, a man who campaigned on the idea that France had to make its economy more \"efficient\", like America's. In reality, he couldn't have picked a worse time to peddle this mumbo-jumbo. The housing bubble was already bursting in the United States and would soon cause not only our own Great Recession, but also drag most of the world economy into the swamp with it. So much for that particular model of economic dynamism.But Sarkozy had a lot of help from the major media, which was quite enchanted with the American model at the time and helped promote a number of myths that formed part of his campaign. Among these were the idea that French social protections and employment benefits were \"unaffordable in a global economy\", and that employers would hire more people if it were easier to fire them, and if taxes were cut for the rich. Sarkozy has recently abandoned one of his most politically unpopular tax cuts for the rich, but there may be others. But he had also promised not to raise the retirement age for the public pension system. This has contributed to the mass outrage at his current proposal to raise it from 60 to 62, for those taking the reduced benefits, and from 65 to 67, for full benefits. (Under the US social security system, most people opt for the reduced benefit that is available beginning at age 62; full benefits are available, for those born after 1959, at 67.)Once again, most of the media thinks the French are being unrealistic, and should just get with the programme like everyone else. The argument is that life expectancy is increasing, so we all have to work longer. But this is a bit like reporting half of a baseball score (or soccer, if you prefer). On the other side is the fact that productivity and GDP also increase over time, and so it is indeed possible for the French to choose to spend more years in retirement and pay for it. France's retirement age was last set in 1983. Since then, GDP per person has increased by 45%. The increase in life expectancy is very small by comparison. The number of workers per retiree declined from 4.4 in 1983 to 3.5 in 2010, but the growth of national income was vastly more than enough to compensate for the demographic changes, including the change in life expectancy.The situation is similar going forward: the growth in national income over the next 30 or 40 years will be much more than sufficient to pay for the increases in pension costs due to demographic changes, while still allowing future generations to enjoy considerably higher living standards than people today. It is simply a social choice as to how many years people want to live in retirement and how they want to pay for it. If the French want to keep the retirement age as is, there are plenty of ways to finance future pension costs without necessarily raising the retirement age. One of them, which has support among the French left (and which Sarkozy claims to support at the international level), would be a tax on financial transactions. Such a \"speculation tax\" could raise billions of dollars of revenue \u2013 as it currently does in the UK \u2013 while simultaneously discouraging speculative trading in financial assets and derivatives. The French unions and protesters are demanding that the government considers some of these more progressive alternatives.It is, therefore, perfectly reasonable to expect that as life expectancy increases, workers should be able to spend more of the lives in retirement. And that is what most French citizens expect. They may not have seen all the arithmetic, but they grasp intuitively that as a country grows richer year after year, they should not have to spend more of their lives working.An increase in the retirement age is a highly regressive cut that will hit working people hardest. Poorer workers have shorter life expectancies and would lose a higher proportion of their retirement years. Workers who have to retire early because of unemployment or other hardships will take a benefit cut as a result of this change. And, of course, this cut would not matter to the richest people in society, who do not rely on the public pension system for most of their retirement income.France has a lower level of inequality than most OECD countries and is one of only five \u2013 out of 30 OECD countries \u2013 that saw inequality decrease (pdf) from the mid 1980s to the mid 2000s. It also had the largest decrease in inequality in the group, although all of it was from the mid 80s to the mid 90s. France has, until now, resisted at least some of the changes that have rolled the clock back for working people and, especially, low-income citizens in the high-income countries. The European authorities (including the European Commission, European Central Bank and International Monetary Fund) are currently accelerating these regressive changes in the weaker Eurozone economies (such as Greece, Spain and Ireland). All of these institutions and many politicians are trying to use the current economic problems of Europe as a pretext to enact rightwing reforms.Polls show more than 70% support for France's strikers, despite the inconvenience of fuel shortages and other disruptions. The French are already sick of their rightist government, and that is also part of what is generating the protests. Despite the recent electoral weakness of the Socialist party, France has a stronger left than many other countries do, and one that has the ability and willingness to organise mass protest, work stoppages and educational campaigns. The French are, in effect, fighting for the future of Europe \u2013 and it is a good example for others. We can only hope that, here in the United States, we will be able to beat back any proposed cuts to our much less generous social security system, with attacks on benefits looming on the horizon.", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Welfare", "European Union", "Tax and spending", "Retirement age", "Pensions", "Europe", "Benefits"], "title": "Sarkozy should retire, says France | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2010-10-14T11:09:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "I was brought up without religion. For as long as I can remember, my mother always insisted she would \"let me decide about such matters when old enough to make up my mind\". By choosing to bring me up this way she broke new ground \u2013 I am part of the first generation of my French family not to get baptised and not to be enrolled at Sunday school. My family seems to have gradually lost faith, or at least lost any sustained interest in it, during the past 25 years.At no point did my mother ever discourage me from exploring faith systems. We would visit churches, and she'd answer any questions I would have. I was taught in school, at length during my history classes, about Christianity, Islam and Judaism. But I never found any need for God. I recently developed a healthy enthusiasm for the Society of Friends, and enjoy reading about small factions of believers such as the Mennonites, or the Amish. But I remain an atheist, and my core political beliefs are resolutely secularist.Thinking back about my relationship with religion, two memories stand out. In the first, I am spending a Saturday afternoon at my neighbour's house. He's my best friend, and we are no older than 10. His is an observant Catholic-Portuguese family, his parents having immigrated to France during Ant\u00f3nio de Oliveira Salazar's dictatorship in the 1960s. We're upstairs in his sister's bedroom, when a part of a necklace we were admiring drops and rolls under the bed. We rush to the floor to look for it, without much luck. Panicked, my friend exclaims: \"Well, we have to pray to Saint Antoine de Padoue. That will help!\" I raise an eyebrow, and he explains that the saint in question \"helps you find lost things\" \u2013 and that his family prays to him often. Having never heard of him before, I just think it's another of his quirky family's antics.The second anecdote takes place little less than a year later, when another close friend shares her excitement following her confirmation. She tells me about the day she spent with other kids from our class and their families, and how nervous she felt beforehand. What struck me then, however, was the long list of presents which followed, proudly enumerated by my friend: \"jewellery, a lot of sweets, a lot of money from different family members, clothes and, best of all, a brand new CD player\" (CD players were quite the new thing at the time). \"And you got those just for going to church?\" I asked, not without a tinge of jealousy. \"Pretty much,\" she replied.Soon after confirmation, hormones and school crushes replaced Sunday school for most of my friends, who didn't set foot in a church for years afterwards. I suppose it was felt that baptism, communion and confirmation were things that \"had to be done\", but church attendance beyond those events wasn't enforced. Parents rarely went to church themselves once their last child was confirmed; the strict minimum had been completed.Of the vast majority of my classmates at the time, my neighbour is one of the few who remains an enthusiastic believer. But his \u2013 and his parents' \u2013 faith wasn't affected or constrained by what my young mind interpreted to be appearances or external pressures. Their faith just is. It is earnest and accompanies them all week long, not just on Sundays, in everything they do. It was noticeable from the crucifix in my neighbour's bedroom, to his mother's endearing superstitions and the epic tales about his father completing pilgrimages (he had once even walked the last 200 metres to the Chapel of Apparitions in Fatima on his knees, as custom requires. I was told it hurt quite a bit, and remember being in awe of that \u2013 without completely understanding it).The fact that his family originated from a country with far stronger Catholic roots than in France, which, as part of its history boasts a bloody revolt against clerics as a high point of its political foundation, surely played an important part in their faith's vibrancy. Religion in Portugal strikes me as part of the very cultural fabric of the country, whereas pride in any belief in France is seldom shouted from the rooftops.The last time I talked to a young person who was proudly practising was at university; she was a very stereotypical conservative student with a very bourgeois upbringing, who had been to Catholic summer camps throughout her teenage years \u2013 a true rarity. The rest of the people with a religious background that I knew were either lapsed Catholics, agnostics, or very much kept their belief to themselves. Their parents gave up on churchgoing and Bible studies long ago, too busy paying the bills to find the time for devotion. It just skipped their minds.As to the question, \"Is God disappearing?\", I can only think that French Christianity is indeed fading because it is upheld by families whose hearts are not deeply committed to it as part of their heritage. I'm not sure it is a bad thing, either: why keep up half-baked social pretences just for the sake of it?I recently asked my beloved grandmother, who is in her mid-90s, whether she still believed in God. She hesitated, and said: \"Not really \u2026 but when I am gone, I still want a religious burial.\" I suppose that some cultural attachments to tradition are deeply comforting and will remain. I doubt those will still exist a few generations from now.", "tags": ["Christianity", "Religion", "Atheism", "France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Christianity in France is fading | Jessica Reed"},{"date": "2010-10-12T11:19:18Z", "country": "france", "content": "Teachers, train drivers, oil refinery workers and other French employees downed tools today as unions launched a last-ditch attempt to force the president, Nicolas Sarkozy, into a climbdown on his flagship pensions reform.As the controversial bill nears the end of its passage through parliament, opponents of the plans vowed to put on their biggest show of defiance yet - despite today's day of industrial action being the fourth since last month.\"This is one of our last chances because the parliamentary calendar is drawing to a close,\" said Fran\u00e7ois Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que of the CFDT (French Democratic Confederation of Labour), speaking on France 2 television.Hundreds of tourists visiting the Eiffel Tower were ushered away this morning after workers there voted to join the strike, forcing early closure. It was expected to reopen tomorrow.Refinery workers also walked off the job, leading one union to warn of looming gasoline shortages, while another labour leader warned that employees from across different sectors were determined to stay away from work indefinitely if the government doesn't back down.\"Today there will again be a very high mobilisation,\" Ch\u00e9r\u00e8que said this morning. \"It is incomprehensible that the government is not budging on unions' demands.\"In a bid to ramp up the rebellion, which could climax this afternoon in a moving protest from Montparnasse to Bastille, some unions have declared rolling strikes that could last days if not weeks. They are determined to prove the president was wrong when, in 2008, he said that \"no one notices\" when there is a strike in contemporary France.The area of action likely to be of most concern to the government, which has made only minor concessions in its reform so far and has repeatedly said it will not row back on the bill's main components, is that affecting French oil refineries. The workers at eight of the country's 12 plants have downed tools. Five of Total's six refineries were blocked. Employees at France's biggest refinery, at Gonfreville-l'Orcher in Normandy, voted this morning to go on a rolling strike. Production would be \"minimal\" and no fuel would enter or leave until further notice, said a spokesman.Across the country transport links ground to a halt, with operators of the high-speed TGV trains slashing services and civil aviation authorities announcing cancellations of half of all flights at Paris-Orly airport and a third of the total at Roissy-Charles de Gaulle.In the capital, hire bike stands stood empty as people took to the roads instead of braving the packed underground, despite assurances from the transport authorities that most M\u00e9tro lines were running smoothly. The morning rush hour brought parts of the city's ring road, full of commuters in their cars, to a grinding halt.Speaking on a French radio news programme \u2013 whose question of the day was \"Who holds the power in France: the parliament or the street?'\" \u2013 the leader of the French Socialists in the national assembly, Jean-Marc Ayrault, said he believed the day would bring proof that the unions' had the upper hand over the government.\"This movement is getting more and more powerful and it has already brought home one victory: that of education,\" he said. Since June, he explained, many people had \"realised this reform is completely unfair\".One demographic which the unions claimed to have won over today was that of France's youth, which was showing its opposition to the reforms today alongside their teachers, around 22% of whom did not show up to work, according to the education ministry. Unions put the figure at around 48%.In Paris, about a third of lyc\u00e9es were shut, while hundreds of school children protested in the streets of towns and cities such as Bordeaux. A banner unfurled over the Lyc\u00e9e Jules Ferry in Paris's 9th arrondissement read: \"We don't want to lose our lives by earning a living.\"", "tags": ["France", "Protest", "World news", "Air transport", "Road transport", "Rail transport", "Europe"], "title": "France braced for strike disruption"},{"date": "2010-10-06T09:58:35Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has told citizens visiting the UK to exercise caution, warning that a terrorist attack on public transport or tourist sites is \"highly likely\".In a notice on the defence ministry website, the French authorities said: \"We advise [travellers] to be extremely vigilant on public transport and at popular tourist sites.\"The alert came days after the UK said there was \"a high threat of terrorism\" in France and Germany, and the US warned its citizens to stay away from high-profile sites in EuropeYesterday, French security forces arrested 11 suspected Islamic extremists in raids across southern France, although officials downplayed any link with the increased terror alerts.The French interior minister, Brice Hortefeux, said: \"Yes, there is a terrorist threat at the moment in Europe. It must be neither overestimated nor underestimated.\" .Anti-terrorist police detained eight people in Marseille and Avignon after an investigation into a Paris-based Islamic organisation. Separately, three people were held near Bordeaux and Marseille, amid growing fears of a strike by north Africa-based militants affiliated to al-Qaida.France has been on its second-highest alert against a possible terrorist attack for the past fortnight. The US government, in a warning repeated by Britain, issued a travel alert for Europe at the weekend.Speculation has centred on Germany as a target, apparently based on information a captured German militant gave US interrogators in Kabul. Berlin has been dismissive, however, insisting there is no intelligence to warrant an increased alert level.Germany's interior minister, Thomas de Maizi\u00e8re, said today he saw no indications of any imminent terror attack on Germany. \"No one should doubt that Germany is a target for terrorists, but on the other hand there are no concrete, immediate attack plans that we are aware of,\" he told Deutschlandfunk radio.French police said they found a Kalashnikov submachine gun, a pump-action shotgun and ammunition during the raids. The detainees are suspected of arms trafficking. They are being investigated for alleged links with \"criminals linked to a terrorist organisation\".In the second operation, two men were arrested in Marseille and one in Bordeaux. Their details were found on the mobile phone of a French-Algerian man, Ryad Hannouni, 28, who was arrested on Saturday in Naples. He is suspected of leading an Islamist extremist group sending youngsters to fight in Afghanistan. Italian police reportedly found a bomb-making kit at his home.Le Figaro said the three men arrested in the second French operation were suspected of finding accommodation and producing false papers for militants returning to France from the Afghan-Pakistan border region.Since militants executed a French hostage in north-west Africa in July, Paris has become more embroiled in conflict with the group al-Qaida in the Islamic Maghreb (Aqim), last month warning of possible attacks in Europe, senior European sources said.A US drone killed five Germans in the Afghan-Pakistan border area on Monday, Pakistani sources said. German authorities declined to confirm details. Officials in Germany have been scathing about what they see as US alarmism before midterm elections in November.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "UK news", "Germany", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Al-Qaida", "Travel", "Europe"], "title": "France issues UK terror alert"},{"date": "2010-12-16T00:01:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "Ever since their last king was overthrown in 1848, a small number of unreconciled citizens of the French republic \u2013 along with several of its bestselling magazines \u2013 have yearned for the monarchy's return. There is sensibly little support among the majority of French people for such a reactionary fantasy. Yet France now has a rare opportunity to have the best of both worlds \u2013 upholding its republicanism while also doing full honours to one of its greatest monarchs. The scientific confirmation that an embalmed head in the possession of a private collector belongs to King Henri IV means that the relic can now be restored to a proper place in the royal chapel of Saint-Denis, from which it was disinterred during the revolution. If the skull had been that of his descendant Louis XVI, who was separated from his head on what is today a traffic island in the Place de la Concorde, the idea of a solemn reinterment attended by the president would even now be a politically controversial step. But Henri IV rightly retains a place of honour in French hearts, right and left, as the man who brought the country's religious wars to a close, introduced one of the most remarkable measures of religious freedom of the 16th century, rebuilt the French economy and dreamed of creating a network of long-term alliances that some admirers have seen as a forerunner of the European Union. By all means let his remains be returned to Saint-Denis. But if ever there was a king who deserved to rest in the national Panth\u00e9on, it is Henri IV.", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "In praise of \u2026 Henri IV of France | Editorial"},{"date": "2010-12-05T20:00:23Z", "country": "france", "content": "France is bracing for Eric Cantona's bank-run revolution Tuesday, with the government criticising his call for the public to stage a mass cash-withdrawal and the left questioning whether it would have much effect.When the former Manchester United footballer gave a video interview in October calling on citizens to stage a cash-point revolution, protest groups against the financial system decided to coordinate a world-wide withdrawal on December 7, the number of Cantona's lucky shirt.Asked about street demonstrations to protest against government austerity measures, Cantona said: \"We have to change the way we do things nowadays. Talking of revolution, I don't mean we are going to pick up guns and go out to kill people. Revolution is very simple to do nowadays,\" he told the French paper Presse Ocean.\"What's the system? The system revolves around banks. The system is built on the banks' power. So it can be destroyed by the banks. Instead of having three million people going out to demonstrate with a placard, those three million people go to their bank branch, they withdraw their money and the banks crumble.\" He directed people: \"You go to your bank in your village and you withdraw your money.\" But as tens of thousands of people signed up to the online campaigns led by a Franco-Belgian anti-bank protest group, the French government warned against \"Eric Le Rouge\" sticking his nose into economics.Francois Baroin, the budget minister, said: \"It would be funny if it wasn't so tragic.\" FCantona's call to arms was \"grotesque\" and \"not serious\". inance minister Christine Lagarde said witheringly: \"There are those who play football magnificently, I wouldn't dare to try. I think it's best for everyone to stick to their own speciality.\" The director general of BNP Paribas deemed Cantona's appeal \"ill-founded\".Cantona told the daily Liberation that he would heed his own call to withdraw money. \"Given the strange solidarity that has sprung up, yes. On December 7, I'll be at the bank.\" Online supporters have pledged that they will either definitely or probably withdraw cash. They are aiming for a bank-run like that which hit the UK's Northern Rock in 2008.But even the left has queried the idea, saying supporters don't have enough clout to dent the banks.Olivier Besancenot, the French postman who head of the New Anti-capitalist party, said \"I like this desire for revolution. But in reality, the people who would dream of taking part in this don't really have enough money in their accounts.\"In Le Monde, the commentator Pierre-Antoine Delhommais quipped that he hoped Cantona would hire a lorry o withdraw his own \"sacks of cash\", as \"one imagines he hasn't worked for free for all these years, advertising the merits of Bic razors, Nike shoes, Partouche casinos, Neuf Telecom, Lipton Teas, the Renault Laguna or L'Or\u00e9al deodorants.\"", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe", "Eric Cantona"], "title": "France awaits Eric Cantona's cashpoint revolution"},{"date": "2010-12-06T16:23:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "Air France Concorde, flight AF 4590, bound for New York, crashes near Paris killing 113 people. It had taken off from Charles de Gaulle airport with flames spewing from its engine before coming down in Gonesse, north of the French capital. All 109 people on board and four on the ground died.French Concorde fleet is grounded pending an investigation into the crash. Some doubt exists as to whether the iconic supersonic jets will fly again.Crash investigators report that a metal strip had fallen from a Continental Airlines DC10 onto the same runway, minutes before the Concorde took off. It was the likely cause of a tyre puncture which started a sequence of events that led to the Concorde exploding.British Airways Concordes resume regular passenger flights after \u00a317m safety programme.BA and Air France announce plans to retire Concorde, bringing an end to nearly 30 years of commercial supersonic travel. A decline in luxury air travel as well as the Paris crash was blamed.A French judge places Continental Airlines under investigation for involuntary manslaughter.Continental Airlines and mechanic, John Taylor, were found guilty of involuntary manslaughter. Taylor was given a 15-month suspended prison sentence and Continental, now part of United Continental Holdings, was fined about \u20ac200,000 ($265,000) and ordered to pay Air France just over \u20ac1m (\u00a3847,000) for damaging its reputation.", "tags": ["Concorde", "Air transport", "France", "US news", "Airline industry", "World news", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Air France Concorde crash investigation timeline"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Champagne might be prohibitively expensive to drink, but it's a great place to visit, with all the major producers used to hosting tours round their cellars. In Epernay, stroll along the recently revamped Avenue de Champagne (termed \"the world's most drinkable address\" by Winston Churchill) and gawp at the 19th-century mansions belonging to the likes of Mo\u00ebt & Chandon (+33 3 2651 2020, moet.com), Mercier, Pol Roger, De Castellane, Perrier-Jou\u00ebt and Boizel. For \u20ac15 you get a tour of Mo\u00ebt's vast, 27km-long cellars and a glass of Mo\u00ebt Brut Imperial.The Rh\u00f4ne Valley is rich in wine, being home to the likes of C\u00f4te-R\u00f4tie and Hermitage in the north and Gigondas and Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape in the south. Do some research on websites such as yapp.co.uk and provencefoodandwine.com beforehand. In the southern Rh\u00f4ne, visit Domaine de Beaurenard in Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape (+33 4 9083 7179, beaurenard.fr) for a fascinating (and free) no-appointment-necessary tasting in their ancient cellars; and in the northern Rh\u00f4ne visit Maison Chapoutier (+33 4 7508 9261, chapoutier.com) in Tain l'Hermitage for the same. And, if you can wait until January next year, head to Ampuis for the four-day-long Foire d'Ampuis (+33 4 7456 1820), where for \u20ac8 you get a free glass and a chance to meet 60 Rh\u00f4ne producers.Travellers to the city of Bordeaux can find the price of even the most basic glass of wine alarming, so beware. The best place in town to get a decent, well-priced drink is Le Bar \u00e0 Vin (3 cours du 30 Juillet, +33 5 5600 4347, baravin.bordeaux.com). A light, spacious wine bar attached to l'Ecole du Vin (+33 5 5600 2285, vins-bordeaux.fr), it could hardly be more central, being a few hundred yards from the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre. It is also full of information about tours through the region as well as wine courses in l'Ecole itself. Heavily subsidised by the CIVB (the Bordeaux producers' association), it has a wide-ranging selection of local wines by the glass at absurdly accessible prices.There is no shortage of places to stay in and around Bordeaux but, again, these can be pricey. Among the best value are the H\u00f4tel de S\u00e8ze and its sister, the H\u00f4tel Royal M\u00e9doc (rue de S\u00e8ze, +33 5 5681 7242, hotelsezemedoc.free.fr). They are right in the heart of the city and are both much favoured by the English wine trade. They're simple and basic but, with rooms starting from \u20ac60 for a double, they're great value. For something a bit more wacky and out-of-town, try the wonderful treehouses (+33 5 5646 2948, naturacabana.fr) in the grounds of the Ch\u00e2teau de Malleret, 15km from Bordeaux. Prices start from \u20ac145 for three in a cabin.Saumur in the heart of the Loire Valley and its vineyards is within easy distance of the Channel ports. If your budget allows, book into the handsome Hotel Anne d'Anjou (+33 2 4167 3030, hotel-anneanjou.com), where rooms start from \u20ac105 per night. If budget doesn't allow, head for the Ile d'Offard in the middle of the river and the Hostel rue de Verden or its neighbouring campsite, Camping de l'Ile d'Offard (\u20ac16 for a two-person pitch, +33 2 4140 3000, cvtloisirs.com). Enjoy the superb local sparkling wines and honeyed chenin blancs and take a tour (and sample the excellent absinthe) at the tiny Combier distillery (48 rue Beaurepaire, +33 2 41 40 23 00, combier.fr).Alsace is a perfect place for pottering about with its Route de Vin (alsace-route-des-vins.com) easily negotiated by bicycle, so long as you're prepared for the occasional steep hill (you're in the foothills of the Vosges here). The region's medieval towns and villages such as Colmar, Obernai, Ribeauvill\u00e9 and Turckheim are absurdly picturesque with cobbled streets and half-timbered houses. Nearly all producers have free tastings for the public, with no obligation to buy. Park your bike at the foot of the main street in Riquewihr and wander up to the clock tower, taking in the various wine shops en route, perhaps stopping for a plate of choucroute \u00e0 l'Alsacienne. Hugel et Fils (3 rue de la Premi\u00e8re Arm\u00e9e, +33 3 8947 9215, hugel.com) is the best place to start.Gascony is a blessed spot, whose inhabitants, despite enjoying a diet rich in foie gras and confit de canard, boast lower levels of heart disease than anyone else in France and live an average five years longer. They put this down to their wines. Stay at British-owned Domaine de Lauroux (+33 5 6208 5676, lauroux.com), where a g\u00eete for six starts at \u20ac600 per week, and explore the region. Visit Bastide d'Armagnac (labastide-darmagnac.net) with its enchanting square colonnaded central place; Notre-Dame des Cyclistes (notredamedescyclistes.net), a tiny 11th-century chapel where Tour de France competitors come to pray; the exquisite hamlet of Larressingle (and taste its equally exquisite armagnac \u2013 tinyurl.com/6z7yo22); the food market of Eauze and buy foie gras, croustade and armagnac direct from artisan producers. (tourisme-gers.com).Go hiking on Les Calanques, the limestone cliffs with jaw-dropping views that run along the Mediterranean coast between Marseille and Cassis. Scramble down to an isolated cove for a gentle swim and a languorous picnic. Be sure to pack some bottles of Provence's hidden vinous gems in your basket, such as Cassis, Bandol, Palette and Bellet. Cassis itself is a delight, a bustling fishing port with dozens of restaurants, each attempting to outdo the other with their pistou soup and bouillabaisse. Enjoy them with Cassis wine (of which there are only 14 producers), a heady blend of marsanne, clairette and ugni blanc, and not to be confused with the blackcurrant cr\u00e8me de cassis.Corsica might seem a bit off-piste but the wines are increasingly fine (and remain excellent value) and the island itself is a bewitching spot with snow-capped mountains, rugged granite hills, flower-strewn meadows and pristine sandy beaches. Head for the hills around Sart\u00e8ne and seek out the delicate local ros\u00e9s. Or stop at roadside taverns to scoff wild boar salami and figatellu (liver sausage made from the local Corsican black pig), washed down with aromatic, herb-tinged reds made from the strange-sounding nielluccio and sciaccarellu grapes. And if you make it to Cap Corse in the far north, seek out the luscious, lip-smacking dessert muscats, long thought to be the island's crowning glory. Producers to look out for include Domaine Saparale (saparale.com), Domaine Torraccia and Domaine Pieretti (vinpieretti.com).Being in northern France, Montreuil-sur-Mer isn't in wine country at all. It is, though, home to the French outpost of the Wine Society (01438 741177, winesociety.com) and, as such, well worth a visit. Close to both Calais and Boulogne, it is easily accessible from the UK and ideal for a day trip. You can save a minimum \u00a318 a case by buying from here rather than the Wine Society's shop in Stevenage, and with over 200 wines to choose from there's no shortage of choice. A return on Eurotunnel (08443 353535, eurotunnel.com), plus petrol, plus lunch for two, comes to around \u00a390; the saving on buying five cases of wine is \u00a390. Enjoy a day for free in France!", "tags": ["France holidays", "Wine", "Food and drink", "Bordeaux holidays", "Corsica holidays", "Travel", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Budget wine trips in France"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Champagne might be prohibitively expensive to drink, but it's a great place to visit, with all the major producers used to hosting tours round their cellars. In Epernay, stroll along the recently revamped Avenue de Champagne (termed \"the world's most drinkable address\" by Winston Churchill) and gawp at the 19th-century mansions belonging to the likes of Mo\u00ebt & Chandon (+33 3 2651 2020, moet.com), Mercier, Pol Roger, De Castellane, Perrier-Jou\u00ebt and Boizel. For \u20ac15 you get a tour of Mo\u00ebt's vast, 27km-long cellars and a glass of Mo\u00ebt Brut Imperial.The Rh\u00f4ne Valley is rich in wine, being home to the likes of C\u00f4te-R\u00f4tie and Hermitage in the north and Gigondas and Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape in the south. Do some research on websites such as yapp.co.uk and provencefoodandwine.com beforehand. In the southern Rh\u00f4ne, visit Domaine de Beaurenard in Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape (+33 4 9083 7179, beaurenard.fr) for a fascinating (and free) no-appointment-necessary tasting in their ancient cellars; and in the northern Rh\u00f4ne visit Maison Chapoutier (+33 4 7508 9261, chapoutier.com) in Tain l'Hermitage for the same. And, if you can wait until January next year, head to Ampuis for the four-day-long Foire d'Ampuis (+33 4 7456 1820), where for \u20ac8 you get a free glass and a chance to meet 60 Rh\u00f4ne producers.Travellers to the city of Bordeaux can find the price of even the most basic glass of wine alarming, so beware. The best place in town to get a decent, well-priced drink is Le Bar \u00e0 Vin (3 cours du 30 Juillet, +33 5 5600 4347, baravin.bordeaux.com). A light, spacious wine bar attached to l'Ecole du Vin (+33 5 5600 2285, vins-bordeaux.fr), it could hardly be more central, being a few hundred yards from the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre. It is also full of information about tours through the region as well as wine courses in l'Ecole itself. Heavily subsidised by the CIVB (the Bordeaux producers' association), it has a wide-ranging selection of local wines by the glass at absurdly accessible prices.There is no shortage of places to stay in and around Bordeaux but, again, these can be pricey. Among the best value are the H\u00f4tel de S\u00e8ze and its sister, the H\u00f4tel Royal M\u00e9doc (rue de S\u00e8ze, +33 5 5681 7242, hotelsezemedoc.free.fr). They are right in the heart of the city and are both much favoured by the English wine trade. They're simple and basic but, with rooms starting from \u20ac60 for a double, they're great value. For something a bit more wacky and out-of-town, try the wonderful treehouses (+33 5 5646 2948, naturacabana.fr) in the grounds of the Ch\u00e2teau de Malleret, 15km from Bordeaux. Prices start from \u20ac145 for three in a cabin.Saumur in the heart of the Loire Valley and its vineyards is within easy distance of the Channel ports. If your budget allows, book into the handsome Hotel Anne d'Anjou (+33 2 4167 3030, hotel-anneanjou.com), where rooms start from \u20ac105 per night. If budget doesn't allow, head for the Ile d'Offard in the middle of the river and the Hostel rue de Verden or its neighbouring campsite, Camping de l'Ile d'Offard (\u20ac16 for a two-person pitch, +33 2 4140 3000, cvtloisirs.com). Enjoy the superb local sparkling wines and honeyed chenin blancs and take a tour (and sample the excellent absinthe) at the tiny Combier distillery (48 rue Beaurepaire, +33 2 41 40 23 00, combier.fr).Alsace is a perfect place for pottering about with its Route de Vin (alsace-route-des-vins.com) easily negotiated by bicycle, so long as you're prepared for the occasional steep hill (you're in the foothills of the Vosges here). The region's medieval towns and villages such as Colmar, Obernai, Ribeauvill\u00e9 and Turckheim are absurdly picturesque with cobbled streets and half-timbered houses. Nearly all producers have free tastings for the public, with no obligation to buy. Park your bike at the foot of the main street in Riquewihr and wander up to the clock tower, taking in the various wine shops en route, perhaps stopping for a plate of choucroute \u00e0 l'Alsacienne. Hugel et Fils (3 rue de la Premi\u00e8re Arm\u00e9e, +33 3 8947 9215, hugel.com) is the best place to start.Gascony is a blessed spot, whose inhabitants, despite enjoying a diet rich in foie gras and confit de canard, boast lower levels of heart disease than anyone else in France and live an average five years longer. They put this down to their wines. Stay at British-owned Domaine de Lauroux (+33 5 6208 5676, lauroux.com), where a g\u00eete for six starts at \u20ac600 per week, and explore the region. Visit Bastide d'Armagnac (labastide-darmagnac.net) with its enchanting square colonnaded central place; Notre-Dame des Cyclistes (notredamedescyclistes.net), a tiny 11th-century chapel where Tour de France competitors come to pray; the exquisite hamlet of Larressingle (and taste its equally exquisite armagnac \u2013 tinyurl.com/6z7yo22); the food market of Eauze and buy foie gras, croustade and armagnac direct from artisan producers. (tourisme-gers.com).Go hiking on Les Calanques, the limestone cliffs with jaw-dropping views that run along the Mediterranean coast between Marseille and Cassis. Scramble down to an isolated cove for a gentle swim and a languorous picnic. Be sure to pack some bottles of Provence's hidden vinous gems in your basket, such as Cassis, Bandol, Palette and Bellet. Cassis itself is a delight, a bustling fishing port with dozens of restaurants, each attempting to outdo the other with their pistou soup and bouillabaisse. Enjoy them with Cassis wine (of which there are only 14 producers), a heady blend of marsanne, clairette and ugni blanc, and not to be confused with the blackcurrant cr\u00e8me de cassis.Corsica might seem a bit off-piste but the wines are increasingly fine (and remain excellent value) and the island itself is a bewitching spot with snow-capped mountains, rugged granite hills, flower-strewn meadows and pristine sandy beaches. Head for the hills around Sart\u00e8ne and seek out the delicate local ros\u00e9s. Or stop at roadside taverns to scoff wild boar salami and figatellu (liver sausage made from the local Corsican black pig), washed down with aromatic, herb-tinged reds made from the strange-sounding nielluccio and sciaccarellu grapes. And if you make it to Cap Corse in the far north, seek out the luscious, lip-smacking dessert muscats, long thought to be the island's crowning glory. Producers to look out for include Domaine Saparale (saparale.com), Domaine Torraccia and Domaine Pieretti (vinpieretti.com).Being in northern France, Montreuil-sur-Mer isn't in wine country at all. It is, though, home to the French outpost of the Wine Society (01438 741177, winesociety.com) and, as such, well worth a visit. Close to both Calais and Boulogne, it is easily accessible from the UK and ideal for a day trip. You can save a minimum \u00a318 a case by buying from here rather than the Wine Society's shop in Stevenage, and with over 200 wines to choose from there's no shortage of choice. A return on Eurotunnel (08443 353535, eurotunnel.com), plus petrol, plus lunch for two, comes to around \u00a390; the saving on buying five cases of wine is \u00a390. Enjoy a day for free in France!", "tags": ["France holidays", "Wine", "Food and drink", "Bordeaux holidays", "Corsica holidays", "Travel", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Budget wine trips in France"},{"date": "2011-01-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"We don't have a stronger friend and stronger ally than Nicolas Sarkozy, and the French people\" Barack Obama said today. Uh oh. No sooner had he done so than Washington-based British analyst Nile Gardiner rushed to his keyboard to blog for the Daily Telegraph: \"Quite what the French have done to merit this kind of high praise from the US president is difficult to fathom, and if the White House means what it says this represents an extraordinary sea change in US foreign policy.\" Touchy, aren't we?He goes on, outraged: \"To suggest that Paris and not London is Washington's strongest partner is simply ludicrous.\" And finishes, seemingly frothing at the mouth: \"No US president in modern times has described France as America's closest ally, and such a remark is not only factually wrong but also insulting to Britain, not least coming just a few years after the French famously knifed Washington in the back over the war in Iraq.\" Can somebody offer Mr Gardiner an aspirin?Nile, you shouldn't feel so bad, Obama was just being polite. As all presidents hosting foreign heads of state know, you simply cannot escape saying things like: \"Hamid Karzai is a great friend of the United States\" as George W Bush declared many times, or \"Colonel Gaddafi is a great friend of France\" as Sarkozy said when he invited the Libyan dictator to set up his tent with his all-female entourage in the gardens of the Elys\u00e9es in November 2007.Having said that, if you look at it historically, I'm sorry to say that it is factually and emotionally right for the American president to describe France as the US's greatest ally. 3 September 1783, anyone? Lord Cornwallis? General Rochambeau? French may have narrowly missed out on being chosen as the language of the United States, but without France, there'd be no American independence.As \"for knifing Washington in the back over the war in Iraq\", France was only doing the courageous act of warning a dear old friend that they were terribly wrong. Other allies thought no better but to acquiesce.In general, France and the French have a more straightforward relationship to America than their neighbours across the Channel. The idea is that love doesn't have to be servile. A fair amount of criticism is even expected and welcome, it is the sign of an equal and healthy relationship. If the leftist intelligentsia felt it needed to deride America just after the second world war, a majority of the French people embraced American culture.Many American artists and film directors, from Nicholas Ray to the Coen brothers, owe a large part of their world reputation to French film critics. To be a good friend, one has to be independent. That was always the point of view of French presidents from de Gaulle to Chirac. Nicolas Sarkozy is a unique figure in French politics, one who resorts to obsequiousness rather than healthy esprit critique. The truth is that Nicolas Sarkozy wishes he was American. But that's another story...", "tags": ["US news", "France", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France, America's special friend | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Champagne might be prohibitively expensive to drink, but it's a great place to visit, with all the major producers used to hosting tours round their cellars. In Epernay, stroll along the recently revamped Avenue de Champagne (termed \"the world's most drinkable address\" by Winston Churchill) and gawp at the 19th-century mansions belonging to the likes of Mo\u00ebt & Chandon (+33 3 2651 2020, moet.com), Mercier, Pol Roger, De Castellane, Perrier-Jou\u00ebt and Boizel. For \u20ac15 you get a tour of Mo\u00ebt's vast, 27km-long cellars and a glass of Mo\u00ebt Brut Imperial.The Rh\u00f4ne Valley is rich in wine, being home to the likes of C\u00f4te-R\u00f4tie and Hermitage in the north and Gigondas and Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape in the south. Do some research on websites such as yapp.co.uk and provencefoodandwine.com beforehand. In the southern Rh\u00f4ne, visit Domaine de Beaurenard in Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape (+33 4 9083 7179, beaurenard.fr) for a fascinating (and free) no-appointment-necessary tasting in their ancient cellars; and in the northern Rh\u00f4ne visit Maison Chapoutier (+33 4 7508 9261, chapoutier.com) in Tain l'Hermitage for the same. And, if you can wait until January next year, head to Ampuis for the four-day-long Foire d'Ampuis (+33 4 7456 1820), where for \u20ac8 you get a free glass and a chance to meet 60 Rh\u00f4ne producers.Travellers to the city of Bordeaux can find the price of even the most basic glass of wine alarming, so beware. The best place in town to get a decent, well-priced drink is Le Bar \u00e0 Vin (3 cours du 30 Juillet, +33 5 5600 4347, baravin.bordeaux.com). A light, spacious wine bar attached to l'Ecole du Vin (+33 5 5600 2285, vins-bordeaux.fr), it could hardly be more central, being a few hundred yards from the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre. It is also full of information about tours through the region as well as wine courses in l'Ecole itself. Heavily subsidised by the CIVB (the Bordeaux producers' association), it has a wide-ranging selection of local wines by the glass at absurdly accessible prices.There is no shortage of places to stay in and around Bordeaux but, again, these can be pricey. Among the best value are the H\u00f4tel de S\u00e8ze and its sister, the H\u00f4tel Royal M\u00e9doc (rue de S\u00e8ze, +33 5 5681 7242, hotelsezemedoc.free.fr). They are right in the heart of the city and are both much favoured by the English wine trade. They're simple and basic but, with rooms starting from \u20ac60 for a double, they're great value. For something a bit more wacky and out-of-town, try the wonderful treehouses (+33 5 5646 2948, naturacabana.fr) in the grounds of the Ch\u00e2teau de Malleret, 15km from Bordeaux. Prices start from \u20ac145 for three in a cabin.Saumur in the heart of the Loire Valley and its vineyards is within easy distance of the Channel ports. If your budget allows, book into the handsome Hotel Anne d'Anjou (+33 2 4167 3030, hotel-anneanjou.com), where rooms start from \u20ac105 per night. If budget doesn't allow, head for the Ile d'Offard in the middle of the river and the Hostel rue de Verden or its neighbouring campsite, Camping de l'Ile d'Offard (\u20ac16 for a two-person pitch, +33 2 4140 3000, cvtloisirs.com). Enjoy the superb local sparkling wines and honeyed chenin blancs and take a tour (and sample the excellent absinthe) at the tiny Combier distillery (48 rue Beaurepaire, +33 2 41 40 23 00, combier.fr).Alsace is a perfect place for pottering about with its Route de Vin (alsace-route-des-vins.com) easily negotiated by bicycle, so long as you're prepared for the occasional steep hill (you're in the foothills of the Vosges here). The region's medieval towns and villages such as Colmar, Obernai, Ribeauvill\u00e9 and Turckheim are absurdly picturesque with cobbled streets and half-timbered houses. Nearly all producers have free tastings for the public, with no obligation to buy. Park your bike at the foot of the main street in Riquewihr and wander up to the clock tower, taking in the various wine shops en route, perhaps stopping for a plate of choucroute \u00e0 l'Alsacienne. Hugel et Fils (3 rue de la Premi\u00e8re Arm\u00e9e, +33 3 8947 9215, hugel.com) is the best place to start.Gascony is a blessed spot, whose inhabitants, despite enjoying a diet rich in foie gras and confit de canard, boast lower levels of heart disease than anyone else in France and live an average five years longer. They put this down to their wines. Stay at British-owned Domaine de Lauroux (+33 5 6208 5676, lauroux.com), where a g\u00eete for six starts at \u20ac600 per week, and explore the region. Visit Bastide d'Armagnac (labastide-darmagnac.net) with its enchanting square colonnaded central place; Notre-Dame des Cyclistes (notredamedescyclistes.net), a tiny 11th-century chapel where Tour de France competitors come to pray; the exquisite hamlet of Larressingle (and taste its equally exquisite armagnac \u2013 tinyurl.com/6z7yo22); the food market of Eauze and buy foie gras, croustade and armagnac direct from artisan producers. (tourisme-gers.com).Go hiking on Les Calanques, the limestone cliffs with jaw-dropping views that run along the Mediterranean coast between Marseille and Cassis. Scramble down to an isolated cove for a gentle swim and a languorous picnic. Be sure to pack some bottles of Provence's hidden vinous gems in your basket, such as Cassis, Bandol, Palette and Bellet. Cassis itself is a delight, a bustling fishing port with dozens of restaurants, each attempting to outdo the other with their pistou soup and bouillabaisse. Enjoy them with Cassis wine (of which there are only 14 producers), a heady blend of marsanne, clairette and ugni blanc, and not to be confused with the blackcurrant cr\u00e8me de cassis.Corsica might seem a bit off-piste but the wines are increasingly fine (and remain excellent value) and the island itself is a bewitching spot with snow-capped mountains, rugged granite hills, flower-strewn meadows and pristine sandy beaches. Head for the hills around Sart\u00e8ne and seek out the delicate local ros\u00e9s. Or stop at roadside taverns to scoff wild boar salami and figatellu (liver sausage made from the local Corsican black pig), washed down with aromatic, herb-tinged reds made from the strange-sounding nielluccio and sciaccarellu grapes. And if you make it to Cap Corse in the far north, seek out the luscious, lip-smacking dessert muscats, long thought to be the island's crowning glory. Producers to look out for include Domaine Saparale (saparale.com), Domaine Torraccia and Domaine Pieretti (vinpieretti.com).Being in northern France, Montreuil-sur-Mer isn't in wine country at all. It is, though, home to the French outpost of the Wine Society (01438 741177, winesociety.com) and, as such, well worth a visit. Close to both Calais and Boulogne, it is easily accessible from the UK and ideal for a day trip. You can save a minimum \u00a318 a case by buying from here rather than the Wine Society's shop in Stevenage, and with over 200 wines to choose from there's no shortage of choice. A return on Eurotunnel (08443 353535, eurotunnel.com), plus petrol, plus lunch for two, comes to around \u00a390; the saving on buying five cases of wine is \u00a390. Enjoy a day for free in France!", "tags": ["France holidays", "Wine", "Food and drink", "Bordeaux holidays", "Corsica holidays", "Travel", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Budget wine trips in France"},{"date": "2011-01-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"We don't have a stronger friend and stronger ally than Nicolas Sarkozy, and the French people\" Barack Obama said today. Uh oh. No sooner had he done so than Washington-based British analyst Nile Gardiner rushed to his keyboard to blog for the Daily Telegraph: \"Quite what the French have done to merit this kind of high praise from the US president is difficult to fathom, and if the White House means what it says this represents an extraordinary sea change in US foreign policy.\" Touchy, aren't we?He goes on, outraged: \"To suggest that Paris and not London is Washington's strongest partner is simply ludicrous.\" And finishes, seemingly frothing at the mouth: \"No US president in modern times has described France as America's closest ally, and such a remark is not only factually wrong but also insulting to Britain, not least coming just a few years after the French famously knifed Washington in the back over the war in Iraq.\" Can somebody offer Mr Gardiner an aspirin?Nile, you shouldn't feel so bad, Obama was just being polite. As all presidents hosting foreign heads of state know, you simply cannot escape saying things like: \"Hamid Karzai is a great friend of the United States\" as George W Bush declared many times, or \"Colonel Gaddafi is a great friend of France\" as Sarkozy said when he invited the Libyan dictator to set up his tent with his all-female entourage in the gardens of the Elys\u00e9es in November 2007.Having said that, if you look at it historically, I'm sorry to say that it is factually and emotionally right for the American president to describe France as the US's greatest ally. 3 September 1783, anyone? Lord Cornwallis? General Rochambeau? French may have narrowly missed out on being chosen as the language of the United States, but without France, there'd be no American independence.As \"for knifing Washington in the back over the war in Iraq\", France was only doing the courageous act of warning a dear old friend that they were terribly wrong. Other allies thought no better but to acquiesce.In general, France and the French have a more straightforward relationship to America than their neighbours across the Channel. The idea is that love doesn't have to be servile. A fair amount of criticism is even expected and welcome, it is the sign of an equal and healthy relationship. If the leftist intelligentsia felt it needed to deride America just after the second world war, a majority of the French people embraced American culture.Many American artists and film directors, from Nicholas Ray to the Coen brothers, owe a large part of their world reputation to French film critics. To be a good friend, one has to be independent. That was always the point of view of French presidents from de Gaulle to Chirac. Nicolas Sarkozy is a unique figure in French politics, one who resorts to obsequiousness rather than healthy esprit critique. The truth is that Nicolas Sarkozy wishes he was American. But that's another story...", "tags": ["US news", "France", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France, America's special friend | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is called the Emerald coast and bears its name with panache. From Cancale, world capital for oysters, to St Briac, where Renoir loved daydreaming, this stretch of granite rocks and gold sand shelters resorts with everything discerning visitors on a budget could dream of. Among them is Dinard, between St Malo and St Lunaire. There, pitch your tent at the Camping du Port Blanc (rue du Sergent Boulanger, +33 2 9946 1074, camping-port-blanc.com) on the beach, from \u20ac13pp a night, or rent a studio at the charming La Pens\u00e9e in St Lunaire (la-pensee.pagesperso-orange.fr) from \u20ac195 for a week.Among the many things to do in and around Dinard: swim, sail, walk, eat and hunt for antiques. In Dinard and St Lunaire, Point Passion Plage (digue de L'Ecluse, Dinard, +33 2 9988 1520, pointplage.fr) provides kayak, catamaran and windsurf lessons and rentals. You can also purchase a \u20ac92 pass that will give you access to all their activities.Your stay on the Emerald coast wouldn't be complete without a taste of the region's best galettes, such as those of Cr\u00eaperie du Roy (9 boulevard F\u00e9art, Dinard, +33 2 9946 1057). Go for the galette soubise (onions cooked in muscadet) and cr\u00eape pomme maison flamb\u00e9e au calvados \u2013 your palate (and wallet) will be forever grateful.If you want to treat yourself, then veer towards the promenade au Clair de Lune. At the end stands La Gonelle (+33 2 9916 4047, lagonelle.com), a seafood and fish restaurant open from 15 April to 30 September. You can choose your fish from the aquarium; the chef will present it to you on a platter as it breathes its last.There's no need for a car in Dinard. Public transport, such as the bus linking St Briac to St Malo (illenoo-services.fr), or the vedette (boat) taking you to St Malo every half-hour (vedettes-saint-malo.com), are reliable and cheap. You can also rent a bike for the day near Dinard's market (8 rue St Enogat, +33 2 9946 2725, breizhcycles.com) and cycle to the medieval city of Dinan (dinan-tourisme.com). You'll pedal through sunflower fields and old villages and hug the River Rance for a few miles. Dinard will leave you with wonderful and enduring souvenirs.French-born Agn\u00e8s Poirier is a political commentator and film critic based in ParisIn order to do the Marcel Proust tour of Normandy properly, you should ideally be driven by a bisexual chauffeur you're lusting after. If you can't manage that, then hire a convertible two-seater and get your significant other to wear goggles, kinky rubber coat and close-fitting aviator's hat while you shout relevant passages from A la Recherche du Temps Perdu from the passenger seat.Drive first to the Grand H\u00f4tel Cabourg (les jardins du Casino, +33 2 3191 0179, accorhotels.com) on the lovely C\u00f4te Fleurie (Flower Coast). Proust checked into his fourth floor suite here feverish and exhausted in the summer 1907. He wrote: \"\u2026 menaced by the enemies thronging around me, penetrated to the very bones by fever, I was alone and wanted to die\". When I stayed in the Marcel Proust suite with my beloved, by contrast, I couldn't have been happier. I flung open the French windows on to the Promenade de Marcel Proust and rang for the best room service I've ever had \u2013 champagne with confite de daurade aux hu\u00eetres.You could splash out and do the same \u2013 a double room costs from \u20ac165. Or stay at nearby La Raspeli\u00e8re (from \u20ac80 for a double, chambres-hotes-cabourg.fr), and then dine at Le Balbec restaurant below the Grand H\u00f4tel, with its marvellous seasonal seafood menu (three courses from \u20ac56). First, though, have a Proust cocktail (gin, cointreau, orange and cura\u00e7ao bleu) in the Belle Epoque bar while listening to Scott Joplin on the computerised pianola.Next morning follow Proust and the love of his life, chauffeur Albert Agostinelli, on their tour of Norman architecture. They went to Bayeux, not to see the tapestry, but to pay homage to oriental figures in the romanesque part of Bayeux cathedral. They didn't, as far as I can find out, have lunch in Bayeux's restaurants (try La Rapi\u00e8re, off rue St Jean, +33 2 3121 0545, larapiere.net) offering Norman-style cooking. But you should.Rejoin Proust's tour by visiting the abbeys of Jumi\u00e8ges, Saint-Wandrille and Saint-Georges de Bouscheville, perhaps taking tea at the Ch\u00e2teau de Balleroy (chateau-balleroy.com), where Proust savoured Boucher's tapestries.Check into another grand hotel \u2013 the Grand H\u00f4tel de l'Esp\u00e9rance at Lisieux (from \u20ac69 a night, lisieux-hotel.com) and after dinner, get your chauffeur to drive you to the cathedral of St Pierre. It was here that in 1907 Proust studied the facade's foliated tracery, illuminated by Agostinelli's headlamps.The following morning drive towards Illiers, where adolescent Marcel stayed. On the way, you'd be idiotic not to visit Chartres cathedral (chartres-tourisme.com). Illiers itself is a scruffy backwater village transformed into Combray in the novel. Today the house where Proust's Tante L\u00e9onie lived is a little museum (marcelproust.pagesperso-orange.fr). From Illiers, you could drive to Monet's garden at Giverny (\u20ac8, giverny.org/gardens). Proust repeatedly planned to go, but never made it. A shame: given his love of botany and his hypersensitive openness to beauty, he would have adored it.Stuart Jeffries is a feature writer and ex-Paris correspondent for the GuardianThe Loire Valley has to be France's most fran\u00e7ais region. Its people speak the purest French, and it's also at the heart of the country's history \u2013 a fascinating base for a week's touring.The most famous chateau, and justifiably so, is Chenonceau (chenonceau.com) in Indre-et-Loire \u2013 it straddles a lake on a series of arches, and was a gift from King Henri II to his lover Diane de Poitiers, a woman so sexy that the Queen, Catherine de Medici, used to spy on the couple's lovemaking to learn a few tricks. Chenonceau is to chateaux what Monica Bellucci is to cinema. Le Relais de Chenonceaux (+33 2 4723 9811, chenonceaux.com), close to the chateau, has double rooms from \u20ac52, half-board from \u20ac92.To the south-west, across vineyard-covered countryside stands the hilltop Ch\u00e2teau de Chinon (visit-loire.com/cities-loire/chinon). You can stand in the very room where Joan of Arc performed a \"miracle\" in 1429. To test her divine inspiration, Prince Charles (no, not that one) hid in disguise among his courtiers. Unerringly, Joan picked him out. Miraculous, until you realise that the knock-kneed, squinty-eyed prince was one of the most recognisable men in France.A great-value day out is a rent-a-bike ride along the Loire riverbanks from the medieval Ch\u00e2teau de Blois (chateaudeblois.fr): Tra\u00eeneurs de Loire (traineursdeloire.com) rent out bikes for \u20ac13 a day from several locations along the river.In the evenings, the region is the perfect place for a gourmet feast. In the old centre of Saumur, Auberge Saint-Pierre (6 place Saint-Pierre, auberge-saintpierre.com) has traditional regional cuisine at reasonable prices, such as boeuf bourguignon for \u20ac11.50.And if I taste a wine I like at dinner, I ask the restaurateur for the grower's address, then drop by next day to stock up at wholesale prices. Chinon blanc sec, for example, is a golden drink that inspires descriptions like \"harmonious\", \"fruity\" and \"generous with its charms\" \u2013 very much like this part of France itself.Stephen Clarke, author of A Year in the Merde (Black Swan, \u00a37.99). His new book, Paris Revealed, is out on 31 MarchThe first time I travelled down to France's south-west corner, it was to investigate the region's separatist movement, Iparetarrak (IK), a more amateurish and considerably less violent version of Eta. For many years, IK was secretly applauded by those Parisians lucky enough to own houses along that pristine stretch of Atlantic coastline. Twenty years on, the revolutionaries that fed IK have retired and development along the coastline has mushroomed. New-builds have sprung up on the hills, and traffic jams along the coast's route nationale are the norm.There is one place, however, that has not changed. Gu\u00e9thary is a small fishing village nestled between the chichi seaside towns of Biarritz and Saint Jean-de-Luz. It is also one of Europe's more confidential surf spots and so it has been contaminated or preserved, depending on your point of view, by a certain alternative vibe that seems to co-exist quite nicely with the well-heeled Parisian families who have been holidaying there since the 60s.The village is sliced in two by the route nationale, so you'll want to make sure you're staying on the right side of it. Head straight to the Hotel Madrid (+33 5 5926 5212, lemadrid.com) in the heart of the village. Here the sound of the ocean rubs out the distant rumble of traffic. Unaltered since the turn of the last century when Paul Klee stayed here and sat with Kandinsky on its windswept terrace overlooking the sea, Le Madrid is still a simple, family hotel with five pretty rooms, from \u20ac59 a night, and a good restaurant.Gu\u00e9thary is one of those magical places to which people return faithfully all their lives. My own children would play for hours on its vast fronton (court), theoretically for pelota but more often for impromptu football, or rollerskating, or teenage flirting or, at night, dances and fireworks or Basque games (shows of strength).In the morning, you might walk down to one of Gu\u00e9thary's three beaches: la Plage du Centre to mess around in the rockpools and eat chipirones (tiny squid) or gambas a la plancha (grilled shrimp) at Kostaldea, a little place right on the beach. Or there are the wilder beaches of Les Alcyons or Cenitz, where you can lie on the white sand or body-surf in the big waves. Later, while the children play outside you can be in the Bar Basque opposite the Madrid, drinking sangria and watching the sunset.Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber, \u00a37.99)With a unique Franco-German character, Alsace offers stunning mountainous scenery, gorgeous villages, fascinating museums and wonderful wines. My ideal itinerary around the region kicks off high up in the Vosges mountains. The wonderful little eco-hotel Villa Rosa (rue Thierry Schoerem, +33 3 8949 8119, villarosa.fr) in Trois-Epis, near the town of Colmar, is the perfect place to relax. It has eight comfortable rooms costing from \u20ac63 per night, and its owner, Anne-Rose, creates wonderful meals with the vegetables, herbs and flowers from her garden (\u20ac26 for three courses).After winding down for a day or two next to the solar-heated pool or taking walks from the hotel, I'll jump in the hire car for some thrilling drives through the mountains. The hairpin bends aren't for the faint-hearted, and the roads' steep hills are a popular challenge for cyclists. My destination is the nearby village of Turckheim. Like my other favourite villages, Eguisheim and Riquewihr, Turckheim has wonderful narrow streets rambling through colourful timber-framed houses with window boxes in full bloom. My stroll will also have me sniffing out one of Turckheim's wineries where I'll sample the local riesling and gew\u00fcrztraminer.Not far from Turckheim is the imposing Ch\u00e2teau du Haut-Koenigsbourg (haut-koenigsbourg.fr). Sitting high over the vineyard-lined valley, the castle dates from the 12th century and offers incredible views across to the Black Forest in Germany. After a poke around its battlements, I'll carry on to Colmar, a gorgeous little town in the heart of Alsace. Lunch is at the characterful restaurant Maison Rouge (9, rue des Ecoles, Colmar, +33 3 8923 5322), where I'll tuck into a salad of the local Munster cheese, or a delicious tarte flamb\u00e9e, before walking it off along the canal in the area known as Petite Venise (Little Venice).Carolyn Boyd is editor of France magazine (francemag.com) Beneath Tiepolo skies, it's a gentle amble through shimmering cognac vines down to the Charente river for a dip in the calm waters. Such is the idyllic nature of summer days in the Charente, second-sunniest corner of France, after the Riviera.The riverside town of Cognac has for four centuries been the home of cognac-making, now a booming export trade, not least among the American rapper fraternity where it's known as \"yak\". In the courtyard restaurant of the quirkily decorated but comfortable Hotel Heritage (25, rue d'Angoul\u00eame, +33 5 4582 0126, hheritage.com, doubles \u20ac70) or in the smartly cosy Le Bistro de Claude (35 rue Grande, +33 5 4582 6032, bistro-de-claude.com) the spirit Victor Hugo dubbed \"the liquor of the gods\" is served in tulip glasses to stop aromas escaping.Most cognac houses \u2013 such as Hennessy, Martell and R\u00e9my Martin \u2013 offer visits and tastings. But Baron Otard (baronotard.com) has the advantage of being in the Ch\u00e2teau de Cognac so the tour takes in Renaissance halls designed by Leonardo da Vinci and plunges into a fungi-draped dungeon, the \"paradise cellar\", where cognacs from centuries past are stored.For sustenance of the soul, the nearby thousand-year-old Abbey of Bassac (+33 5 4581 9422, abbayebassac.com) has a tangible spirituality and visitors are welcome to stroll in the near-silent gardens. Within the same tiny village there's a choice of two good restaurants, L'Essille (rue de Conde, +33 5 4581 9413, hotel-restaurant-essille.com) and L'Auberge de Cond\u00e9 (, doubles \u20ac35, rue Rixendis Loriches, +33 5 4583 0967, auberge-de-conde.net).But for an insight into contemporary French culture, head to Angoul\u00eame, historic home of papermaking and capital of the comic book. On a ramble through the hilly Charente capital you'll spot some of the 20 or so giant-scale cartoon scenes painted on to the sides of buildings by top comic strip artists.Lennox Morrison is an author and journalist based in ParisThe prehistoric Lascaux caves, Bergerac, and Sarlat are the famous sites of the Dordogne region of Aquitaine, but in the bit I know well I've found many surprising treasures. Make a base in the pretty village of Sainte Alv\u00e8re, such as the sweet Roquebrune en P\u00e9rigord (+33 5 5361 2418, roquebrune-perigord.com, \u20ac75 for two), where you will be tempted to spend a week scoffing saucisson, truffles and foie gras from the weekly market (the rotisserie chicken van is amazing). Go dancing one night with local farmers, families and dreadlocked hippies at La Guinguette de Neufonds, a fun restaurant beside a lake (where you can swim) near Vergt, that has a cheap buffet with live music ranging from Gypsy jazz to local ska-punk.My top day trips are as follows. A wonderful chateau with an interesting backstory is Ch\u00e2teau des Milandes (milandes.com) in Castelnaud-la-Chapelle, once the home of Josephine Baker, the African American who became an exotic dancer in Paris in the 20s. She also spied for the French resistance, was a major player in the American civil rights movement and the Angelina Jolie of her day, adopting children from around the world. Look out for the gorgeous art deco bathrooms modelled on perfume bottles and her famous banana skirt. Another day drive to Limeuil, where the Dordogne and V\u00e9z\u00e8re rivers meet and you can go for a high-speed float in the strong currents, or kayak. Further away, on the coast, the incredible Dune du Pyla is Europe's biggest sand dune, and if you're in the area in May, the Bergerac jazz festival (jazzpourpre.com) is excellent.Gemma Bowes, acting travel editor of the GuardianProvence and the C\u00f4te d'Azur don't take kindly to budgets, but experiencing the region on the cheap is possible. I'd head to N\u00eemes (just over the border in Languedoc-Roussillon), preferably between 8-13 June for the F\u00e9ria (viva-la-feria.com), and either buy a ticket for the bullfighting at the Roman arena of Les Ar\u00e8nes (4 rue de la Violette, arenesdenimes.com) or settle for some gardiane, a bull casserole. I'd sleep at the excellent N\u00eemes youth hostel (\u20ac35 for a double, +33 4 6668 0320, hinimes.com).On to Arles and the fascinating Van Gogh walking tour (+33 4 9018 4120, arlestourisme.com) then, bellyful of bull finally digested \u2013 it won't go down without a fight \u2013 I'll have pizza at Chez N\u00e9n\u00e9 et B\u00e9b\u00e9 (12 impasses du Forum, +33 4 9093 4949, tinyurl.com/5sg57fg).I'd like to hit Avignon for its festival from 6-26 July (+33 4 9027 6650, festival- avignon.com) and to eat at Au Tout Petit (\u20ac25 for three courses, 4 rue d'Amphoux, +33 4 9082 3886, autoutpetit.fr), which serves good value, inventive dishes.Last stop, Aix-en-Provence, and I'd stretch the budget to stay at Le Manoir (\u20ac67 for a double room, 8 rue d'Entrecasteaux, +33 4 4226 2720, hotelmanoir.com), set in an historic house with a beautiful courtyard and 14th-century cloister.Neil McQuillian is a travel writer for Rough GuidesIt is easy to find the Languedoc. Just follow the Rh\u00f4ne river, and when you hit the southern French coast, instead of turning left to head to St Tropez or Provence, head right towards Spain. The region stretches over 16,000 square miles.Your first major stop is B\u00e9ziers, a city that seems almost more Spanish than French. It was a Cathar stronghold in medieval times and the site of a horrendous massacre in 1209 when crusaders besieged the city. The worst bloodshed took place in the cathedral, which you should visit, if only for the views across the city and the Orb. Then you have two choices for lunch; either the best wine-bar in the region, Le Chameau Ivre (15 place Jean Jaur\u00e8s, +33 4 6780 2020, tinyurl.com/5s93d5t), or a charming restaurant called Le Petit Monmartre (+33 4 6728 5654, lepetitmontmartre.net) in the elegant Place de la Madeleine. Stay at the H\u00f4tel des Po\u00e8tes, overlooking the park (80 all\u00e9es Paul Riquet, +33 4 67 76 38 66, hoteldespoetes.net).Next stop is the Etang de Bages, just outside Narbonne. You can walk along the wooden walkways over the water, or simply along the coastal paths, admiring the nature and the pink flamingoes. If you're hungry there is no nicer place to eat than the restaurant Le Portanel (pas de Portanel, +33 4 6842 8166, leportanel.fr).From there it is a short drive to Spain, but please don't miss Collioure (collioure.com), just before the border, a favourite haunt of the fauvist artists and famous for its anchovies.Helena Frith Powell is the author of Love in a Warm Climate (Gibson Square, \u00a38.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Dordogne holidays", "Provence holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Pyrenees holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Classic France: the insiders' guide"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Champagne might be prohibitively expensive to drink, but it's a great place to visit, with all the major producers used to hosting tours round their cellars. In Epernay, stroll along the recently revamped Avenue de Champagne (termed \"the world's most drinkable address\" by Winston Churchill) and gawp at the 19th-century mansions belonging to the likes of Mo\u00ebt & Chandon (+33 3 2651 2020, moet.com), Mercier, Pol Roger, De Castellane, Perrier-Jou\u00ebt and Boizel. For \u20ac15 you get a tour of Mo\u00ebt's vast, 27km-long cellars and a glass of Mo\u00ebt Brut Imperial.The Rh\u00f4ne Valley is rich in wine, being home to the likes of C\u00f4te-R\u00f4tie and Hermitage in the north and Gigondas and Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape in the south. Do some research on websites such as yapp.co.uk and provencefoodandwine.com beforehand. In the southern Rh\u00f4ne, visit Domaine de Beaurenard in Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape (+33 4 9083 7179, beaurenard.fr) for a fascinating (and free) no-appointment-necessary tasting in their ancient cellars; and in the northern Rh\u00f4ne visit Maison Chapoutier (+33 4 7508 9261, chapoutier.com) in Tain l'Hermitage for the same. And, if you can wait until January next year, head to Ampuis for the four-day-long Foire d'Ampuis (+33 4 7456 1820), where for \u20ac8 you get a free glass and a chance to meet 60 Rh\u00f4ne producers.Travellers to the city of Bordeaux can find the price of even the most basic glass of wine alarming, so beware. The best place in town to get a decent, well-priced drink is Le Bar \u00e0 Vin (3 cours du 30 Juillet, +33 5 5600 4347, baravin.bordeaux.com). A light, spacious wine bar attached to l'Ecole du Vin (+33 5 5600 2285, vins-bordeaux.fr), it could hardly be more central, being a few hundred yards from the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre. It is also full of information about tours through the region as well as wine courses in l'Ecole itself. Heavily subsidised by the CIVB (the Bordeaux producers' association), it has a wide-ranging selection of local wines by the glass at absurdly accessible prices.There is no shortage of places to stay in and around Bordeaux but, again, these can be pricey. Among the best value are the H\u00f4tel de S\u00e8ze and its sister, the H\u00f4tel Royal M\u00e9doc (rue de S\u00e8ze, +33 5 5681 7242, hotelsezemedoc.free.fr). They are right in the heart of the city and are both much favoured by the English wine trade. They're simple and basic but, with rooms starting from \u20ac60 for a double, they're great value. For something a bit more wacky and out-of-town, try the wonderful treehouses (+33 5 5646 2948, naturacabana.fr) in the grounds of the Ch\u00e2teau de Malleret, 15km from Bordeaux. Prices start from \u20ac145 for three in a cabin.Saumur in the heart of the Loire Valley and its vineyards is within easy distance of the Channel ports. If your budget allows, book into the handsome Hotel Anne d'Anjou (+33 2 4167 3030, hotel-anneanjou.com), where rooms start from \u20ac105 per night. If budget doesn't allow, head for the Ile d'Offard in the middle of the river and the Hostel rue de Verden or its neighbouring campsite, Camping de l'Ile d'Offard (\u20ac16 for a two-person pitch, +33 2 4140 3000, cvtloisirs.com). Enjoy the superb local sparkling wines and honeyed chenin blancs and take a tour (and sample the excellent absinthe) at the tiny Combier distillery (48 rue Beaurepaire, +33 2 41 40 23 00, combier.fr).Alsace is a perfect place for pottering about with its Route de Vin (alsace-route-des-vins.com) easily negotiated by bicycle, so long as you're prepared for the occasional steep hill (you're in the foothills of the Vosges here). The region's medieval towns and villages such as Colmar, Obernai, Ribeauvill\u00e9 and Turckheim are absurdly picturesque with cobbled streets and half-timbered houses. Nearly all producers have free tastings for the public, with no obligation to buy. Park your bike at the foot of the main street in Riquewihr and wander up to the clock tower, taking in the various wine shops en route, perhaps stopping for a plate of choucroute \u00e0 l'Alsacienne. Hugel et Fils (3 rue de la Premi\u00e8re Arm\u00e9e, +33 3 8947 9215, hugel.com) is the best place to start.Gascony is a blessed spot, whose inhabitants, despite enjoying a diet rich in foie gras and confit de canard, boast lower levels of heart disease than anyone else in France and live an average five years longer. They put this down to their wines. Stay at British-owned Domaine de Lauroux (+33 5 6208 5676, lauroux.com), where a g\u00eete for six starts at \u20ac600 per week, and explore the region. Visit Bastide d'Armagnac (labastide-darmagnac.net) with its enchanting square colonnaded central place; Notre-Dame des Cyclistes (notredamedescyclistes.net), a tiny 11th-century chapel where Tour de France competitors come to pray; the exquisite hamlet of Larressingle (and taste its equally exquisite armagnac \u2013 tinyurl.com/6z7yo22); the food market of Eauze and buy foie gras, croustade and armagnac direct from artisan producers. (tourisme-gers.com).Go hiking on Les Calanques, the limestone cliffs with jaw-dropping views that run along the Mediterranean coast between Marseille and Cassis. Scramble down to an isolated cove for a gentle swim and a languorous picnic. Be sure to pack some bottles of Provence's hidden vinous gems in your basket, such as Cassis, Bandol, Palette and Bellet. Cassis itself is a delight, a bustling fishing port with dozens of restaurants, each attempting to outdo the other with their pistou soup and bouillabaisse. Enjoy them with Cassis wine (of which there are only 14 producers), a heady blend of marsanne, clairette and ugni blanc, and not to be confused with the blackcurrant cr\u00e8me de cassis.Corsica might seem a bit off-piste but the wines are increasingly fine (and remain excellent value) and the island itself is a bewitching spot with snow-capped mountains, rugged granite hills, flower-strewn meadows and pristine sandy beaches. Head for the hills around Sart\u00e8ne and seek out the delicate local ros\u00e9s. Or stop at roadside taverns to scoff wild boar salami and figatellu (liver sausage made from the local Corsican black pig), washed down with aromatic, herb-tinged reds made from the strange-sounding nielluccio and sciaccarellu grapes. And if you make it to Cap Corse in the far north, seek out the luscious, lip-smacking dessert muscats, long thought to be the island's crowning glory. Producers to look out for include Domaine Saparale (saparale.com), Domaine Torraccia and Domaine Pieretti (vinpieretti.com).Being in northern France, Montreuil-sur-Mer isn't in wine country at all. It is, though, home to the French outpost of the Wine Society (01438 741177, winesociety.com) and, as such, well worth a visit. Close to both Calais and Boulogne, it is easily accessible from the UK and ideal for a day trip. You can save a minimum \u00a318 a case by buying from here rather than the Wine Society's shop in Stevenage, and with over 200 wines to choose from there's no shortage of choice. A return on Eurotunnel (08443 353535, eurotunnel.com), plus petrol, plus lunch for two, comes to around \u00a390; the saving on buying five cases of wine is \u00a390. Enjoy a day for free in France!", "tags": ["France holidays", "Wine", "Food and drink", "Bordeaux holidays", "Corsica holidays", "Travel", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Budget wine trips in France"},{"date": "2011-01-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"We don't have a stronger friend and stronger ally than Nicolas Sarkozy, and the French people\" Barack Obama said today. Uh oh. No sooner had he done so than Washington-based British analyst Nile Gardiner rushed to his keyboard to blog for the Daily Telegraph: \"Quite what the French have done to merit this kind of high praise from the US president is difficult to fathom, and if the White House means what it says this represents an extraordinary sea change in US foreign policy.\" Touchy, aren't we?He goes on, outraged: \"To suggest that Paris and not London is Washington's strongest partner is simply ludicrous.\" And finishes, seemingly frothing at the mouth: \"No US president in modern times has described France as America's closest ally, and such a remark is not only factually wrong but also insulting to Britain, not least coming just a few years after the French famously knifed Washington in the back over the war in Iraq.\" Can somebody offer Mr Gardiner an aspirin?Nile, you shouldn't feel so bad, Obama was just being polite. As all presidents hosting foreign heads of state know, you simply cannot escape saying things like: \"Hamid Karzai is a great friend of the United States\" as George W Bush declared many times, or \"Colonel Gaddafi is a great friend of France\" as Sarkozy said when he invited the Libyan dictator to set up his tent with his all-female entourage in the gardens of the Elys\u00e9es in November 2007.Having said that, if you look at it historically, I'm sorry to say that it is factually and emotionally right for the American president to describe France as the US's greatest ally. 3 September 1783, anyone? Lord Cornwallis? General Rochambeau? French may have narrowly missed out on being chosen as the language of the United States, but without France, there'd be no American independence.As \"for knifing Washington in the back over the war in Iraq\", France was only doing the courageous act of warning a dear old friend that they were terribly wrong. Other allies thought no better but to acquiesce.In general, France and the French have a more straightforward relationship to America than their neighbours across the Channel. The idea is that love doesn't have to be servile. A fair amount of criticism is even expected and welcome, it is the sign of an equal and healthy relationship. If the leftist intelligentsia felt it needed to deride America just after the second world war, a majority of the French people embraced American culture.Many American artists and film directors, from Nicholas Ray to the Coen brothers, owe a large part of their world reputation to French film critics. To be a good friend, one has to be independent. That was always the point of view of French presidents from de Gaulle to Chirac. Nicolas Sarkozy is a unique figure in French politics, one who resorts to obsequiousness rather than healthy esprit critique. The truth is that Nicolas Sarkozy wishes he was American. But that's another story...", "tags": ["US news", "France", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France, America's special friend | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is called the Emerald coast and bears its name with panache. From Cancale, world capital for oysters, to St Briac, where Renoir loved daydreaming, this stretch of granite rocks and gold sand shelters resorts with everything discerning visitors on a budget could dream of. Among them is Dinard, between St Malo and St Lunaire. There, pitch your tent at the Camping du Port Blanc (rue du Sergent Boulanger, +33 2 9946 1074, camping-port-blanc.com) on the beach, from \u20ac13pp a night, or rent a studio at the charming La Pens\u00e9e in St Lunaire (la-pensee.pagesperso-orange.fr) from \u20ac195 for a week.Among the many things to do in and around Dinard: swim, sail, walk, eat and hunt for antiques. In Dinard and St Lunaire, Point Passion Plage (digue de L'Ecluse, Dinard, +33 2 9988 1520, pointplage.fr) provides kayak, catamaran and windsurf lessons and rentals. You can also purchase a \u20ac92 pass that will give you access to all their activities.Your stay on the Emerald coast wouldn't be complete without a taste of the region's best galettes, such as those of Cr\u00eaperie du Roy (9 boulevard F\u00e9art, Dinard, +33 2 9946 1057). Go for the galette soubise (onions cooked in muscadet) and cr\u00eape pomme maison flamb\u00e9e au calvados \u2013 your palate (and wallet) will be forever grateful.If you want to treat yourself, then veer towards the promenade au Clair de Lune. At the end stands La Gonelle (+33 2 9916 4047, lagonelle.com), a seafood and fish restaurant open from 15 April to 30 September. You can choose your fish from the aquarium; the chef will present it to you on a platter as it breathes its last.There's no need for a car in Dinard. Public transport, such as the bus linking St Briac to St Malo (illenoo-services.fr), or the vedette (boat) taking you to St Malo every half-hour (vedettes-saint-malo.com), are reliable and cheap. You can also rent a bike for the day near Dinard's market (8 rue St Enogat, +33 2 9946 2725, breizhcycles.com) and cycle to the medieval city of Dinan (dinan-tourisme.com). You'll pedal through sunflower fields and old villages and hug the River Rance for a few miles. Dinard will leave you with wonderful and enduring souvenirs.French-born Agn\u00e8s Poirier is a political commentator and film critic based in ParisIn order to do the Marcel Proust tour of Normandy properly, you should ideally be driven by a bisexual chauffeur you're lusting after. If you can't manage that, then hire a convertible two-seater and get your significant other to wear goggles, kinky rubber coat and close-fitting aviator's hat while you shout relevant passages from A la Recherche du Temps Perdu from the passenger seat.Drive first to the Grand H\u00f4tel Cabourg (les jardins du Casino, +33 2 3191 0179, accorhotels.com) on the lovely C\u00f4te Fleurie (Flower Coast). Proust checked into his fourth floor suite here feverish and exhausted in the summer 1907. He wrote: \"\u2026 menaced by the enemies thronging around me, penetrated to the very bones by fever, I was alone and wanted to die\". When I stayed in the Marcel Proust suite with my beloved, by contrast, I couldn't have been happier. I flung open the French windows on to the Promenade de Marcel Proust and rang for the best room service I've ever had \u2013 champagne with confite de daurade aux hu\u00eetres.You could splash out and do the same \u2013 a double room costs from \u20ac165. Or stay at nearby La Raspeli\u00e8re (from \u20ac80 for a double, chambres-hotes-cabourg.fr), and then dine at Le Balbec restaurant below the Grand H\u00f4tel, with its marvellous seasonal seafood menu (three courses from \u20ac56). First, though, have a Proust cocktail (gin, cointreau, orange and cura\u00e7ao bleu) in the Belle Epoque bar while listening to Scott Joplin on the computerised pianola.Next morning follow Proust and the love of his life, chauffeur Albert Agostinelli, on their tour of Norman architecture. They went to Bayeux, not to see the tapestry, but to pay homage to oriental figures in the romanesque part of Bayeux cathedral. They didn't, as far as I can find out, have lunch in Bayeux's restaurants (try La Rapi\u00e8re, off rue St Jean, +33 2 3121 0545, larapiere.net) offering Norman-style cooking. But you should.Rejoin Proust's tour by visiting the abbeys of Jumi\u00e8ges, Saint-Wandrille and Saint-Georges de Bouscheville, perhaps taking tea at the Ch\u00e2teau de Balleroy (chateau-balleroy.com), where Proust savoured Boucher's tapestries.Check into another grand hotel \u2013 the Grand H\u00f4tel de l'Esp\u00e9rance at Lisieux (from \u20ac69 a night, lisieux-hotel.com) and after dinner, get your chauffeur to drive you to the cathedral of St Pierre. It was here that in 1907 Proust studied the facade's foliated tracery, illuminated by Agostinelli's headlamps.The following morning drive towards Illiers, where adolescent Marcel stayed. On the way, you'd be idiotic not to visit Chartres cathedral (chartres-tourisme.com). Illiers itself is a scruffy backwater village transformed into Combray in the novel. Today the house where Proust's Tante L\u00e9onie lived is a little museum (marcelproust.pagesperso-orange.fr). From Illiers, you could drive to Monet's garden at Giverny (\u20ac8, giverny.org/gardens). Proust repeatedly planned to go, but never made it. A shame: given his love of botany and his hypersensitive openness to beauty, he would have adored it.Stuart Jeffries is a feature writer and ex-Paris correspondent for the GuardianThe Loire Valley has to be France's most fran\u00e7ais region. Its people speak the purest French, and it's also at the heart of the country's history \u2013 a fascinating base for a week's touring.The most famous chateau, and justifiably so, is Chenonceau (chenonceau.com) in Indre-et-Loire \u2013 it straddles a lake on a series of arches, and was a gift from King Henri II to his lover Diane de Poitiers, a woman so sexy that the Queen, Catherine de Medici, used to spy on the couple's lovemaking to learn a few tricks. Chenonceau is to chateaux what Monica Bellucci is to cinema. Le Relais de Chenonceaux (+33 2 4723 9811, chenonceaux.com), close to the chateau, has double rooms from \u20ac52, half-board from \u20ac92.To the south-west, across vineyard-covered countryside stands the hilltop Ch\u00e2teau de Chinon (visit-loire.com/cities-loire/chinon). You can stand in the very room where Joan of Arc performed a \"miracle\" in 1429. To test her divine inspiration, Prince Charles (no, not that one) hid in disguise among his courtiers. Unerringly, Joan picked him out. Miraculous, until you realise that the knock-kneed, squinty-eyed prince was one of the most recognisable men in France.A great-value day out is a rent-a-bike ride along the Loire riverbanks from the medieval Ch\u00e2teau de Blois (chateaudeblois.fr): Tra\u00eeneurs de Loire (traineursdeloire.com) rent out bikes for \u20ac13 a day from several locations along the river.In the evenings, the region is the perfect place for a gourmet feast. In the old centre of Saumur, Auberge Saint-Pierre (6 place Saint-Pierre, auberge-saintpierre.com) has traditional regional cuisine at reasonable prices, such as boeuf bourguignon for \u20ac11.50.And if I taste a wine I like at dinner, I ask the restaurateur for the grower's address, then drop by next day to stock up at wholesale prices. Chinon blanc sec, for example, is a golden drink that inspires descriptions like \"harmonious\", \"fruity\" and \"generous with its charms\" \u2013 very much like this part of France itself.Stephen Clarke, author of A Year in the Merde (Black Swan, \u00a37.99). His new book, Paris Revealed, is out on 31 MarchThe first time I travelled down to France's south-west corner, it was to investigate the region's separatist movement, Iparetarrak (IK), a more amateurish and considerably less violent version of Eta. For many years, IK was secretly applauded by those Parisians lucky enough to own houses along that pristine stretch of Atlantic coastline. Twenty years on, the revolutionaries that fed IK have retired and development along the coastline has mushroomed. New-builds have sprung up on the hills, and traffic jams along the coast's route nationale are the norm.There is one place, however, that has not changed. Gu\u00e9thary is a small fishing village nestled between the chichi seaside towns of Biarritz and Saint Jean-de-Luz. It is also one of Europe's more confidential surf spots and so it has been contaminated or preserved, depending on your point of view, by a certain alternative vibe that seems to co-exist quite nicely with the well-heeled Parisian families who have been holidaying there since the 60s.The village is sliced in two by the route nationale, so you'll want to make sure you're staying on the right side of it. Head straight to the Hotel Madrid (+33 5 5926 5212, lemadrid.com) in the heart of the village. Here the sound of the ocean rubs out the distant rumble of traffic. Unaltered since the turn of the last century when Paul Klee stayed here and sat with Kandinsky on its windswept terrace overlooking the sea, Le Madrid is still a simple, family hotel with five pretty rooms, from \u20ac59 a night, and a good restaurant.Gu\u00e9thary is one of those magical places to which people return faithfully all their lives. My own children would play for hours on its vast fronton (court), theoretically for pelota but more often for impromptu football, or rollerskating, or teenage flirting or, at night, dances and fireworks or Basque games (shows of strength).In the morning, you might walk down to one of Gu\u00e9thary's three beaches: la Plage du Centre to mess around in the rockpools and eat chipirones (tiny squid) or gambas a la plancha (grilled shrimp) at Kostaldea, a little place right on the beach. Or there are the wilder beaches of Les Alcyons or Cenitz, where you can lie on the white sand or body-surf in the big waves. Later, while the children play outside you can be in the Bar Basque opposite the Madrid, drinking sangria and watching the sunset.Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber, \u00a37.99)With a unique Franco-German character, Alsace offers stunning mountainous scenery, gorgeous villages, fascinating museums and wonderful wines. My ideal itinerary around the region kicks off high up in the Vosges mountains. The wonderful little eco-hotel Villa Rosa (rue Thierry Schoerem, +33 3 8949 8119, villarosa.fr) in Trois-Epis, near the town of Colmar, is the perfect place to relax. It has eight comfortable rooms costing from \u20ac63 per night, and its owner, Anne-Rose, creates wonderful meals with the vegetables, herbs and flowers from her garden (\u20ac26 for three courses).After winding down for a day or two next to the solar-heated pool or taking walks from the hotel, I'll jump in the hire car for some thrilling drives through the mountains. The hairpin bends aren't for the faint-hearted, and the roads' steep hills are a popular challenge for cyclists. My destination is the nearby village of Turckheim. Like my other favourite villages, Eguisheim and Riquewihr, Turckheim has wonderful narrow streets rambling through colourful timber-framed houses with window boxes in full bloom. My stroll will also have me sniffing out one of Turckheim's wineries where I'll sample the local riesling and gew\u00fcrztraminer.Not far from Turckheim is the imposing Ch\u00e2teau du Haut-Koenigsbourg (haut-koenigsbourg.fr). Sitting high over the vineyard-lined valley, the castle dates from the 12th century and offers incredible views across to the Black Forest in Germany. After a poke around its battlements, I'll carry on to Colmar, a gorgeous little town in the heart of Alsace. Lunch is at the characterful restaurant Maison Rouge (9, rue des Ecoles, Colmar, +33 3 8923 5322), where I'll tuck into a salad of the local Munster cheese, or a delicious tarte flamb\u00e9e, before walking it off along the canal in the area known as Petite Venise (Little Venice).Carolyn Boyd is editor of France magazine (francemag.com) Beneath Tiepolo skies, it's a gentle amble through shimmering cognac vines down to the Charente river for a dip in the calm waters. Such is the idyllic nature of summer days in the Charente, second-sunniest corner of France, after the Riviera.The riverside town of Cognac has for four centuries been the home of cognac-making, now a booming export trade, not least among the American rapper fraternity where it's known as \"yak\". In the courtyard restaurant of the quirkily decorated but comfortable Hotel Heritage (25, rue d'Angoul\u00eame, +33 5 4582 0126, hheritage.com, doubles \u20ac70) or in the smartly cosy Le Bistro de Claude (35 rue Grande, +33 5 4582 6032, bistro-de-claude.com) the spirit Victor Hugo dubbed \"the liquor of the gods\" is served in tulip glasses to stop aromas escaping.Most cognac houses \u2013 such as Hennessy, Martell and R\u00e9my Martin \u2013 offer visits and tastings. But Baron Otard (baronotard.com) has the advantage of being in the Ch\u00e2teau de Cognac so the tour takes in Renaissance halls designed by Leonardo da Vinci and plunges into a fungi-draped dungeon, the \"paradise cellar\", where cognacs from centuries past are stored.For sustenance of the soul, the nearby thousand-year-old Abbey of Bassac (+33 5 4581 9422, abbayebassac.com) has a tangible spirituality and visitors are welcome to stroll in the near-silent gardens. Within the same tiny village there's a choice of two good restaurants, L'Essille (rue de Conde, +33 5 4581 9413, hotel-restaurant-essille.com) and L'Auberge de Cond\u00e9 (, doubles \u20ac35, rue Rixendis Loriches, +33 5 4583 0967, auberge-de-conde.net).But for an insight into contemporary French culture, head to Angoul\u00eame, historic home of papermaking and capital of the comic book. On a ramble through the hilly Charente capital you'll spot some of the 20 or so giant-scale cartoon scenes painted on to the sides of buildings by top comic strip artists.Lennox Morrison is an author and journalist based in ParisThe prehistoric Lascaux caves, Bergerac, and Sarlat are the famous sites of the Dordogne region of Aquitaine, but in the bit I know well I've found many surprising treasures. Make a base in the pretty village of Sainte Alv\u00e8re, such as the sweet Roquebrune en P\u00e9rigord (+33 5 5361 2418, roquebrune-perigord.com, \u20ac75 for two), where you will be tempted to spend a week scoffing saucisson, truffles and foie gras from the weekly market (the rotisserie chicken van is amazing). Go dancing one night with local farmers, families and dreadlocked hippies at La Guinguette de Neufonds, a fun restaurant beside a lake (where you can swim) near Vergt, that has a cheap buffet with live music ranging from Gypsy jazz to local ska-punk.My top day trips are as follows. A wonderful chateau with an interesting backstory is Ch\u00e2teau des Milandes (milandes.com) in Castelnaud-la-Chapelle, once the home of Josephine Baker, the African American who became an exotic dancer in Paris in the 20s. She also spied for the French resistance, was a major player in the American civil rights movement and the Angelina Jolie of her day, adopting children from around the world. Look out for the gorgeous art deco bathrooms modelled on perfume bottles and her famous banana skirt. Another day drive to Limeuil, where the Dordogne and V\u00e9z\u00e8re rivers meet and you can go for a high-speed float in the strong currents, or kayak. Further away, on the coast, the incredible Dune du Pyla is Europe's biggest sand dune, and if you're in the area in May, the Bergerac jazz festival (jazzpourpre.com) is excellent.Gemma Bowes, acting travel editor of the GuardianProvence and the C\u00f4te d'Azur don't take kindly to budgets, but experiencing the region on the cheap is possible. I'd head to N\u00eemes (just over the border in Languedoc-Roussillon), preferably between 8-13 June for the F\u00e9ria (viva-la-feria.com), and either buy a ticket for the bullfighting at the Roman arena of Les Ar\u00e8nes (4 rue de la Violette, arenesdenimes.com) or settle for some gardiane, a bull casserole. I'd sleep at the excellent N\u00eemes youth hostel (\u20ac35 for a double, +33 4 6668 0320, hinimes.com).On to Arles and the fascinating Van Gogh walking tour (+33 4 9018 4120, arlestourisme.com) then, bellyful of bull finally digested \u2013 it won't go down without a fight \u2013 I'll have pizza at Chez N\u00e9n\u00e9 et B\u00e9b\u00e9 (12 impasses du Forum, +33 4 9093 4949, tinyurl.com/5sg57fg).I'd like to hit Avignon for its festival from 6-26 July (+33 4 9027 6650, festival- avignon.com) and to eat at Au Tout Petit (\u20ac25 for three courses, 4 rue d'Amphoux, +33 4 9082 3886, autoutpetit.fr), which serves good value, inventive dishes.Last stop, Aix-en-Provence, and I'd stretch the budget to stay at Le Manoir (\u20ac67 for a double room, 8 rue d'Entrecasteaux, +33 4 4226 2720, hotelmanoir.com), set in an historic house with a beautiful courtyard and 14th-century cloister.Neil McQuillian is a travel writer for Rough GuidesIt is easy to find the Languedoc. Just follow the Rh\u00f4ne river, and when you hit the southern French coast, instead of turning left to head to St Tropez or Provence, head right towards Spain. The region stretches over 16,000 square miles.Your first major stop is B\u00e9ziers, a city that seems almost more Spanish than French. It was a Cathar stronghold in medieval times and the site of a horrendous massacre in 1209 when crusaders besieged the city. The worst bloodshed took place in the cathedral, which you should visit, if only for the views across the city and the Orb. Then you have two choices for lunch; either the best wine-bar in the region, Le Chameau Ivre (15 place Jean Jaur\u00e8s, +33 4 6780 2020, tinyurl.com/5s93d5t), or a charming restaurant called Le Petit Monmartre (+33 4 6728 5654, lepetitmontmartre.net) in the elegant Place de la Madeleine. Stay at the H\u00f4tel des Po\u00e8tes, overlooking the park (80 all\u00e9es Paul Riquet, +33 4 67 76 38 66, hoteldespoetes.net).Next stop is the Etang de Bages, just outside Narbonne. You can walk along the wooden walkways over the water, or simply along the coastal paths, admiring the nature and the pink flamingoes. If you're hungry there is no nicer place to eat than the restaurant Le Portanel (pas de Portanel, +33 4 6842 8166, leportanel.fr).From there it is a short drive to Spain, but please don't miss Collioure (collioure.com), just before the border, a favourite haunt of the fauvist artists and famous for its anchovies.Helena Frith Powell is the author of Love in a Warm Climate (Gibson Square, \u00a38.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Dordogne holidays", "Provence holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Pyrenees holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Classic France: the insiders' guide"},{"date": "2011-03-21T08:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "To understand what literary life in France is like, imagine a pond. A pond that's getting smaller and smaller, with just as many fish in it, so that the water is getting more and more crowded. You can guess what happens: each one has less and less space to evolve, to find food, and even to develop the energy required to discuss ideas. Sales of books continue to be weak in 2011, after a particularly flat year for publishers and bookshops. Apart from the usual juggernauts, such as titles from the bestselling authors Mark L\u00e9vy and Am\u00e9lie Nothomb, and more sporadic successes such as the latest novel from Michel Houellebecq (winner of the Prix Goncourt in November last year), most novels and essays struggle to make any money.Yet the landscape certainly doesn't lack variety: for the past 30 years the French have benefited from a law setting a single book price, which has\u00a0made it possible to preserve diversity on the publishing scene. Rather than being flattened by concentration, many small publishers still do remarkable work, alongside the larger houses. As a result, a multiplicity of tastes can happily continue to be met, with tiny publishing houses often taking on translation projects or\u00a0the publication of complete works. In contrast to the early 90s, when lots of small publishers were going bankrupt, publishing today is no longer a\u00a0graveyard.Some smaller enterprises have been taken over by larger ones, but without necessarily losing their identity. So M\u00e9taili\u00e9 and L'Olivier were bought up by Le Seuil, while POL, Verticales and Jo\u00eblle Losfeld were bought by Gallimard. At a time when publishing companies, as well as the press, are losing their independence all over the world, Gallimard is celebrating its centenary as an independent company, and is in a state of health that would make many younger houses green with envy. The fact remains that the market is tightening relentlessly. As elsewhere, one can witness an increasing polarisation in sales, with the gap widening between titles that \"take off\", often the most mainstream ones, and all the others, notably midlist titles, whose sales have been completely squashed.This polarisation is reflected in the way the press talks about books. In newspapers the space devoted to literature is now relatively stable after a dramatic decline over the past 10 years. As a result, critics struggle to cover the full range of books produced, caught between the need to\u00a0talk about what everyone else is talking about, the\u00a0need to\u00a0explore types of literature that almost no one is talking about and the wish to get themselves talked about by\u00a0taking up increasingly clear-cut positions.In these circumstances, what happens to the discussion of ideas? It\u00a0is still alive with regard to the big questions that run through society (political, religious, social, historical, and so on). According to the philosopher and novelist Bernard-Henri L\u00e9vy,\u00a0the French situation is unusual in that, instead of being permanently fixed, \"intellectual groups re-form around each issue like iron filings around a magnet\", a situation which has become more marked in the last 20 years. In January 2011 the \"affaire C\u00e9line\" shook the cultural world. The\u00a0writer Louis-Ferdinand C\u00e9line, who wrote some truly great books and also some violently anti-semitic tracts, was included in the calendar of national commemorations, to mark\u00a0the 50th anniversary of his death. His presence in this official brochure provoked such a furore that the minister of culture eventually backed down and removed C\u00e9line.In the purely literary domain, on the other hand, debate is less lively. The controversies that arose when autobiographical fiction, or \"autofiction\", began to establish itself, thanks to writers such as Serge Doubrovsky (who invented the term), then Christine Angot and Camille Laurens, have more or less subsided. The publication, in January this year, of Angot's latest novel, Les petits (Flammarion), caused hardly any debate, as if the critics had got used to this type of writing and to the dangers it can bring.Indeed, \"autofiction\", which introduces a character sharing the same name as the author, in situations which are more or less fictitious, has an almost incestuous relationship with the real world. As a result, this bold genre, which has given French literature some of its most interesting books in the last few years, is not neutral \u2013 and this is undoubtedly one\u00a0of its strengths. However, autofiction no longer sparks the same passions as it did 10 years ago. In the case of Angot's latest, which has not had the anticipated impact on readers, it has taken a lawsuit to rouse the literary world from its torpor: one brought by the ex-girlfriend of the man Angot shares her life with, and from whom the writer drew inspiration in her book.Another lawsuit has drawn attention to a book by the prominent author R\u00e9gis Jauffret a year after its publication: in S\u00e9v\u00e8re, published by Seuil in January 2010, Jauffret was clearly inspired by the Stern affair (the\u00a0assassination of a rich banker by his mistress, in the course of sado-masochistic games), without ever naming the real protagonists. The novel was received reasonably well by critics and had some moderate success in bookshops. But several months later, when faced with the prospect of a film adaptation, Edouard Stern's family become concerned and\u00a0attacked the author. The latter found immediate support from about 20 writers and intellectuals who signed a petition on his behalf, launched at the instigation of the magazine La R\u00e8gle du jeu.The new generation of writers seems not to worry unduly about these questions. Writers such as Yannick Haenel, Maylis de K\u00e9rangal and Delphine Coulin are making a name for themselves without belonging to any school: reworking plots when it suits them, using fiction or autofiction in their own ways, and inventing new forms when they can. And that's all to the good.1 Indignez vous! (Cry out!) by St\u00e9phane Hessel (former diplomat's plea for outrage from French people at the state of their nation)2 La carte et le territoire by Michel Houellebecq (Goncourt winner)3 Les \u00e9cureuils de Central Park sont tristes le lundi by Katherine Pancol (New York-based novel)4 M\u00e9tronome: L'histoire de France au rythme du m\u00e9tro parisien by Lorant Deutsch (history)5 La m\u00e9thode Dukan illustr\u00e9e by Pierre Dukan (illustrated diet plan)Total 2010 book sales 464.5m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture", "Fiction"], "title": "What they're reading in France"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Champagne might be prohibitively expensive to drink, but it's a great place to visit, with all the major producers used to hosting tours round their cellars. In Epernay, stroll along the recently revamped Avenue de Champagne (termed \"the world's most drinkable address\" by Winston Churchill) and gawp at the 19th-century mansions belonging to the likes of Mo\u00ebt & Chandon (+33 3 2651 2020, moet.com), Mercier, Pol Roger, De Castellane, Perrier-Jou\u00ebt and Boizel. For \u20ac15 you get a tour of Mo\u00ebt's vast, 27km-long cellars and a glass of Mo\u00ebt Brut Imperial.The Rh\u00f4ne Valley is rich in wine, being home to the likes of C\u00f4te-R\u00f4tie and Hermitage in the north and Gigondas and Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape in the south. Do some research on websites such as yapp.co.uk and provencefoodandwine.com beforehand. In the southern Rh\u00f4ne, visit Domaine de Beaurenard in Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape (+33 4 9083 7179, beaurenard.fr) for a fascinating (and free) no-appointment-necessary tasting in their ancient cellars; and in the northern Rh\u00f4ne visit Maison Chapoutier (+33 4 7508 9261, chapoutier.com) in Tain l'Hermitage for the same. And, if you can wait until January next year, head to Ampuis for the four-day-long Foire d'Ampuis (+33 4 7456 1820), where for \u20ac8 you get a free glass and a chance to meet 60 Rh\u00f4ne producers.Travellers to the city of Bordeaux can find the price of even the most basic glass of wine alarming, so beware. The best place in town to get a decent, well-priced drink is Le Bar \u00e0 Vin (3 cours du 30 Juillet, +33 5 5600 4347, baravin.bordeaux.com). A light, spacious wine bar attached to l'Ecole du Vin (+33 5 5600 2285, vins-bordeaux.fr), it could hardly be more central, being a few hundred yards from the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre. It is also full of information about tours through the region as well as wine courses in l'Ecole itself. Heavily subsidised by the CIVB (the Bordeaux producers' association), it has a wide-ranging selection of local wines by the glass at absurdly accessible prices.There is no shortage of places to stay in and around Bordeaux but, again, these can be pricey. Among the best value are the H\u00f4tel de S\u00e8ze and its sister, the H\u00f4tel Royal M\u00e9doc (rue de S\u00e8ze, +33 5 5681 7242, hotelsezemedoc.free.fr). They are right in the heart of the city and are both much favoured by the English wine trade. They're simple and basic but, with rooms starting from \u20ac60 for a double, they're great value. For something a bit more wacky and out-of-town, try the wonderful treehouses (+33 5 5646 2948, naturacabana.fr) in the grounds of the Ch\u00e2teau de Malleret, 15km from Bordeaux. Prices start from \u20ac145 for three in a cabin.Saumur in the heart of the Loire Valley and its vineyards is within easy distance of the Channel ports. If your budget allows, book into the handsome Hotel Anne d'Anjou (+33 2 4167 3030, hotel-anneanjou.com), where rooms start from \u20ac105 per night. If budget doesn't allow, head for the Ile d'Offard in the middle of the river and the Hostel rue de Verden or its neighbouring campsite, Camping de l'Ile d'Offard (\u20ac16 for a two-person pitch, +33 2 4140 3000, cvtloisirs.com). Enjoy the superb local sparkling wines and honeyed chenin blancs and take a tour (and sample the excellent absinthe) at the tiny Combier distillery (48 rue Beaurepaire, +33 2 41 40 23 00, combier.fr).Alsace is a perfect place for pottering about with its Route de Vin (alsace-route-des-vins.com) easily negotiated by bicycle, so long as you're prepared for the occasional steep hill (you're in the foothills of the Vosges here). The region's medieval towns and villages such as Colmar, Obernai, Ribeauvill\u00e9 and Turckheim are absurdly picturesque with cobbled streets and half-timbered houses. Nearly all producers have free tastings for the public, with no obligation to buy. Park your bike at the foot of the main street in Riquewihr and wander up to the clock tower, taking in the various wine shops en route, perhaps stopping for a plate of choucroute \u00e0 l'Alsacienne. Hugel et Fils (3 rue de la Premi\u00e8re Arm\u00e9e, +33 3 8947 9215, hugel.com) is the best place to start.Gascony is a blessed spot, whose inhabitants, despite enjoying a diet rich in foie gras and confit de canard, boast lower levels of heart disease than anyone else in France and live an average five years longer. They put this down to their wines. Stay at British-owned Domaine de Lauroux (+33 5 6208 5676, lauroux.com), where a g\u00eete for six starts at \u20ac600 per week, and explore the region. Visit Bastide d'Armagnac (labastide-darmagnac.net) with its enchanting square colonnaded central place; Notre-Dame des Cyclistes (notredamedescyclistes.net), a tiny 11th-century chapel where Tour de France competitors come to pray; the exquisite hamlet of Larressingle (and taste its equally exquisite armagnac \u2013 tinyurl.com/6z7yo22); the food market of Eauze and buy foie gras, croustade and armagnac direct from artisan producers. (tourisme-gers.com).Go hiking on Les Calanques, the limestone cliffs with jaw-dropping views that run along the Mediterranean coast between Marseille and Cassis. Scramble down to an isolated cove for a gentle swim and a languorous picnic. Be sure to pack some bottles of Provence's hidden vinous gems in your basket, such as Cassis, Bandol, Palette and Bellet. Cassis itself is a delight, a bustling fishing port with dozens of restaurants, each attempting to outdo the other with their pistou soup and bouillabaisse. Enjoy them with Cassis wine (of which there are only 14 producers), a heady blend of marsanne, clairette and ugni blanc, and not to be confused with the blackcurrant cr\u00e8me de cassis.Corsica might seem a bit off-piste but the wines are increasingly fine (and remain excellent value) and the island itself is a bewitching spot with snow-capped mountains, rugged granite hills, flower-strewn meadows and pristine sandy beaches. Head for the hills around Sart\u00e8ne and seek out the delicate local ros\u00e9s. Or stop at roadside taverns to scoff wild boar salami and figatellu (liver sausage made from the local Corsican black pig), washed down with aromatic, herb-tinged reds made from the strange-sounding nielluccio and sciaccarellu grapes. And if you make it to Cap Corse in the far north, seek out the luscious, lip-smacking dessert muscats, long thought to be the island's crowning glory. Producers to look out for include Domaine Saparale (saparale.com), Domaine Torraccia and Domaine Pieretti (vinpieretti.com).Being in northern France, Montreuil-sur-Mer isn't in wine country at all. It is, though, home to the French outpost of the Wine Society (01438 741177, winesociety.com) and, as such, well worth a visit. Close to both Calais and Boulogne, it is easily accessible from the UK and ideal for a day trip. You can save a minimum \u00a318 a case by buying from here rather than the Wine Society's shop in Stevenage, and with over 200 wines to choose from there's no shortage of choice. A return on Eurotunnel (08443 353535, eurotunnel.com), plus petrol, plus lunch for two, comes to around \u00a390; the saving on buying five cases of wine is \u00a390. Enjoy a day for free in France!", "tags": ["France holidays", "Wine", "Food and drink", "Bordeaux holidays", "Corsica holidays", "Travel", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Budget wine trips in France"},{"date": "2011-01-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"We don't have a stronger friend and stronger ally than Nicolas Sarkozy, and the French people\" Barack Obama said today. Uh oh. No sooner had he done so than Washington-based British analyst Nile Gardiner rushed to his keyboard to blog for the Daily Telegraph: \"Quite what the French have done to merit this kind of high praise from the US president is difficult to fathom, and if the White House means what it says this represents an extraordinary sea change in US foreign policy.\" Touchy, aren't we?He goes on, outraged: \"To suggest that Paris and not London is Washington's strongest partner is simply ludicrous.\" And finishes, seemingly frothing at the mouth: \"No US president in modern times has described France as America's closest ally, and such a remark is not only factually wrong but also insulting to Britain, not least coming just a few years after the French famously knifed Washington in the back over the war in Iraq.\" Can somebody offer Mr Gardiner an aspirin?Nile, you shouldn't feel so bad, Obama was just being polite. As all presidents hosting foreign heads of state know, you simply cannot escape saying things like: \"Hamid Karzai is a great friend of the United States\" as George W Bush declared many times, or \"Colonel Gaddafi is a great friend of France\" as Sarkozy said when he invited the Libyan dictator to set up his tent with his all-female entourage in the gardens of the Elys\u00e9es in November 2007.Having said that, if you look at it historically, I'm sorry to say that it is factually and emotionally right for the American president to describe France as the US's greatest ally. 3 September 1783, anyone? Lord Cornwallis? General Rochambeau? French may have narrowly missed out on being chosen as the language of the United States, but without France, there'd be no American independence.As \"for knifing Washington in the back over the war in Iraq\", France was only doing the courageous act of warning a dear old friend that they were terribly wrong. Other allies thought no better but to acquiesce.In general, France and the French have a more straightforward relationship to America than their neighbours across the Channel. The idea is that love doesn't have to be servile. A fair amount of criticism is even expected and welcome, it is the sign of an equal and healthy relationship. If the leftist intelligentsia felt it needed to deride America just after the second world war, a majority of the French people embraced American culture.Many American artists and film directors, from Nicholas Ray to the Coen brothers, owe a large part of their world reputation to French film critics. To be a good friend, one has to be independent. That was always the point of view of French presidents from de Gaulle to Chirac. Nicolas Sarkozy is a unique figure in French politics, one who resorts to obsequiousness rather than healthy esprit critique. The truth is that Nicolas Sarkozy wishes he was American. But that's another story...", "tags": ["US news", "France", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France, America's special friend | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is called the Emerald coast and bears its name with panache. From Cancale, world capital for oysters, to St Briac, where Renoir loved daydreaming, this stretch of granite rocks and gold sand shelters resorts with everything discerning visitors on a budget could dream of. Among them is Dinard, between St Malo and St Lunaire. There, pitch your tent at the Camping du Port Blanc (rue du Sergent Boulanger, +33 2 9946 1074, camping-port-blanc.com) on the beach, from \u20ac13pp a night, or rent a studio at the charming La Pens\u00e9e in St Lunaire (la-pensee.pagesperso-orange.fr) from \u20ac195 for a week.Among the many things to do in and around Dinard: swim, sail, walk, eat and hunt for antiques. In Dinard and St Lunaire, Point Passion Plage (digue de L'Ecluse, Dinard, +33 2 9988 1520, pointplage.fr) provides kayak, catamaran and windsurf lessons and rentals. You can also purchase a \u20ac92 pass that will give you access to all their activities.Your stay on the Emerald coast wouldn't be complete without a taste of the region's best galettes, such as those of Cr\u00eaperie du Roy (9 boulevard F\u00e9art, Dinard, +33 2 9946 1057). Go for the galette soubise (onions cooked in muscadet) and cr\u00eape pomme maison flamb\u00e9e au calvados \u2013 your palate (and wallet) will be forever grateful.If you want to treat yourself, then veer towards the promenade au Clair de Lune. At the end stands La Gonelle (+33 2 9916 4047, lagonelle.com), a seafood and fish restaurant open from 15 April to 30 September. You can choose your fish from the aquarium; the chef will present it to you on a platter as it breathes its last.There's no need for a car in Dinard. Public transport, such as the bus linking St Briac to St Malo (illenoo-services.fr), or the vedette (boat) taking you to St Malo every half-hour (vedettes-saint-malo.com), are reliable and cheap. You can also rent a bike for the day near Dinard's market (8 rue St Enogat, +33 2 9946 2725, breizhcycles.com) and cycle to the medieval city of Dinan (dinan-tourisme.com). You'll pedal through sunflower fields and old villages and hug the River Rance for a few miles. Dinard will leave you with wonderful and enduring souvenirs.French-born Agn\u00e8s Poirier is a political commentator and film critic based in ParisIn order to do the Marcel Proust tour of Normandy properly, you should ideally be driven by a bisexual chauffeur you're lusting after. If you can't manage that, then hire a convertible two-seater and get your significant other to wear goggles, kinky rubber coat and close-fitting aviator's hat while you shout relevant passages from A la Recherche du Temps Perdu from the passenger seat.Drive first to the Grand H\u00f4tel Cabourg (les jardins du Casino, +33 2 3191 0179, accorhotels.com) on the lovely C\u00f4te Fleurie (Flower Coast). Proust checked into his fourth floor suite here feverish and exhausted in the summer 1907. He wrote: \"\u2026 menaced by the enemies thronging around me, penetrated to the very bones by fever, I was alone and wanted to die\". When I stayed in the Marcel Proust suite with my beloved, by contrast, I couldn't have been happier. I flung open the French windows on to the Promenade de Marcel Proust and rang for the best room service I've ever had \u2013 champagne with confite de daurade aux hu\u00eetres.You could splash out and do the same \u2013 a double room costs from \u20ac165. Or stay at nearby La Raspeli\u00e8re (from \u20ac80 for a double, chambres-hotes-cabourg.fr), and then dine at Le Balbec restaurant below the Grand H\u00f4tel, with its marvellous seasonal seafood menu (three courses from \u20ac56). First, though, have a Proust cocktail (gin, cointreau, orange and cura\u00e7ao bleu) in the Belle Epoque bar while listening to Scott Joplin on the computerised pianola.Next morning follow Proust and the love of his life, chauffeur Albert Agostinelli, on their tour of Norman architecture. They went to Bayeux, not to see the tapestry, but to pay homage to oriental figures in the romanesque part of Bayeux cathedral. They didn't, as far as I can find out, have lunch in Bayeux's restaurants (try La Rapi\u00e8re, off rue St Jean, +33 2 3121 0545, larapiere.net) offering Norman-style cooking. But you should.Rejoin Proust's tour by visiting the abbeys of Jumi\u00e8ges, Saint-Wandrille and Saint-Georges de Bouscheville, perhaps taking tea at the Ch\u00e2teau de Balleroy (chateau-balleroy.com), where Proust savoured Boucher's tapestries.Check into another grand hotel \u2013 the Grand H\u00f4tel de l'Esp\u00e9rance at Lisieux (from \u20ac69 a night, lisieux-hotel.com) and after dinner, get your chauffeur to drive you to the cathedral of St Pierre. It was here that in 1907 Proust studied the facade's foliated tracery, illuminated by Agostinelli's headlamps.The following morning drive towards Illiers, where adolescent Marcel stayed. On the way, you'd be idiotic not to visit Chartres cathedral (chartres-tourisme.com). Illiers itself is a scruffy backwater village transformed into Combray in the novel. Today the house where Proust's Tante L\u00e9onie lived is a little museum (marcelproust.pagesperso-orange.fr). From Illiers, you could drive to Monet's garden at Giverny (\u20ac8, giverny.org/gardens). Proust repeatedly planned to go, but never made it. A shame: given his love of botany and his hypersensitive openness to beauty, he would have adored it.Stuart Jeffries is a feature writer and ex-Paris correspondent for the GuardianThe Loire Valley has to be France's most fran\u00e7ais region. Its people speak the purest French, and it's also at the heart of the country's history \u2013 a fascinating base for a week's touring.The most famous chateau, and justifiably so, is Chenonceau (chenonceau.com) in Indre-et-Loire \u2013 it straddles a lake on a series of arches, and was a gift from King Henri II to his lover Diane de Poitiers, a woman so sexy that the Queen, Catherine de Medici, used to spy on the couple's lovemaking to learn a few tricks. Chenonceau is to chateaux what Monica Bellucci is to cinema. Le Relais de Chenonceaux (+33 2 4723 9811, chenonceaux.com), close to the chateau, has double rooms from \u20ac52, half-board from \u20ac92.To the south-west, across vineyard-covered countryside stands the hilltop Ch\u00e2teau de Chinon (visit-loire.com/cities-loire/chinon). You can stand in the very room where Joan of Arc performed a \"miracle\" in 1429. To test her divine inspiration, Prince Charles (no, not that one) hid in disguise among his courtiers. Unerringly, Joan picked him out. Miraculous, until you realise that the knock-kneed, squinty-eyed prince was one of the most recognisable men in France.A great-value day out is a rent-a-bike ride along the Loire riverbanks from the medieval Ch\u00e2teau de Blois (chateaudeblois.fr): Tra\u00eeneurs de Loire (traineursdeloire.com) rent out bikes for \u20ac13 a day from several locations along the river.In the evenings, the region is the perfect place for a gourmet feast. In the old centre of Saumur, Auberge Saint-Pierre (6 place Saint-Pierre, auberge-saintpierre.com) has traditional regional cuisine at reasonable prices, such as boeuf bourguignon for \u20ac11.50.And if I taste a wine I like at dinner, I ask the restaurateur for the grower's address, then drop by next day to stock up at wholesale prices. Chinon blanc sec, for example, is a golden drink that inspires descriptions like \"harmonious\", \"fruity\" and \"generous with its charms\" \u2013 very much like this part of France itself.Stephen Clarke, author of A Year in the Merde (Black Swan, \u00a37.99). His new book, Paris Revealed, is out on 31 MarchThe first time I travelled down to France's south-west corner, it was to investigate the region's separatist movement, Iparetarrak (IK), a more amateurish and considerably less violent version of Eta. For many years, IK was secretly applauded by those Parisians lucky enough to own houses along that pristine stretch of Atlantic coastline. Twenty years on, the revolutionaries that fed IK have retired and development along the coastline has mushroomed. New-builds have sprung up on the hills, and traffic jams along the coast's route nationale are the norm.There is one place, however, that has not changed. Gu\u00e9thary is a small fishing village nestled between the chichi seaside towns of Biarritz and Saint Jean-de-Luz. It is also one of Europe's more confidential surf spots and so it has been contaminated or preserved, depending on your point of view, by a certain alternative vibe that seems to co-exist quite nicely with the well-heeled Parisian families who have been holidaying there since the 60s.The village is sliced in two by the route nationale, so you'll want to make sure you're staying on the right side of it. Head straight to the Hotel Madrid (+33 5 5926 5212, lemadrid.com) in the heart of the village. Here the sound of the ocean rubs out the distant rumble of traffic. Unaltered since the turn of the last century when Paul Klee stayed here and sat with Kandinsky on its windswept terrace overlooking the sea, Le Madrid is still a simple, family hotel with five pretty rooms, from \u20ac59 a night, and a good restaurant.Gu\u00e9thary is one of those magical places to which people return faithfully all their lives. My own children would play for hours on its vast fronton (court), theoretically for pelota but more often for impromptu football, or rollerskating, or teenage flirting or, at night, dances and fireworks or Basque games (shows of strength).In the morning, you might walk down to one of Gu\u00e9thary's three beaches: la Plage du Centre to mess around in the rockpools and eat chipirones (tiny squid) or gambas a la plancha (grilled shrimp) at Kostaldea, a little place right on the beach. Or there are the wilder beaches of Les Alcyons or Cenitz, where you can lie on the white sand or body-surf in the big waves. Later, while the children play outside you can be in the Bar Basque opposite the Madrid, drinking sangria and watching the sunset.Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber, \u00a37.99)With a unique Franco-German character, Alsace offers stunning mountainous scenery, gorgeous villages, fascinating museums and wonderful wines. My ideal itinerary around the region kicks off high up in the Vosges mountains. The wonderful little eco-hotel Villa Rosa (rue Thierry Schoerem, +33 3 8949 8119, villarosa.fr) in Trois-Epis, near the town of Colmar, is the perfect place to relax. It has eight comfortable rooms costing from \u20ac63 per night, and its owner, Anne-Rose, creates wonderful meals with the vegetables, herbs and flowers from her garden (\u20ac26 for three courses).After winding down for a day or two next to the solar-heated pool or taking walks from the hotel, I'll jump in the hire car for some thrilling drives through the mountains. The hairpin bends aren't for the faint-hearted, and the roads' steep hills are a popular challenge for cyclists. My destination is the nearby village of Turckheim. Like my other favourite villages, Eguisheim and Riquewihr, Turckheim has wonderful narrow streets rambling through colourful timber-framed houses with window boxes in full bloom. My stroll will also have me sniffing out one of Turckheim's wineries where I'll sample the local riesling and gew\u00fcrztraminer.Not far from Turckheim is the imposing Ch\u00e2teau du Haut-Koenigsbourg (haut-koenigsbourg.fr). Sitting high over the vineyard-lined valley, the castle dates from the 12th century and offers incredible views across to the Black Forest in Germany. After a poke around its battlements, I'll carry on to Colmar, a gorgeous little town in the heart of Alsace. Lunch is at the characterful restaurant Maison Rouge (9, rue des Ecoles, Colmar, +33 3 8923 5322), where I'll tuck into a salad of the local Munster cheese, or a delicious tarte flamb\u00e9e, before walking it off along the canal in the area known as Petite Venise (Little Venice).Carolyn Boyd is editor of France magazine (francemag.com) Beneath Tiepolo skies, it's a gentle amble through shimmering cognac vines down to the Charente river for a dip in the calm waters. Such is the idyllic nature of summer days in the Charente, second-sunniest corner of France, after the Riviera.The riverside town of Cognac has for four centuries been the home of cognac-making, now a booming export trade, not least among the American rapper fraternity where it's known as \"yak\". In the courtyard restaurant of the quirkily decorated but comfortable Hotel Heritage (25, rue d'Angoul\u00eame, +33 5 4582 0126, hheritage.com, doubles \u20ac70) or in the smartly cosy Le Bistro de Claude (35 rue Grande, +33 5 4582 6032, bistro-de-claude.com) the spirit Victor Hugo dubbed \"the liquor of the gods\" is served in tulip glasses to stop aromas escaping.Most cognac houses \u2013 such as Hennessy, Martell and R\u00e9my Martin \u2013 offer visits and tastings. But Baron Otard (baronotard.com) has the advantage of being in the Ch\u00e2teau de Cognac so the tour takes in Renaissance halls designed by Leonardo da Vinci and plunges into a fungi-draped dungeon, the \"paradise cellar\", where cognacs from centuries past are stored.For sustenance of the soul, the nearby thousand-year-old Abbey of Bassac (+33 5 4581 9422, abbayebassac.com) has a tangible spirituality and visitors are welcome to stroll in the near-silent gardens. Within the same tiny village there's a choice of two good restaurants, L'Essille (rue de Conde, +33 5 4581 9413, hotel-restaurant-essille.com) and L'Auberge de Cond\u00e9 (, doubles \u20ac35, rue Rixendis Loriches, +33 5 4583 0967, auberge-de-conde.net).But for an insight into contemporary French culture, head to Angoul\u00eame, historic home of papermaking and capital of the comic book. On a ramble through the hilly Charente capital you'll spot some of the 20 or so giant-scale cartoon scenes painted on to the sides of buildings by top comic strip artists.Lennox Morrison is an author and journalist based in ParisThe prehistoric Lascaux caves, Bergerac, and Sarlat are the famous sites of the Dordogne region of Aquitaine, but in the bit I know well I've found many surprising treasures. Make a base in the pretty village of Sainte Alv\u00e8re, such as the sweet Roquebrune en P\u00e9rigord (+33 5 5361 2418, roquebrune-perigord.com, \u20ac75 for two), where you will be tempted to spend a week scoffing saucisson, truffles and foie gras from the weekly market (the rotisserie chicken van is amazing). Go dancing one night with local farmers, families and dreadlocked hippies at La Guinguette de Neufonds, a fun restaurant beside a lake (where you can swim) near Vergt, that has a cheap buffet with live music ranging from Gypsy jazz to local ska-punk.My top day trips are as follows. A wonderful chateau with an interesting backstory is Ch\u00e2teau des Milandes (milandes.com) in Castelnaud-la-Chapelle, once the home of Josephine Baker, the African American who became an exotic dancer in Paris in the 20s. She also spied for the French resistance, was a major player in the American civil rights movement and the Angelina Jolie of her day, adopting children from around the world. Look out for the gorgeous art deco bathrooms modelled on perfume bottles and her famous banana skirt. Another day drive to Limeuil, where the Dordogne and V\u00e9z\u00e8re rivers meet and you can go for a high-speed float in the strong currents, or kayak. Further away, on the coast, the incredible Dune du Pyla is Europe's biggest sand dune, and if you're in the area in May, the Bergerac jazz festival (jazzpourpre.com) is excellent.Gemma Bowes, acting travel editor of the GuardianProvence and the C\u00f4te d'Azur don't take kindly to budgets, but experiencing the region on the cheap is possible. I'd head to N\u00eemes (just over the border in Languedoc-Roussillon), preferably between 8-13 June for the F\u00e9ria (viva-la-feria.com), and either buy a ticket for the bullfighting at the Roman arena of Les Ar\u00e8nes (4 rue de la Violette, arenesdenimes.com) or settle for some gardiane, a bull casserole. I'd sleep at the excellent N\u00eemes youth hostel (\u20ac35 for a double, +33 4 6668 0320, hinimes.com).On to Arles and the fascinating Van Gogh walking tour (+33 4 9018 4120, arlestourisme.com) then, bellyful of bull finally digested \u2013 it won't go down without a fight \u2013 I'll have pizza at Chez N\u00e9n\u00e9 et B\u00e9b\u00e9 (12 impasses du Forum, +33 4 9093 4949, tinyurl.com/5sg57fg).I'd like to hit Avignon for its festival from 6-26 July (+33 4 9027 6650, festival- avignon.com) and to eat at Au Tout Petit (\u20ac25 for three courses, 4 rue d'Amphoux, +33 4 9082 3886, autoutpetit.fr), which serves good value, inventive dishes.Last stop, Aix-en-Provence, and I'd stretch the budget to stay at Le Manoir (\u20ac67 for a double room, 8 rue d'Entrecasteaux, +33 4 4226 2720, hotelmanoir.com), set in an historic house with a beautiful courtyard and 14th-century cloister.Neil McQuillian is a travel writer for Rough GuidesIt is easy to find the Languedoc. Just follow the Rh\u00f4ne river, and when you hit the southern French coast, instead of turning left to head to St Tropez or Provence, head right towards Spain. The region stretches over 16,000 square miles.Your first major stop is B\u00e9ziers, a city that seems almost more Spanish than French. It was a Cathar stronghold in medieval times and the site of a horrendous massacre in 1209 when crusaders besieged the city. The worst bloodshed took place in the cathedral, which you should visit, if only for the views across the city and the Orb. Then you have two choices for lunch; either the best wine-bar in the region, Le Chameau Ivre (15 place Jean Jaur\u00e8s, +33 4 6780 2020, tinyurl.com/5s93d5t), or a charming restaurant called Le Petit Monmartre (+33 4 6728 5654, lepetitmontmartre.net) in the elegant Place de la Madeleine. Stay at the H\u00f4tel des Po\u00e8tes, overlooking the park (80 all\u00e9es Paul Riquet, +33 4 67 76 38 66, hoteldespoetes.net).Next stop is the Etang de Bages, just outside Narbonne. You can walk along the wooden walkways over the water, or simply along the coastal paths, admiring the nature and the pink flamingoes. If you're hungry there is no nicer place to eat than the restaurant Le Portanel (pas de Portanel, +33 4 6842 8166, leportanel.fr).From there it is a short drive to Spain, but please don't miss Collioure (collioure.com), just before the border, a favourite haunt of the fauvist artists and famous for its anchovies.Helena Frith Powell is the author of Love in a Warm Climate (Gibson Square, \u00a38.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Dordogne holidays", "Provence holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Pyrenees holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Classic France: the insiders' guide"},{"date": "2011-03-21T08:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "To understand what literary life in France is like, imagine a pond. A pond that's getting smaller and smaller, with just as many fish in it, so that the water is getting more and more crowded. You can guess what happens: each one has less and less space to evolve, to find food, and even to develop the energy required to discuss ideas. Sales of books continue to be weak in 2011, after a particularly flat year for publishers and bookshops. Apart from the usual juggernauts, such as titles from the bestselling authors Mark L\u00e9vy and Am\u00e9lie Nothomb, and more sporadic successes such as the latest novel from Michel Houellebecq (winner of the Prix Goncourt in November last year), most novels and essays struggle to make any money.Yet the landscape certainly doesn't lack variety: for the past 30 years the French have benefited from a law setting a single book price, which has\u00a0made it possible to preserve diversity on the publishing scene. Rather than being flattened by concentration, many small publishers still do remarkable work, alongside the larger houses. As a result, a multiplicity of tastes can happily continue to be met, with tiny publishing houses often taking on translation projects or\u00a0the publication of complete works. In contrast to the early 90s, when lots of small publishers were going bankrupt, publishing today is no longer a\u00a0graveyard.Some smaller enterprises have been taken over by larger ones, but without necessarily losing their identity. So M\u00e9taili\u00e9 and L'Olivier were bought up by Le Seuil, while POL, Verticales and Jo\u00eblle Losfeld were bought by Gallimard. At a time when publishing companies, as well as the press, are losing their independence all over the world, Gallimard is celebrating its centenary as an independent company, and is in a state of health that would make many younger houses green with envy. The fact remains that the market is tightening relentlessly. As elsewhere, one can witness an increasing polarisation in sales, with the gap widening between titles that \"take off\", often the most mainstream ones, and all the others, notably midlist titles, whose sales have been completely squashed.This polarisation is reflected in the way the press talks about books. In newspapers the space devoted to literature is now relatively stable after a dramatic decline over the past 10 years. As a result, critics struggle to cover the full range of books produced, caught between the need to\u00a0talk about what everyone else is talking about, the\u00a0need to\u00a0explore types of literature that almost no one is talking about and the wish to get themselves talked about by\u00a0taking up increasingly clear-cut positions.In these circumstances, what happens to the discussion of ideas? It\u00a0is still alive with regard to the big questions that run through society (political, religious, social, historical, and so on). According to the philosopher and novelist Bernard-Henri L\u00e9vy,\u00a0the French situation is unusual in that, instead of being permanently fixed, \"intellectual groups re-form around each issue like iron filings around a magnet\", a situation which has become more marked in the last 20 years. In January 2011 the \"affaire C\u00e9line\" shook the cultural world. The\u00a0writer Louis-Ferdinand C\u00e9line, who wrote some truly great books and also some violently anti-semitic tracts, was included in the calendar of national commemorations, to mark\u00a0the 50th anniversary of his death. His presence in this official brochure provoked such a furore that the minister of culture eventually backed down and removed C\u00e9line.In the purely literary domain, on the other hand, debate is less lively. The controversies that arose when autobiographical fiction, or \"autofiction\", began to establish itself, thanks to writers such as Serge Doubrovsky (who invented the term), then Christine Angot and Camille Laurens, have more or less subsided. The publication, in January this year, of Angot's latest novel, Les petits (Flammarion), caused hardly any debate, as if the critics had got used to this type of writing and to the dangers it can bring.Indeed, \"autofiction\", which introduces a character sharing the same name as the author, in situations which are more or less fictitious, has an almost incestuous relationship with the real world. As a result, this bold genre, which has given French literature some of its most interesting books in the last few years, is not neutral \u2013 and this is undoubtedly one\u00a0of its strengths. However, autofiction no longer sparks the same passions as it did 10 years ago. In the case of Angot's latest, which has not had the anticipated impact on readers, it has taken a lawsuit to rouse the literary world from its torpor: one brought by the ex-girlfriend of the man Angot shares her life with, and from whom the writer drew inspiration in her book.Another lawsuit has drawn attention to a book by the prominent author R\u00e9gis Jauffret a year after its publication: in S\u00e9v\u00e8re, published by Seuil in January 2010, Jauffret was clearly inspired by the Stern affair (the\u00a0assassination of a rich banker by his mistress, in the course of sado-masochistic games), without ever naming the real protagonists. The novel was received reasonably well by critics and had some moderate success in bookshops. But several months later, when faced with the prospect of a film adaptation, Edouard Stern's family become concerned and\u00a0attacked the author. The latter found immediate support from about 20 writers and intellectuals who signed a petition on his behalf, launched at the instigation of the magazine La R\u00e8gle du jeu.The new generation of writers seems not to worry unduly about these questions. Writers such as Yannick Haenel, Maylis de K\u00e9rangal and Delphine Coulin are making a name for themselves without belonging to any school: reworking plots when it suits them, using fiction or autofiction in their own ways, and inventing new forms when they can. And that's all to the good.1 Indignez vous! (Cry out!) by St\u00e9phane Hessel (former diplomat's plea for outrage from French people at the state of their nation)2 La carte et le territoire by Michel Houellebecq (Goncourt winner)3 Les \u00e9cureuils de Central Park sont tristes le lundi by Katherine Pancol (New York-based novel)4 M\u00e9tronome: L'histoire de France au rythme du m\u00e9tro parisien by Lorant Deutsch (history)5 La m\u00e9thode Dukan illustr\u00e9e by Pierre Dukan (illustrated diet plan)Total 2010 book sales 464.5m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture", "Fiction"], "title": "What they're reading in France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T06:30:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "In the past 60 years, two major choices have shaped French foreign policy while pulling France and the UK apart: the European project begun after the second world war and built in accordance with Jean Monnet's conception,; and national independence, as sought by Charles de Gaulle after his return to power in 1958. These two paths were contradictory, the first only comprehensible because France, having twice nearly perished during the first part of the 20th century, had such profound doubts about itself that it chose to make Europe a substitute for the nation. The UK, however, could not come to terms with having to fade within a \"supranational\" Europe.This view was shared by De Gaulle: the general did not believe in supranationality, but he did want to build a \"Europe of nations\". Beyond this, he defined his objective as the emergence of a \"European Europe\" \u2013 agent of its own destiny. This was a bitter pill to swallow for the UK, which was attached to its special relationship with the US.Today, the crisis of the euro reflects the impasse reached by supranational Europe. The French project of burying German reunification within a federal Europe \u2013 the idea behind the Maastricht treaty \u2013 ended long ago. And curiously, it is this moment which President Sarkozy has chosen for France to rejoin Nato, under the bizarre pretext of facilitating the emergence of \"European defence\".French diplomacy thus has a double hangover. Germany has dragged Europe, or in any case the eurozone, into a bidding war of economic rigour leading to a historical dead end. France does not dare to challenge Angela Merkel's policy, because it is reluctant to question the rules of the game accepted by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand when they were set out, back when he thought he could modify them when the right moment presented itself. They have now proven to be inadequate and impossible to change in substance: thanks to the rules imposed by Maastricht, the European central bank does not believe it has the authority to intervene in debt markets in order to smash speculation and save the euro. The currency is doomed \u2013 it is smothering every economy in Europe, except Germany's. Floating between the dollar and the Chinese yuan, we are, in effect, caught in the jaws of the G2, or \"Chinamerica\".This is all the more worrying because, in addition, French diplomacy has recently followed in the wake of US diplomacy. But the US is less and less concerned about Europe; it is increasingly turned towards the Pacific and China. While French diplomacy has lost its bearings, it could find them anew if it returned to De Gaulle's Europe of nations, whose vocation is to exist between the US and China. Is this the path laid out by the Anglo-French agreements of November 2010? It is too early to say, however desirable the prospect may be. Relations with Barack Obama are no longer a bone of contention between the two countries. The UK is seeking to influence the US by remaining close to it, France is pursuing the same objective by opposite means: independence, but within an alliance. And as for Nato? Yes, but only on the condition that we do not compromise our influence in Arab countries.In recent weeks, the US has only allowed France and the UK a hand in Libya, nothing more. Our two long-lived nations must, together, represent the aims of the US leadership while also taking care to work within a frame of legality in an international context, keeping the protection of civilians in mind. We must respect the democratic will currently expressed by the Arab world, and gather a maximum number of Arab, African and developing countries around a strategy which should only seek to establish the conditions of self-determination for the Libyan people. This is how we will, together, best prepare the future of a great democratic Europe of the nations \u2013 one stretching from the Mediterranean to Russia.The UK has to consider its future with Europe. Our two nations could help set Europe back on her feet. We could do Europe this service at the same time as we do it for ourselves.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "World news", "Politics", "Nato", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "France and Britain \u2013 a new special relationship | Jean-Pierre Chev\u00e8nement"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Champagne might be prohibitively expensive to drink, but it's a great place to visit, with all the major producers used to hosting tours round their cellars. In Epernay, stroll along the recently revamped Avenue de Champagne (termed \"the world's most drinkable address\" by Winston Churchill) and gawp at the 19th-century mansions belonging to the likes of Mo\u00ebt & Chandon (+33 3 2651 2020, moet.com), Mercier, Pol Roger, De Castellane, Perrier-Jou\u00ebt and Boizel. For \u20ac15 you get a tour of Mo\u00ebt's vast, 27km-long cellars and a glass of Mo\u00ebt Brut Imperial.The Rh\u00f4ne Valley is rich in wine, being home to the likes of C\u00f4te-R\u00f4tie and Hermitage in the north and Gigondas and Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape in the south. Do some research on websites such as yapp.co.uk and provencefoodandwine.com beforehand. In the southern Rh\u00f4ne, visit Domaine de Beaurenard in Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape (+33 4 9083 7179, beaurenard.fr) for a fascinating (and free) no-appointment-necessary tasting in their ancient cellars; and in the northern Rh\u00f4ne visit Maison Chapoutier (+33 4 7508 9261, chapoutier.com) in Tain l'Hermitage for the same. And, if you can wait until January next year, head to Ampuis for the four-day-long Foire d'Ampuis (+33 4 7456 1820), where for \u20ac8 you get a free glass and a chance to meet 60 Rh\u00f4ne producers.Travellers to the city of Bordeaux can find the price of even the most basic glass of wine alarming, so beware. The best place in town to get a decent, well-priced drink is Le Bar \u00e0 Vin (3 cours du 30 Juillet, +33 5 5600 4347, baravin.bordeaux.com). A light, spacious wine bar attached to l'Ecole du Vin (+33 5 5600 2285, vins-bordeaux.fr), it could hardly be more central, being a few hundred yards from the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre. It is also full of information about tours through the region as well as wine courses in l'Ecole itself. Heavily subsidised by the CIVB (the Bordeaux producers' association), it has a wide-ranging selection of local wines by the glass at absurdly accessible prices.There is no shortage of places to stay in and around Bordeaux but, again, these can be pricey. Among the best value are the H\u00f4tel de S\u00e8ze and its sister, the H\u00f4tel Royal M\u00e9doc (rue de S\u00e8ze, +33 5 5681 7242, hotelsezemedoc.free.fr). They are right in the heart of the city and are both much favoured by the English wine trade. They're simple and basic but, with rooms starting from \u20ac60 for a double, they're great value. For something a bit more wacky and out-of-town, try the wonderful treehouses (+33 5 5646 2948, naturacabana.fr) in the grounds of the Ch\u00e2teau de Malleret, 15km from Bordeaux. Prices start from \u20ac145 for three in a cabin.Saumur in the heart of the Loire Valley and its vineyards is within easy distance of the Channel ports. If your budget allows, book into the handsome Hotel Anne d'Anjou (+33 2 4167 3030, hotel-anneanjou.com), where rooms start from \u20ac105 per night. If budget doesn't allow, head for the Ile d'Offard in the middle of the river and the Hostel rue de Verden or its neighbouring campsite, Camping de l'Ile d'Offard (\u20ac16 for a two-person pitch, +33 2 4140 3000, cvtloisirs.com). Enjoy the superb local sparkling wines and honeyed chenin blancs and take a tour (and sample the excellent absinthe) at the tiny Combier distillery (48 rue Beaurepaire, +33 2 41 40 23 00, combier.fr).Alsace is a perfect place for pottering about with its Route de Vin (alsace-route-des-vins.com) easily negotiated by bicycle, so long as you're prepared for the occasional steep hill (you're in the foothills of the Vosges here). The region's medieval towns and villages such as Colmar, Obernai, Ribeauvill\u00e9 and Turckheim are absurdly picturesque with cobbled streets and half-timbered houses. Nearly all producers have free tastings for the public, with no obligation to buy. Park your bike at the foot of the main street in Riquewihr and wander up to the clock tower, taking in the various wine shops en route, perhaps stopping for a plate of choucroute \u00e0 l'Alsacienne. Hugel et Fils (3 rue de la Premi\u00e8re Arm\u00e9e, +33 3 8947 9215, hugel.com) is the best place to start.Gascony is a blessed spot, whose inhabitants, despite enjoying a diet rich in foie gras and confit de canard, boast lower levels of heart disease than anyone else in France and live an average five years longer. They put this down to their wines. Stay at British-owned Domaine de Lauroux (+33 5 6208 5676, lauroux.com), where a g\u00eete for six starts at \u20ac600 per week, and explore the region. Visit Bastide d'Armagnac (labastide-darmagnac.net) with its enchanting square colonnaded central place; Notre-Dame des Cyclistes (notredamedescyclistes.net), a tiny 11th-century chapel where Tour de France competitors come to pray; the exquisite hamlet of Larressingle (and taste its equally exquisite armagnac \u2013 tinyurl.com/6z7yo22); the food market of Eauze and buy foie gras, croustade and armagnac direct from artisan producers. (tourisme-gers.com).Go hiking on Les Calanques, the limestone cliffs with jaw-dropping views that run along the Mediterranean coast between Marseille and Cassis. Scramble down to an isolated cove for a gentle swim and a languorous picnic. Be sure to pack some bottles of Provence's hidden vinous gems in your basket, such as Cassis, Bandol, Palette and Bellet. Cassis itself is a delight, a bustling fishing port with dozens of restaurants, each attempting to outdo the other with their pistou soup and bouillabaisse. Enjoy them with Cassis wine (of which there are only 14 producers), a heady blend of marsanne, clairette and ugni blanc, and not to be confused with the blackcurrant cr\u00e8me de cassis.Corsica might seem a bit off-piste but the wines are increasingly fine (and remain excellent value) and the island itself is a bewitching spot with snow-capped mountains, rugged granite hills, flower-strewn meadows and pristine sandy beaches. Head for the hills around Sart\u00e8ne and seek out the delicate local ros\u00e9s. Or stop at roadside taverns to scoff wild boar salami and figatellu (liver sausage made from the local Corsican black pig), washed down with aromatic, herb-tinged reds made from the strange-sounding nielluccio and sciaccarellu grapes. And if you make it to Cap Corse in the far north, seek out the luscious, lip-smacking dessert muscats, long thought to be the island's crowning glory. Producers to look out for include Domaine Saparale (saparale.com), Domaine Torraccia and Domaine Pieretti (vinpieretti.com).Being in northern France, Montreuil-sur-Mer isn't in wine country at all. It is, though, home to the French outpost of the Wine Society (01438 741177, winesociety.com) and, as such, well worth a visit. Close to both Calais and Boulogne, it is easily accessible from the UK and ideal for a day trip. You can save a minimum \u00a318 a case by buying from here rather than the Wine Society's shop in Stevenage, and with over 200 wines to choose from there's no shortage of choice. A return on Eurotunnel (08443 353535, eurotunnel.com), plus petrol, plus lunch for two, comes to around \u00a390; the saving on buying five cases of wine is \u00a390. Enjoy a day for free in France!", "tags": ["France holidays", "Wine", "Food and drink", "Bordeaux holidays", "Corsica holidays", "Travel", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Budget wine trips in France"},{"date": "2011-01-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"We don't have a stronger friend and stronger ally than Nicolas Sarkozy, and the French people\" Barack Obama said today. Uh oh. No sooner had he done so than Washington-based British analyst Nile Gardiner rushed to his keyboard to blog for the Daily Telegraph: \"Quite what the French have done to merit this kind of high praise from the US president is difficult to fathom, and if the White House means what it says this represents an extraordinary sea change in US foreign policy.\" Touchy, aren't we?He goes on, outraged: \"To suggest that Paris and not London is Washington's strongest partner is simply ludicrous.\" And finishes, seemingly frothing at the mouth: \"No US president in modern times has described France as America's closest ally, and such a remark is not only factually wrong but also insulting to Britain, not least coming just a few years after the French famously knifed Washington in the back over the war in Iraq.\" Can somebody offer Mr Gardiner an aspirin?Nile, you shouldn't feel so bad, Obama was just being polite. As all presidents hosting foreign heads of state know, you simply cannot escape saying things like: \"Hamid Karzai is a great friend of the United States\" as George W Bush declared many times, or \"Colonel Gaddafi is a great friend of France\" as Sarkozy said when he invited the Libyan dictator to set up his tent with his all-female entourage in the gardens of the Elys\u00e9es in November 2007.Having said that, if you look at it historically, I'm sorry to say that it is factually and emotionally right for the American president to describe France as the US's greatest ally. 3 September 1783, anyone? Lord Cornwallis? General Rochambeau? French may have narrowly missed out on being chosen as the language of the United States, but without France, there'd be no American independence.As \"for knifing Washington in the back over the war in Iraq\", France was only doing the courageous act of warning a dear old friend that they were terribly wrong. Other allies thought no better but to acquiesce.In general, France and the French have a more straightforward relationship to America than their neighbours across the Channel. The idea is that love doesn't have to be servile. A fair amount of criticism is even expected and welcome, it is the sign of an equal and healthy relationship. If the leftist intelligentsia felt it needed to deride America just after the second world war, a majority of the French people embraced American culture.Many American artists and film directors, from Nicholas Ray to the Coen brothers, owe a large part of their world reputation to French film critics. To be a good friend, one has to be independent. That was always the point of view of French presidents from de Gaulle to Chirac. Nicolas Sarkozy is a unique figure in French politics, one who resorts to obsequiousness rather than healthy esprit critique. The truth is that Nicolas Sarkozy wishes he was American. But that's another story...", "tags": ["US news", "France", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France, America's special friend | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is called the Emerald coast and bears its name with panache. From Cancale, world capital for oysters, to St Briac, where Renoir loved daydreaming, this stretch of granite rocks and gold sand shelters resorts with everything discerning visitors on a budget could dream of. Among them is Dinard, between St Malo and St Lunaire. There, pitch your tent at the Camping du Port Blanc (rue du Sergent Boulanger, +33 2 9946 1074, camping-port-blanc.com) on the beach, from \u20ac13pp a night, or rent a studio at the charming La Pens\u00e9e in St Lunaire (la-pensee.pagesperso-orange.fr) from \u20ac195 for a week.Among the many things to do in and around Dinard: swim, sail, walk, eat and hunt for antiques. In Dinard and St Lunaire, Point Passion Plage (digue de L'Ecluse, Dinard, +33 2 9988 1520, pointplage.fr) provides kayak, catamaran and windsurf lessons and rentals. You can also purchase a \u20ac92 pass that will give you access to all their activities.Your stay on the Emerald coast wouldn't be complete without a taste of the region's best galettes, such as those of Cr\u00eaperie du Roy (9 boulevard F\u00e9art, Dinard, +33 2 9946 1057). Go for the galette soubise (onions cooked in muscadet) and cr\u00eape pomme maison flamb\u00e9e au calvados \u2013 your palate (and wallet) will be forever grateful.If you want to treat yourself, then veer towards the promenade au Clair de Lune. At the end stands La Gonelle (+33 2 9916 4047, lagonelle.com), a seafood and fish restaurant open from 15 April to 30 September. You can choose your fish from the aquarium; the chef will present it to you on a platter as it breathes its last.There's no need for a car in Dinard. Public transport, such as the bus linking St Briac to St Malo (illenoo-services.fr), or the vedette (boat) taking you to St Malo every half-hour (vedettes-saint-malo.com), are reliable and cheap. You can also rent a bike for the day near Dinard's market (8 rue St Enogat, +33 2 9946 2725, breizhcycles.com) and cycle to the medieval city of Dinan (dinan-tourisme.com). You'll pedal through sunflower fields and old villages and hug the River Rance for a few miles. Dinard will leave you with wonderful and enduring souvenirs.French-born Agn\u00e8s Poirier is a political commentator and film critic based in ParisIn order to do the Marcel Proust tour of Normandy properly, you should ideally be driven by a bisexual chauffeur you're lusting after. If you can't manage that, then hire a convertible two-seater and get your significant other to wear goggles, kinky rubber coat and close-fitting aviator's hat while you shout relevant passages from A la Recherche du Temps Perdu from the passenger seat.Drive first to the Grand H\u00f4tel Cabourg (les jardins du Casino, +33 2 3191 0179, accorhotels.com) on the lovely C\u00f4te Fleurie (Flower Coast). Proust checked into his fourth floor suite here feverish and exhausted in the summer 1907. He wrote: \"\u2026 menaced by the enemies thronging around me, penetrated to the very bones by fever, I was alone and wanted to die\". When I stayed in the Marcel Proust suite with my beloved, by contrast, I couldn't have been happier. I flung open the French windows on to the Promenade de Marcel Proust and rang for the best room service I've ever had \u2013 champagne with confite de daurade aux hu\u00eetres.You could splash out and do the same \u2013 a double room costs from \u20ac165. Or stay at nearby La Raspeli\u00e8re (from \u20ac80 for a double, chambres-hotes-cabourg.fr), and then dine at Le Balbec restaurant below the Grand H\u00f4tel, with its marvellous seasonal seafood menu (three courses from \u20ac56). First, though, have a Proust cocktail (gin, cointreau, orange and cura\u00e7ao bleu) in the Belle Epoque bar while listening to Scott Joplin on the computerised pianola.Next morning follow Proust and the love of his life, chauffeur Albert Agostinelli, on their tour of Norman architecture. They went to Bayeux, not to see the tapestry, but to pay homage to oriental figures in the romanesque part of Bayeux cathedral. They didn't, as far as I can find out, have lunch in Bayeux's restaurants (try La Rapi\u00e8re, off rue St Jean, +33 2 3121 0545, larapiere.net) offering Norman-style cooking. But you should.Rejoin Proust's tour by visiting the abbeys of Jumi\u00e8ges, Saint-Wandrille and Saint-Georges de Bouscheville, perhaps taking tea at the Ch\u00e2teau de Balleroy (chateau-balleroy.com), where Proust savoured Boucher's tapestries.Check into another grand hotel \u2013 the Grand H\u00f4tel de l'Esp\u00e9rance at Lisieux (from \u20ac69 a night, lisieux-hotel.com) and after dinner, get your chauffeur to drive you to the cathedral of St Pierre. It was here that in 1907 Proust studied the facade's foliated tracery, illuminated by Agostinelli's headlamps.The following morning drive towards Illiers, where adolescent Marcel stayed. On the way, you'd be idiotic not to visit Chartres cathedral (chartres-tourisme.com). Illiers itself is a scruffy backwater village transformed into Combray in the novel. Today the house where Proust's Tante L\u00e9onie lived is a little museum (marcelproust.pagesperso-orange.fr). From Illiers, you could drive to Monet's garden at Giverny (\u20ac8, giverny.org/gardens). Proust repeatedly planned to go, but never made it. A shame: given his love of botany and his hypersensitive openness to beauty, he would have adored it.Stuart Jeffries is a feature writer and ex-Paris correspondent for the GuardianThe Loire Valley has to be France's most fran\u00e7ais region. Its people speak the purest French, and it's also at the heart of the country's history \u2013 a fascinating base for a week's touring.The most famous chateau, and justifiably so, is Chenonceau (chenonceau.com) in Indre-et-Loire \u2013 it straddles a lake on a series of arches, and was a gift from King Henri II to his lover Diane de Poitiers, a woman so sexy that the Queen, Catherine de Medici, used to spy on the couple's lovemaking to learn a few tricks. Chenonceau is to chateaux what Monica Bellucci is to cinema. Le Relais de Chenonceaux (+33 2 4723 9811, chenonceaux.com), close to the chateau, has double rooms from \u20ac52, half-board from \u20ac92.To the south-west, across vineyard-covered countryside stands the hilltop Ch\u00e2teau de Chinon (visit-loire.com/cities-loire/chinon). You can stand in the very room where Joan of Arc performed a \"miracle\" in 1429. To test her divine inspiration, Prince Charles (no, not that one) hid in disguise among his courtiers. Unerringly, Joan picked him out. Miraculous, until you realise that the knock-kneed, squinty-eyed prince was one of the most recognisable men in France.A great-value day out is a rent-a-bike ride along the Loire riverbanks from the medieval Ch\u00e2teau de Blois (chateaudeblois.fr): Tra\u00eeneurs de Loire (traineursdeloire.com) rent out bikes for \u20ac13 a day from several locations along the river.In the evenings, the region is the perfect place for a gourmet feast. In the old centre of Saumur, Auberge Saint-Pierre (6 place Saint-Pierre, auberge-saintpierre.com) has traditional regional cuisine at reasonable prices, such as boeuf bourguignon for \u20ac11.50.And if I taste a wine I like at dinner, I ask the restaurateur for the grower's address, then drop by next day to stock up at wholesale prices. Chinon blanc sec, for example, is a golden drink that inspires descriptions like \"harmonious\", \"fruity\" and \"generous with its charms\" \u2013 very much like this part of France itself.Stephen Clarke, author of A Year in the Merde (Black Swan, \u00a37.99). His new book, Paris Revealed, is out on 31 MarchThe first time I travelled down to France's south-west corner, it was to investigate the region's separatist movement, Iparetarrak (IK), a more amateurish and considerably less violent version of Eta. For many years, IK was secretly applauded by those Parisians lucky enough to own houses along that pristine stretch of Atlantic coastline. Twenty years on, the revolutionaries that fed IK have retired and development along the coastline has mushroomed. New-builds have sprung up on the hills, and traffic jams along the coast's route nationale are the norm.There is one place, however, that has not changed. Gu\u00e9thary is a small fishing village nestled between the chichi seaside towns of Biarritz and Saint Jean-de-Luz. It is also one of Europe's more confidential surf spots and so it has been contaminated or preserved, depending on your point of view, by a certain alternative vibe that seems to co-exist quite nicely with the well-heeled Parisian families who have been holidaying there since the 60s.The village is sliced in two by the route nationale, so you'll want to make sure you're staying on the right side of it. Head straight to the Hotel Madrid (+33 5 5926 5212, lemadrid.com) in the heart of the village. Here the sound of the ocean rubs out the distant rumble of traffic. Unaltered since the turn of the last century when Paul Klee stayed here and sat with Kandinsky on its windswept terrace overlooking the sea, Le Madrid is still a simple, family hotel with five pretty rooms, from \u20ac59 a night, and a good restaurant.Gu\u00e9thary is one of those magical places to which people return faithfully all their lives. My own children would play for hours on its vast fronton (court), theoretically for pelota but more often for impromptu football, or rollerskating, or teenage flirting or, at night, dances and fireworks or Basque games (shows of strength).In the morning, you might walk down to one of Gu\u00e9thary's three beaches: la Plage du Centre to mess around in the rockpools and eat chipirones (tiny squid) or gambas a la plancha (grilled shrimp) at Kostaldea, a little place right on the beach. Or there are the wilder beaches of Les Alcyons or Cenitz, where you can lie on the white sand or body-surf in the big waves. Later, while the children play outside you can be in the Bar Basque opposite the Madrid, drinking sangria and watching the sunset.Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber, \u00a37.99)With a unique Franco-German character, Alsace offers stunning mountainous scenery, gorgeous villages, fascinating museums and wonderful wines. My ideal itinerary around the region kicks off high up in the Vosges mountains. The wonderful little eco-hotel Villa Rosa (rue Thierry Schoerem, +33 3 8949 8119, villarosa.fr) in Trois-Epis, near the town of Colmar, is the perfect place to relax. It has eight comfortable rooms costing from \u20ac63 per night, and its owner, Anne-Rose, creates wonderful meals with the vegetables, herbs and flowers from her garden (\u20ac26 for three courses).After winding down for a day or two next to the solar-heated pool or taking walks from the hotel, I'll jump in the hire car for some thrilling drives through the mountains. The hairpin bends aren't for the faint-hearted, and the roads' steep hills are a popular challenge for cyclists. My destination is the nearby village of Turckheim. Like my other favourite villages, Eguisheim and Riquewihr, Turckheim has wonderful narrow streets rambling through colourful timber-framed houses with window boxes in full bloom. My stroll will also have me sniffing out one of Turckheim's wineries where I'll sample the local riesling and gew\u00fcrztraminer.Not far from Turckheim is the imposing Ch\u00e2teau du Haut-Koenigsbourg (haut-koenigsbourg.fr). Sitting high over the vineyard-lined valley, the castle dates from the 12th century and offers incredible views across to the Black Forest in Germany. After a poke around its battlements, I'll carry on to Colmar, a gorgeous little town in the heart of Alsace. Lunch is at the characterful restaurant Maison Rouge (9, rue des Ecoles, Colmar, +33 3 8923 5322), where I'll tuck into a salad of the local Munster cheese, or a delicious tarte flamb\u00e9e, before walking it off along the canal in the area known as Petite Venise (Little Venice).Carolyn Boyd is editor of France magazine (francemag.com) Beneath Tiepolo skies, it's a gentle amble through shimmering cognac vines down to the Charente river for a dip in the calm waters. Such is the idyllic nature of summer days in the Charente, second-sunniest corner of France, after the Riviera.The riverside town of Cognac has for four centuries been the home of cognac-making, now a booming export trade, not least among the American rapper fraternity where it's known as \"yak\". In the courtyard restaurant of the quirkily decorated but comfortable Hotel Heritage (25, rue d'Angoul\u00eame, +33 5 4582 0126, hheritage.com, doubles \u20ac70) or in the smartly cosy Le Bistro de Claude (35 rue Grande, +33 5 4582 6032, bistro-de-claude.com) the spirit Victor Hugo dubbed \"the liquor of the gods\" is served in tulip glasses to stop aromas escaping.Most cognac houses \u2013 such as Hennessy, Martell and R\u00e9my Martin \u2013 offer visits and tastings. But Baron Otard (baronotard.com) has the advantage of being in the Ch\u00e2teau de Cognac so the tour takes in Renaissance halls designed by Leonardo da Vinci and plunges into a fungi-draped dungeon, the \"paradise cellar\", where cognacs from centuries past are stored.For sustenance of the soul, the nearby thousand-year-old Abbey of Bassac (+33 5 4581 9422, abbayebassac.com) has a tangible spirituality and visitors are welcome to stroll in the near-silent gardens. Within the same tiny village there's a choice of two good restaurants, L'Essille (rue de Conde, +33 5 4581 9413, hotel-restaurant-essille.com) and L'Auberge de Cond\u00e9 (, doubles \u20ac35, rue Rixendis Loriches, +33 5 4583 0967, auberge-de-conde.net).But for an insight into contemporary French culture, head to Angoul\u00eame, historic home of papermaking and capital of the comic book. On a ramble through the hilly Charente capital you'll spot some of the 20 or so giant-scale cartoon scenes painted on to the sides of buildings by top comic strip artists.Lennox Morrison is an author and journalist based in ParisThe prehistoric Lascaux caves, Bergerac, and Sarlat are the famous sites of the Dordogne region of Aquitaine, but in the bit I know well I've found many surprising treasures. Make a base in the pretty village of Sainte Alv\u00e8re, such as the sweet Roquebrune en P\u00e9rigord (+33 5 5361 2418, roquebrune-perigord.com, \u20ac75 for two), where you will be tempted to spend a week scoffing saucisson, truffles and foie gras from the weekly market (the rotisserie chicken van is amazing). Go dancing one night with local farmers, families and dreadlocked hippies at La Guinguette de Neufonds, a fun restaurant beside a lake (where you can swim) near Vergt, that has a cheap buffet with live music ranging from Gypsy jazz to local ska-punk.My top day trips are as follows. A wonderful chateau with an interesting backstory is Ch\u00e2teau des Milandes (milandes.com) in Castelnaud-la-Chapelle, once the home of Josephine Baker, the African American who became an exotic dancer in Paris in the 20s. She also spied for the French resistance, was a major player in the American civil rights movement and the Angelina Jolie of her day, adopting children from around the world. Look out for the gorgeous art deco bathrooms modelled on perfume bottles and her famous banana skirt. Another day drive to Limeuil, where the Dordogne and V\u00e9z\u00e8re rivers meet and you can go for a high-speed float in the strong currents, or kayak. Further away, on the coast, the incredible Dune du Pyla is Europe's biggest sand dune, and if you're in the area in May, the Bergerac jazz festival (jazzpourpre.com) is excellent.Gemma Bowes, acting travel editor of the GuardianProvence and the C\u00f4te d'Azur don't take kindly to budgets, but experiencing the region on the cheap is possible. I'd head to N\u00eemes (just over the border in Languedoc-Roussillon), preferably between 8-13 June for the F\u00e9ria (viva-la-feria.com), and either buy a ticket for the bullfighting at the Roman arena of Les Ar\u00e8nes (4 rue de la Violette, arenesdenimes.com) or settle for some gardiane, a bull casserole. I'd sleep at the excellent N\u00eemes youth hostel (\u20ac35 for a double, +33 4 6668 0320, hinimes.com).On to Arles and the fascinating Van Gogh walking tour (+33 4 9018 4120, arlestourisme.com) then, bellyful of bull finally digested \u2013 it won't go down without a fight \u2013 I'll have pizza at Chez N\u00e9n\u00e9 et B\u00e9b\u00e9 (12 impasses du Forum, +33 4 9093 4949, tinyurl.com/5sg57fg).I'd like to hit Avignon for its festival from 6-26 July (+33 4 9027 6650, festival- avignon.com) and to eat at Au Tout Petit (\u20ac25 for three courses, 4 rue d'Amphoux, +33 4 9082 3886, autoutpetit.fr), which serves good value, inventive dishes.Last stop, Aix-en-Provence, and I'd stretch the budget to stay at Le Manoir (\u20ac67 for a double room, 8 rue d'Entrecasteaux, +33 4 4226 2720, hotelmanoir.com), set in an historic house with a beautiful courtyard and 14th-century cloister.Neil McQuillian is a travel writer for Rough GuidesIt is easy to find the Languedoc. Just follow the Rh\u00f4ne river, and when you hit the southern French coast, instead of turning left to head to St Tropez or Provence, head right towards Spain. The region stretches over 16,000 square miles.Your first major stop is B\u00e9ziers, a city that seems almost more Spanish than French. It was a Cathar stronghold in medieval times and the site of a horrendous massacre in 1209 when crusaders besieged the city. The worst bloodshed took place in the cathedral, which you should visit, if only for the views across the city and the Orb. Then you have two choices for lunch; either the best wine-bar in the region, Le Chameau Ivre (15 place Jean Jaur\u00e8s, +33 4 6780 2020, tinyurl.com/5s93d5t), or a charming restaurant called Le Petit Monmartre (+33 4 6728 5654, lepetitmontmartre.net) in the elegant Place de la Madeleine. Stay at the H\u00f4tel des Po\u00e8tes, overlooking the park (80 all\u00e9es Paul Riquet, +33 4 67 76 38 66, hoteldespoetes.net).Next stop is the Etang de Bages, just outside Narbonne. You can walk along the wooden walkways over the water, or simply along the coastal paths, admiring the nature and the pink flamingoes. If you're hungry there is no nicer place to eat than the restaurant Le Portanel (pas de Portanel, +33 4 6842 8166, leportanel.fr).From there it is a short drive to Spain, but please don't miss Collioure (collioure.com), just before the border, a favourite haunt of the fauvist artists and famous for its anchovies.Helena Frith Powell is the author of Love in a Warm Climate (Gibson Square, \u00a38.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Dordogne holidays", "Provence holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Pyrenees holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Classic France: the insiders' guide"},{"date": "2011-03-21T08:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "To understand what literary life in France is like, imagine a pond. A pond that's getting smaller and smaller, with just as many fish in it, so that the water is getting more and more crowded. You can guess what happens: each one has less and less space to evolve, to find food, and even to develop the energy required to discuss ideas. Sales of books continue to be weak in 2011, after a particularly flat year for publishers and bookshops. Apart from the usual juggernauts, such as titles from the bestselling authors Mark L\u00e9vy and Am\u00e9lie Nothomb, and more sporadic successes such as the latest novel from Michel Houellebecq (winner of the Prix Goncourt in November last year), most novels and essays struggle to make any money.Yet the landscape certainly doesn't lack variety: for the past 30 years the French have benefited from a law setting a single book price, which has\u00a0made it possible to preserve diversity on the publishing scene. Rather than being flattened by concentration, many small publishers still do remarkable work, alongside the larger houses. As a result, a multiplicity of tastes can happily continue to be met, with tiny publishing houses often taking on translation projects or\u00a0the publication of complete works. In contrast to the early 90s, when lots of small publishers were going bankrupt, publishing today is no longer a\u00a0graveyard.Some smaller enterprises have been taken over by larger ones, but without necessarily losing their identity. So M\u00e9taili\u00e9 and L'Olivier were bought up by Le Seuil, while POL, Verticales and Jo\u00eblle Losfeld were bought by Gallimard. At a time when publishing companies, as well as the press, are losing their independence all over the world, Gallimard is celebrating its centenary as an independent company, and is in a state of health that would make many younger houses green with envy. The fact remains that the market is tightening relentlessly. As elsewhere, one can witness an increasing polarisation in sales, with the gap widening between titles that \"take off\", often the most mainstream ones, and all the others, notably midlist titles, whose sales have been completely squashed.This polarisation is reflected in the way the press talks about books. In newspapers the space devoted to literature is now relatively stable after a dramatic decline over the past 10 years. As a result, critics struggle to cover the full range of books produced, caught between the need to\u00a0talk about what everyone else is talking about, the\u00a0need to\u00a0explore types of literature that almost no one is talking about and the wish to get themselves talked about by\u00a0taking up increasingly clear-cut positions.In these circumstances, what happens to the discussion of ideas? It\u00a0is still alive with regard to the big questions that run through society (political, religious, social, historical, and so on). According to the philosopher and novelist Bernard-Henri L\u00e9vy,\u00a0the French situation is unusual in that, instead of being permanently fixed, \"intellectual groups re-form around each issue like iron filings around a magnet\", a situation which has become more marked in the last 20 years. In January 2011 the \"affaire C\u00e9line\" shook the cultural world. The\u00a0writer Louis-Ferdinand C\u00e9line, who wrote some truly great books and also some violently anti-semitic tracts, was included in the calendar of national commemorations, to mark\u00a0the 50th anniversary of his death. His presence in this official brochure provoked such a furore that the minister of culture eventually backed down and removed C\u00e9line.In the purely literary domain, on the other hand, debate is less lively. The controversies that arose when autobiographical fiction, or \"autofiction\", began to establish itself, thanks to writers such as Serge Doubrovsky (who invented the term), then Christine Angot and Camille Laurens, have more or less subsided. The publication, in January this year, of Angot's latest novel, Les petits (Flammarion), caused hardly any debate, as if the critics had got used to this type of writing and to the dangers it can bring.Indeed, \"autofiction\", which introduces a character sharing the same name as the author, in situations which are more or less fictitious, has an almost incestuous relationship with the real world. As a result, this bold genre, which has given French literature some of its most interesting books in the last few years, is not neutral \u2013 and this is undoubtedly one\u00a0of its strengths. However, autofiction no longer sparks the same passions as it did 10 years ago. In the case of Angot's latest, which has not had the anticipated impact on readers, it has taken a lawsuit to rouse the literary world from its torpor: one brought by the ex-girlfriend of the man Angot shares her life with, and from whom the writer drew inspiration in her book.Another lawsuit has drawn attention to a book by the prominent author R\u00e9gis Jauffret a year after its publication: in S\u00e9v\u00e8re, published by Seuil in January 2010, Jauffret was clearly inspired by the Stern affair (the\u00a0assassination of a rich banker by his mistress, in the course of sado-masochistic games), without ever naming the real protagonists. The novel was received reasonably well by critics and had some moderate success in bookshops. But several months later, when faced with the prospect of a film adaptation, Edouard Stern's family become concerned and\u00a0attacked the author. The latter found immediate support from about 20 writers and intellectuals who signed a petition on his behalf, launched at the instigation of the magazine La R\u00e8gle du jeu.The new generation of writers seems not to worry unduly about these questions. Writers such as Yannick Haenel, Maylis de K\u00e9rangal and Delphine Coulin are making a name for themselves without belonging to any school: reworking plots when it suits them, using fiction or autofiction in their own ways, and inventing new forms when they can. And that's all to the good.1 Indignez vous! (Cry out!) by St\u00e9phane Hessel (former diplomat's plea for outrage from French people at the state of their nation)2 La carte et le territoire by Michel Houellebecq (Goncourt winner)3 Les \u00e9cureuils de Central Park sont tristes le lundi by Katherine Pancol (New York-based novel)4 M\u00e9tronome: L'histoire de France au rythme du m\u00e9tro parisien by Lorant Deutsch (history)5 La m\u00e9thode Dukan illustr\u00e9e by Pierre Dukan (illustrated diet plan)Total 2010 book sales 464.5m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture", "Fiction"], "title": "What they're reading in France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T06:30:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "In the past 60 years, two major choices have shaped French foreign policy while pulling France and the UK apart: the European project begun after the second world war and built in accordance with Jean Monnet's conception,; and national independence, as sought by Charles de Gaulle after his return to power in 1958. These two paths were contradictory, the first only comprehensible because France, having twice nearly perished during the first part of the 20th century, had such profound doubts about itself that it chose to make Europe a substitute for the nation. The UK, however, could not come to terms with having to fade within a \"supranational\" Europe.This view was shared by De Gaulle: the general did not believe in supranationality, but he did want to build a \"Europe of nations\". Beyond this, he defined his objective as the emergence of a \"European Europe\" \u2013 agent of its own destiny. This was a bitter pill to swallow for the UK, which was attached to its special relationship with the US.Today, the crisis of the euro reflects the impasse reached by supranational Europe. The French project of burying German reunification within a federal Europe \u2013 the idea behind the Maastricht treaty \u2013 ended long ago. And curiously, it is this moment which President Sarkozy has chosen for France to rejoin Nato, under the bizarre pretext of facilitating the emergence of \"European defence\".French diplomacy thus has a double hangover. Germany has dragged Europe, or in any case the eurozone, into a bidding war of economic rigour leading to a historical dead end. France does not dare to challenge Angela Merkel's policy, because it is reluctant to question the rules of the game accepted by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand when they were set out, back when he thought he could modify them when the right moment presented itself. They have now proven to be inadequate and impossible to change in substance: thanks to the rules imposed by Maastricht, the European central bank does not believe it has the authority to intervene in debt markets in order to smash speculation and save the euro. The currency is doomed \u2013 it is smothering every economy in Europe, except Germany's. Floating between the dollar and the Chinese yuan, we are, in effect, caught in the jaws of the G2, or \"Chinamerica\".This is all the more worrying because, in addition, French diplomacy has recently followed in the wake of US diplomacy. But the US is less and less concerned about Europe; it is increasingly turned towards the Pacific and China. While French diplomacy has lost its bearings, it could find them anew if it returned to De Gaulle's Europe of nations, whose vocation is to exist between the US and China. Is this the path laid out by the Anglo-French agreements of November 2010? It is too early to say, however desirable the prospect may be. Relations with Barack Obama are no longer a bone of contention between the two countries. The UK is seeking to influence the US by remaining close to it, France is pursuing the same objective by opposite means: independence, but within an alliance. And as for Nato? Yes, but only on the condition that we do not compromise our influence in Arab countries.In recent weeks, the US has only allowed France and the UK a hand in Libya, nothing more. Our two long-lived nations must, together, represent the aims of the US leadership while also taking care to work within a frame of legality in an international context, keeping the protection of civilians in mind. We must respect the democratic will currently expressed by the Arab world, and gather a maximum number of Arab, African and developing countries around a strategy which should only seek to establish the conditions of self-determination for the Libyan people. This is how we will, together, best prepare the future of a great democratic Europe of the nations \u2013 one stretching from the Mediterranean to Russia.The UK has to consider its future with Europe. Our two nations could help set Europe back on her feet. We could do Europe this service at the same time as we do it for ourselves.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "World news", "Politics", "Nato", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "France and Britain \u2013 a new special relationship | Jean-Pierre Chev\u00e8nement"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Auvergne is located smack in the centre of France, with a stunning national park that features extinct volcanoes, deep glacial lakes and old-fashioned spa towns. In the sleepy rural village of Muret, you can discover a homely B&B like the Maison de Muret \u2013 it's just \u20ac54 a night for a double, and the owners put on an incredible feast at night, beginning with a glass of Gentiane (a local aperitif of mountain herbs), hearty dishes like homemade sausages with truffade (creamy potatoes), Cantal cheese fresh from the neighbouring farm, and a tarte aux myrtilles \u2013 all for a grand total of \u20ac17 a head, wine and coffee included.\u2022 Maison de Muret, Muret, Thi\u00e9zac, +33\u00a04 7147 5123, maisondemuret.comAlthough the seafood and fish are out of this world in Brittany, restaurants don't tend to be cheap in the picture-postcard fishing villages. But this is also the world's capital of cr\u00eapes, and for a genuine locals' address check out the Cr\u00eaperie Amzer Zo in the tiny port of Kerity. Amzer 'zo is Breton for \"no hurry\", and its sunny terrace is perfect for a lazy lunch of delicious buckwheat cr\u00eapes stuffed with everything from tasty andouille sausage to ham and eggs. Finish off with a cr\u00eape au chocolat, forget the wine and order a bowl of cider, and the bill still won't come to much more than \u20ac10.\u2022 Cr\u00eaperie Amzer Zo, 31 quai Charles de\u00a0Gaulle, Kerity, Penmarc'h, +33 2 9858 8545Whether it is for gourmet food or fine wines, there are few regions in France that can compare with Burgundy. Saulieu has a strong claim to be the gastronomic capital of the region, and if you don't want to splash out at the three-star Michelin Relais Bernard Loiseau, then check in almost next door at the surprising Borne Imperiale. A comfy double room looking out over beautifully landscaped gardens costs \u20ac45-60, and the genial chef, Jean Berteau, prepares a tempting three-course terroir menu of escargots \u00e0 la bourguignonne, a succulent jambon a l'os, slowly braised with wild mushrooms, and a sinful mousse au chocolat, priced at \u20ac24.50.\u2022 Relais Bernard Loiseau, 2 rue d'Argentine, Saulieu, +33 3 8090 5353, bernard-loiseau.com; Borne Imperiale, 6 rue d'Argentine, +33 3 8064 1976, borne-imperiale.comOyster-lovers are spoilt for choice when travelling around the French coast, but for the perfect mix of stunning natural landscapes and the finest sp\u00e9ciales and fines de claire oysters, it is difficult to beat the Bassin d'Arcachon. Bernard Delis, known locally as Monsieur des Huitres, opens up his cabane on the jetty of Port de Larros each summer, and for just \u20ac8 he shucks a dozen of his oysters, while a chilled bottle of wine from the nearby Entre-deux-Mers vineyards will set you back another \u20ac7. Stay at a B&B in the village, such as Clos Saint-Michel, which offers doubles at \u20ac55.\u2022 Bernard Delis, Port de Larros, Cabane 81, +33 6 1460 5493, etablissement-b-delis.com; Clos Saint-Michel, 54 rue Edmond Daubric, Gujan Mestras, +33 5\u00a05666 4329, clossaintmichel.frThe Sud-Ouest is all about serious eating, from confit de canard, a hearty cassoulet or foie gras to the delicious Basque speciality piquillos \u2013 red peppers stuffed with stockfish, a type of dried fish. Alain Dutournier is acclaimed as an ambassador of this region's cuisine, with a two-star Michelin dining room and two other restaurants in Paris. He recommends a visit to Pouillon, just outside the town of Dax, to L'Auberge du Pas de Vent, where acclaimed young chef Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Dubern sticks to traditions with a \u20ac22.50 Menu Gascon, which features beef terrine, slowly roasted duck and a \"nose-to-tail\" pork dish for adventurous diners.\u2022 L'Auberge du Pas de Vent, 281 avenue Pas de Vent, Pouillon, +33 5 5898 3465, auberge-dupasdevent.comGuy Martin is the celebrated chef of the legendary Parisian restaurant Le Grand Vefour, and his cooking always reflects his Alpine roots. What few people know is that he is also partner in a down-to-earth diner, Le Trianon, hidden away in the ski resort and spa town of Allevard, where prices range at lunch from just \u20ac9 for a dish of the day to \u20ac15 for a three-course set meal. Although the menu features classic Savoyard fondue and raclette, Martin's influence means there are also gourmet options like a tempting duck shepherd's pie with pumpkin and the local Beaufort cheese.\u2022 Le Trianon, avenue des Bains, Parc des Thermes, Allevard, +33 4 7671 9617, letrianon-allevard.frAlsace surprises the visitor, not just with the strange Germanic dialect and\u00a0its colourful half-timbered gingerbread houses clustered in tiny villages surrounded by rolling vine-clad\u00a0hills, but also with some of the country's finest cuisine. Alsatian foie gras rivals that of the Dordogne, while the locals prefer their pungent Munster\u00a0cheese sprinkled with cumin seeds to camembert or brie. Walk into the homely winstub (bistro) L'Agneau d'Or in Obernai and you're spoilt for choice between a steaming plate of choucroute\u00a0topped with sausages, chops, bacon and black pudding, for\u00a0\u20ac17, or a three-course regional menu\u00a0at \u20ac24.\u2022 L'Agneau d'Or, 99 rue du General Gouraud, Obernai, +33 3 8895 2822Is it possible to find anywhere reasonably priced to eat on the ritzy Riviera? Well, steer clear of the celeb haunts of St Tropez, Cannes and Juan-les-Pins and there are some surprising discoveries hidden away along the Mediterranean coastline. Le Rayol Canadel is worth a detour just for its breathtaking tropical gardens. Le Maurin des Maures, nearby, is a local institution, with a sunny terrace overlooking the sea and a \u20ac13.50 three-course menu offering soupe de poisson, delicious grilled sardines and profiteroles smothered with hot chocolate sauce. To stay the night in the town, check out Villa Louise, which has doubles from \u20ac75.\u2022 Le Maurin des Maures, avenue du Touring Club, Le Rayol Canadel, +33 4 9405 6011, maurin-des-maures.com; Villa Louise, 21 corniche de la Louve, +33 4 9405 5284, tinyurl.com/6gb5tdcThe old-fashioned village bistrot is still alive and well across Provence, perfect for a Pastis at dusk when the locals are playing p\u00e9tanque, and ideal for sampling distinctive Proven\u00e7al cuisine without paying a fortune. In picturesque Opp\u00e8de, the Caf\u00e9 des Poulivets has a plat du jour at just \u20ac9 \u2013 try to come on Friday when a wonderful garlicky a\u00efoli is served, following the recipe of the owner's grandmother. This cafe is just one of an excellent selection of cheap and cheerful restaurants across Provence that feature on bistrotdepays.com, which has many addresses to track down and is more fun than the stuffy Michelin Guide.\u2022 Caf\u00e9 des Poulivets, Opp\u00e8de, +33 4 9005 8831, cafedespoulivets.com", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Brittany holidays", "Provence holidays"], "title": "Budget bourguignon: cheap eats in France"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Champagne might be prohibitively expensive to drink, but it's a great place to visit, with all the major producers used to hosting tours round their cellars. In Epernay, stroll along the recently revamped Avenue de Champagne (termed \"the world's most drinkable address\" by Winston Churchill) and gawp at the 19th-century mansions belonging to the likes of Mo\u00ebt & Chandon (+33 3 2651 2020, moet.com), Mercier, Pol Roger, De Castellane, Perrier-Jou\u00ebt and Boizel. For \u20ac15 you get a tour of Mo\u00ebt's vast, 27km-long cellars and a glass of Mo\u00ebt Brut Imperial.The Rh\u00f4ne Valley is rich in wine, being home to the likes of C\u00f4te-R\u00f4tie and Hermitage in the north and Gigondas and Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape in the south. Do some research on websites such as yapp.co.uk and provencefoodandwine.com beforehand. In the southern Rh\u00f4ne, visit Domaine de Beaurenard in Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape (+33 4 9083 7179, beaurenard.fr) for a fascinating (and free) no-appointment-necessary tasting in their ancient cellars; and in the northern Rh\u00f4ne visit Maison Chapoutier (+33 4 7508 9261, chapoutier.com) in Tain l'Hermitage for the same. And, if you can wait until January next year, head to Ampuis for the four-day-long Foire d'Ampuis (+33 4 7456 1820), where for \u20ac8 you get a free glass and a chance to meet 60 Rh\u00f4ne producers.Travellers to the city of Bordeaux can find the price of even the most basic glass of wine alarming, so beware. The best place in town to get a decent, well-priced drink is Le Bar \u00e0 Vin (3 cours du 30 Juillet, +33 5 5600 4347, baravin.bordeaux.com). A light, spacious wine bar attached to l'Ecole du Vin (+33 5 5600 2285, vins-bordeaux.fr), it could hardly be more central, being a few hundred yards from the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre. It is also full of information about tours through the region as well as wine courses in l'Ecole itself. Heavily subsidised by the CIVB (the Bordeaux producers' association), it has a wide-ranging selection of local wines by the glass at absurdly accessible prices.There is no shortage of places to stay in and around Bordeaux but, again, these can be pricey. Among the best value are the H\u00f4tel de S\u00e8ze and its sister, the H\u00f4tel Royal M\u00e9doc (rue de S\u00e8ze, +33 5 5681 7242, hotelsezemedoc.free.fr). They are right in the heart of the city and are both much favoured by the English wine trade. They're simple and basic but, with rooms starting from \u20ac60 for a double, they're great value. For something a bit more wacky and out-of-town, try the wonderful treehouses (+33 5 5646 2948, naturacabana.fr) in the grounds of the Ch\u00e2teau de Malleret, 15km from Bordeaux. Prices start from \u20ac145 for three in a cabin.Saumur in the heart of the Loire Valley and its vineyards is within easy distance of the Channel ports. If your budget allows, book into the handsome Hotel Anne d'Anjou (+33 2 4167 3030, hotel-anneanjou.com), where rooms start from \u20ac105 per night. If budget doesn't allow, head for the Ile d'Offard in the middle of the river and the Hostel rue de Verden or its neighbouring campsite, Camping de l'Ile d'Offard (\u20ac16 for a two-person pitch, +33 2 4140 3000, cvtloisirs.com). Enjoy the superb local sparkling wines and honeyed chenin blancs and take a tour (and sample the excellent absinthe) at the tiny Combier distillery (48 rue Beaurepaire, +33 2 41 40 23 00, combier.fr).Alsace is a perfect place for pottering about with its Route de Vin (alsace-route-des-vins.com) easily negotiated by bicycle, so long as you're prepared for the occasional steep hill (you're in the foothills of the Vosges here). The region's medieval towns and villages such as Colmar, Obernai, Ribeauvill\u00e9 and Turckheim are absurdly picturesque with cobbled streets and half-timbered houses. Nearly all producers have free tastings for the public, with no obligation to buy. Park your bike at the foot of the main street in Riquewihr and wander up to the clock tower, taking in the various wine shops en route, perhaps stopping for a plate of choucroute \u00e0 l'Alsacienne. Hugel et Fils (3 rue de la Premi\u00e8re Arm\u00e9e, +33 3 8947 9215, hugel.com) is the best place to start.Gascony is a blessed spot, whose inhabitants, despite enjoying a diet rich in foie gras and confit de canard, boast lower levels of heart disease than anyone else in France and live an average five years longer. They put this down to their wines. Stay at British-owned Domaine de Lauroux (+33 5 6208 5676, lauroux.com), where a g\u00eete for six starts at \u20ac600 per week, and explore the region. Visit Bastide d'Armagnac (labastide-darmagnac.net) with its enchanting square colonnaded central place; Notre-Dame des Cyclistes (notredamedescyclistes.net), a tiny 11th-century chapel where Tour de France competitors come to pray; the exquisite hamlet of Larressingle (and taste its equally exquisite armagnac \u2013 tinyurl.com/6z7yo22); the food market of Eauze and buy foie gras, croustade and armagnac direct from artisan producers. (tourisme-gers.com).Go hiking on Les Calanques, the limestone cliffs with jaw-dropping views that run along the Mediterranean coast between Marseille and Cassis. Scramble down to an isolated cove for a gentle swim and a languorous picnic. Be sure to pack some bottles of Provence's hidden vinous gems in your basket, such as Cassis, Bandol, Palette and Bellet. Cassis itself is a delight, a bustling fishing port with dozens of restaurants, each attempting to outdo the other with their pistou soup and bouillabaisse. Enjoy them with Cassis wine (of which there are only 14 producers), a heady blend of marsanne, clairette and ugni blanc, and not to be confused with the blackcurrant cr\u00e8me de cassis.Corsica might seem a bit off-piste but the wines are increasingly fine (and remain excellent value) and the island itself is a bewitching spot with snow-capped mountains, rugged granite hills, flower-strewn meadows and pristine sandy beaches. Head for the hills around Sart\u00e8ne and seek out the delicate local ros\u00e9s. Or stop at roadside taverns to scoff wild boar salami and figatellu (liver sausage made from the local Corsican black pig), washed down with aromatic, herb-tinged reds made from the strange-sounding nielluccio and sciaccarellu grapes. And if you make it to Cap Corse in the far north, seek out the luscious, lip-smacking dessert muscats, long thought to be the island's crowning glory. Producers to look out for include Domaine Saparale (saparale.com), Domaine Torraccia and Domaine Pieretti (vinpieretti.com).Being in northern France, Montreuil-sur-Mer isn't in wine country at all. It is, though, home to the French outpost of the Wine Society (01438 741177, winesociety.com) and, as such, well worth a visit. Close to both Calais and Boulogne, it is easily accessible from the UK and ideal for a day trip. You can save a minimum \u00a318 a case by buying from here rather than the Wine Society's shop in Stevenage, and with over 200 wines to choose from there's no shortage of choice. A return on Eurotunnel (08443 353535, eurotunnel.com), plus petrol, plus lunch for two, comes to around \u00a390; the saving on buying five cases of wine is \u00a390. Enjoy a day for free in France!", "tags": ["France holidays", "Wine", "Food and drink", "Bordeaux holidays", "Corsica holidays", "Travel", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Budget wine trips in France"},{"date": "2011-01-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"We don't have a stronger friend and stronger ally than Nicolas Sarkozy, and the French people\" Barack Obama said today. Uh oh. No sooner had he done so than Washington-based British analyst Nile Gardiner rushed to his keyboard to blog for the Daily Telegraph: \"Quite what the French have done to merit this kind of high praise from the US president is difficult to fathom, and if the White House means what it says this represents an extraordinary sea change in US foreign policy.\" Touchy, aren't we?He goes on, outraged: \"To suggest that Paris and not London is Washington's strongest partner is simply ludicrous.\" And finishes, seemingly frothing at the mouth: \"No US president in modern times has described France as America's closest ally, and such a remark is not only factually wrong but also insulting to Britain, not least coming just a few years after the French famously knifed Washington in the back over the war in Iraq.\" Can somebody offer Mr Gardiner an aspirin?Nile, you shouldn't feel so bad, Obama was just being polite. As all presidents hosting foreign heads of state know, you simply cannot escape saying things like: \"Hamid Karzai is a great friend of the United States\" as George W Bush declared many times, or \"Colonel Gaddafi is a great friend of France\" as Sarkozy said when he invited the Libyan dictator to set up his tent with his all-female entourage in the gardens of the Elys\u00e9es in November 2007.Having said that, if you look at it historically, I'm sorry to say that it is factually and emotionally right for the American president to describe France as the US's greatest ally. 3 September 1783, anyone? Lord Cornwallis? General Rochambeau? French may have narrowly missed out on being chosen as the language of the United States, but without France, there'd be no American independence.As \"for knifing Washington in the back over the war in Iraq\", France was only doing the courageous act of warning a dear old friend that they were terribly wrong. Other allies thought no better but to acquiesce.In general, France and the French have a more straightforward relationship to America than their neighbours across the Channel. The idea is that love doesn't have to be servile. A fair amount of criticism is even expected and welcome, it is the sign of an equal and healthy relationship. If the leftist intelligentsia felt it needed to deride America just after the second world war, a majority of the French people embraced American culture.Many American artists and film directors, from Nicholas Ray to the Coen brothers, owe a large part of their world reputation to French film critics. To be a good friend, one has to be independent. That was always the point of view of French presidents from de Gaulle to Chirac. Nicolas Sarkozy is a unique figure in French politics, one who resorts to obsequiousness rather than healthy esprit critique. The truth is that Nicolas Sarkozy wishes he was American. But that's another story...", "tags": ["US news", "France", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France, America's special friend | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is called the Emerald coast and bears its name with panache. From Cancale, world capital for oysters, to St Briac, where Renoir loved daydreaming, this stretch of granite rocks and gold sand shelters resorts with everything discerning visitors on a budget could dream of. Among them is Dinard, between St Malo and St Lunaire. There, pitch your tent at the Camping du Port Blanc (rue du Sergent Boulanger, +33 2 9946 1074, camping-port-blanc.com) on the beach, from \u20ac13pp a night, or rent a studio at the charming La Pens\u00e9e in St Lunaire (la-pensee.pagesperso-orange.fr) from \u20ac195 for a week.Among the many things to do in and around Dinard: swim, sail, walk, eat and hunt for antiques. In Dinard and St Lunaire, Point Passion Plage (digue de L'Ecluse, Dinard, +33 2 9988 1520, pointplage.fr) provides kayak, catamaran and windsurf lessons and rentals. You can also purchase a \u20ac92 pass that will give you access to all their activities.Your stay on the Emerald coast wouldn't be complete without a taste of the region's best galettes, such as those of Cr\u00eaperie du Roy (9 boulevard F\u00e9art, Dinard, +33 2 9946 1057). Go for the galette soubise (onions cooked in muscadet) and cr\u00eape pomme maison flamb\u00e9e au calvados \u2013 your palate (and wallet) will be forever grateful.If you want to treat yourself, then veer towards the promenade au Clair de Lune. At the end stands La Gonelle (+33 2 9916 4047, lagonelle.com), a seafood and fish restaurant open from 15 April to 30 September. You can choose your fish from the aquarium; the chef will present it to you on a platter as it breathes its last.There's no need for a car in Dinard. Public transport, such as the bus linking St Briac to St Malo (illenoo-services.fr), or the vedette (boat) taking you to St Malo every half-hour (vedettes-saint-malo.com), are reliable and cheap. You can also rent a bike for the day near Dinard's market (8 rue St Enogat, +33 2 9946 2725, breizhcycles.com) and cycle to the medieval city of Dinan (dinan-tourisme.com). You'll pedal through sunflower fields and old villages and hug the River Rance for a few miles. Dinard will leave you with wonderful and enduring souvenirs.French-born Agn\u00e8s Poirier is a political commentator and film critic based in ParisIn order to do the Marcel Proust tour of Normandy properly, you should ideally be driven by a bisexual chauffeur you're lusting after. If you can't manage that, then hire a convertible two-seater and get your significant other to wear goggles, kinky rubber coat and close-fitting aviator's hat while you shout relevant passages from A la Recherche du Temps Perdu from the passenger seat.Drive first to the Grand H\u00f4tel Cabourg (les jardins du Casino, +33 2 3191 0179, accorhotels.com) on the lovely C\u00f4te Fleurie (Flower Coast). Proust checked into his fourth floor suite here feverish and exhausted in the summer 1907. He wrote: \"\u2026 menaced by the enemies thronging around me, penetrated to the very bones by fever, I was alone and wanted to die\". When I stayed in the Marcel Proust suite with my beloved, by contrast, I couldn't have been happier. I flung open the French windows on to the Promenade de Marcel Proust and rang for the best room service I've ever had \u2013 champagne with confite de daurade aux hu\u00eetres.You could splash out and do the same \u2013 a double room costs from \u20ac165. Or stay at nearby La Raspeli\u00e8re (from \u20ac80 for a double, chambres-hotes-cabourg.fr), and then dine at Le Balbec restaurant below the Grand H\u00f4tel, with its marvellous seasonal seafood menu (three courses from \u20ac56). First, though, have a Proust cocktail (gin, cointreau, orange and cura\u00e7ao bleu) in the Belle Epoque bar while listening to Scott Joplin on the computerised pianola.Next morning follow Proust and the love of his life, chauffeur Albert Agostinelli, on their tour of Norman architecture. They went to Bayeux, not to see the tapestry, but to pay homage to oriental figures in the romanesque part of Bayeux cathedral. They didn't, as far as I can find out, have lunch in Bayeux's restaurants (try La Rapi\u00e8re, off rue St Jean, +33 2 3121 0545, larapiere.net) offering Norman-style cooking. But you should.Rejoin Proust's tour by visiting the abbeys of Jumi\u00e8ges, Saint-Wandrille and Saint-Georges de Bouscheville, perhaps taking tea at the Ch\u00e2teau de Balleroy (chateau-balleroy.com), where Proust savoured Boucher's tapestries.Check into another grand hotel \u2013 the Grand H\u00f4tel de l'Esp\u00e9rance at Lisieux (from \u20ac69 a night, lisieux-hotel.com) and after dinner, get your chauffeur to drive you to the cathedral of St Pierre. It was here that in 1907 Proust studied the facade's foliated tracery, illuminated by Agostinelli's headlamps.The following morning drive towards Illiers, where adolescent Marcel stayed. On the way, you'd be idiotic not to visit Chartres cathedral (chartres-tourisme.com). Illiers itself is a scruffy backwater village transformed into Combray in the novel. Today the house where Proust's Tante L\u00e9onie lived is a little museum (marcelproust.pagesperso-orange.fr). From Illiers, you could drive to Monet's garden at Giverny (\u20ac8, giverny.org/gardens). Proust repeatedly planned to go, but never made it. A shame: given his love of botany and his hypersensitive openness to beauty, he would have adored it.Stuart Jeffries is a feature writer and ex-Paris correspondent for the GuardianThe Loire Valley has to be France's most fran\u00e7ais region. Its people speak the purest French, and it's also at the heart of the country's history \u2013 a fascinating base for a week's touring.The most famous chateau, and justifiably so, is Chenonceau (chenonceau.com) in Indre-et-Loire \u2013 it straddles a lake on a series of arches, and was a gift from King Henri II to his lover Diane de Poitiers, a woman so sexy that the Queen, Catherine de Medici, used to spy on the couple's lovemaking to learn a few tricks. Chenonceau is to chateaux what Monica Bellucci is to cinema. Le Relais de Chenonceaux (+33 2 4723 9811, chenonceaux.com), close to the chateau, has double rooms from \u20ac52, half-board from \u20ac92.To the south-west, across vineyard-covered countryside stands the hilltop Ch\u00e2teau de Chinon (visit-loire.com/cities-loire/chinon). You can stand in the very room where Joan of Arc performed a \"miracle\" in 1429. To test her divine inspiration, Prince Charles (no, not that one) hid in disguise among his courtiers. Unerringly, Joan picked him out. Miraculous, until you realise that the knock-kneed, squinty-eyed prince was one of the most recognisable men in France.A great-value day out is a rent-a-bike ride along the Loire riverbanks from the medieval Ch\u00e2teau de Blois (chateaudeblois.fr): Tra\u00eeneurs de Loire (traineursdeloire.com) rent out bikes for \u20ac13 a day from several locations along the river.In the evenings, the region is the perfect place for a gourmet feast. In the old centre of Saumur, Auberge Saint-Pierre (6 place Saint-Pierre, auberge-saintpierre.com) has traditional regional cuisine at reasonable prices, such as boeuf bourguignon for \u20ac11.50.And if I taste a wine I like at dinner, I ask the restaurateur for the grower's address, then drop by next day to stock up at wholesale prices. Chinon blanc sec, for example, is a golden drink that inspires descriptions like \"harmonious\", \"fruity\" and \"generous with its charms\" \u2013 very much like this part of France itself.Stephen Clarke, author of A Year in the Merde (Black Swan, \u00a37.99). His new book, Paris Revealed, is out on 31 MarchThe first time I travelled down to France's south-west corner, it was to investigate the region's separatist movement, Iparetarrak (IK), a more amateurish and considerably less violent version of Eta. For many years, IK was secretly applauded by those Parisians lucky enough to own houses along that pristine stretch of Atlantic coastline. Twenty years on, the revolutionaries that fed IK have retired and development along the coastline has mushroomed. New-builds have sprung up on the hills, and traffic jams along the coast's route nationale are the norm.There is one place, however, that has not changed. Gu\u00e9thary is a small fishing village nestled between the chichi seaside towns of Biarritz and Saint Jean-de-Luz. It is also one of Europe's more confidential surf spots and so it has been contaminated or preserved, depending on your point of view, by a certain alternative vibe that seems to co-exist quite nicely with the well-heeled Parisian families who have been holidaying there since the 60s.The village is sliced in two by the route nationale, so you'll want to make sure you're staying on the right side of it. Head straight to the Hotel Madrid (+33 5 5926 5212, lemadrid.com) in the heart of the village. Here the sound of the ocean rubs out the distant rumble of traffic. Unaltered since the turn of the last century when Paul Klee stayed here and sat with Kandinsky on its windswept terrace overlooking the sea, Le Madrid is still a simple, family hotel with five pretty rooms, from \u20ac59 a night, and a good restaurant.Gu\u00e9thary is one of those magical places to which people return faithfully all their lives. My own children would play for hours on its vast fronton (court), theoretically for pelota but more often for impromptu football, or rollerskating, or teenage flirting or, at night, dances and fireworks or Basque games (shows of strength).In the morning, you might walk down to one of Gu\u00e9thary's three beaches: la Plage du Centre to mess around in the rockpools and eat chipirones (tiny squid) or gambas a la plancha (grilled shrimp) at Kostaldea, a little place right on the beach. Or there are the wilder beaches of Les Alcyons or Cenitz, where you can lie on the white sand or body-surf in the big waves. Later, while the children play outside you can be in the Bar Basque opposite the Madrid, drinking sangria and watching the sunset.Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber, \u00a37.99)With a unique Franco-German character, Alsace offers stunning mountainous scenery, gorgeous villages, fascinating museums and wonderful wines. My ideal itinerary around the region kicks off high up in the Vosges mountains. The wonderful little eco-hotel Villa Rosa (rue Thierry Schoerem, +33 3 8949 8119, villarosa.fr) in Trois-Epis, near the town of Colmar, is the perfect place to relax. It has eight comfortable rooms costing from \u20ac63 per night, and its owner, Anne-Rose, creates wonderful meals with the vegetables, herbs and flowers from her garden (\u20ac26 for three courses).After winding down for a day or two next to the solar-heated pool or taking walks from the hotel, I'll jump in the hire car for some thrilling drives through the mountains. The hairpin bends aren't for the faint-hearted, and the roads' steep hills are a popular challenge for cyclists. My destination is the nearby village of Turckheim. Like my other favourite villages, Eguisheim and Riquewihr, Turckheim has wonderful narrow streets rambling through colourful timber-framed houses with window boxes in full bloom. My stroll will also have me sniffing out one of Turckheim's wineries where I'll sample the local riesling and gew\u00fcrztraminer.Not far from Turckheim is the imposing Ch\u00e2teau du Haut-Koenigsbourg (haut-koenigsbourg.fr). Sitting high over the vineyard-lined valley, the castle dates from the 12th century and offers incredible views across to the Black Forest in Germany. After a poke around its battlements, I'll carry on to Colmar, a gorgeous little town in the heart of Alsace. Lunch is at the characterful restaurant Maison Rouge (9, rue des Ecoles, Colmar, +33 3 8923 5322), where I'll tuck into a salad of the local Munster cheese, or a delicious tarte flamb\u00e9e, before walking it off along the canal in the area known as Petite Venise (Little Venice).Carolyn Boyd is editor of France magazine (francemag.com) Beneath Tiepolo skies, it's a gentle amble through shimmering cognac vines down to the Charente river for a dip in the calm waters. Such is the idyllic nature of summer days in the Charente, second-sunniest corner of France, after the Riviera.The riverside town of Cognac has for four centuries been the home of cognac-making, now a booming export trade, not least among the American rapper fraternity where it's known as \"yak\". In the courtyard restaurant of the quirkily decorated but comfortable Hotel Heritage (25, rue d'Angoul\u00eame, +33 5 4582 0126, hheritage.com, doubles \u20ac70) or in the smartly cosy Le Bistro de Claude (35 rue Grande, +33 5 4582 6032, bistro-de-claude.com) the spirit Victor Hugo dubbed \"the liquor of the gods\" is served in tulip glasses to stop aromas escaping.Most cognac houses \u2013 such as Hennessy, Martell and R\u00e9my Martin \u2013 offer visits and tastings. But Baron Otard (baronotard.com) has the advantage of being in the Ch\u00e2teau de Cognac so the tour takes in Renaissance halls designed by Leonardo da Vinci and plunges into a fungi-draped dungeon, the \"paradise cellar\", where cognacs from centuries past are stored.For sustenance of the soul, the nearby thousand-year-old Abbey of Bassac (+33 5 4581 9422, abbayebassac.com) has a tangible spirituality and visitors are welcome to stroll in the near-silent gardens. Within the same tiny village there's a choice of two good restaurants, L'Essille (rue de Conde, +33 5 4581 9413, hotel-restaurant-essille.com) and L'Auberge de Cond\u00e9 (, doubles \u20ac35, rue Rixendis Loriches, +33 5 4583 0967, auberge-de-conde.net).But for an insight into contemporary French culture, head to Angoul\u00eame, historic home of papermaking and capital of the comic book. On a ramble through the hilly Charente capital you'll spot some of the 20 or so giant-scale cartoon scenes painted on to the sides of buildings by top comic strip artists.Lennox Morrison is an author and journalist based in ParisThe prehistoric Lascaux caves, Bergerac, and Sarlat are the famous sites of the Dordogne region of Aquitaine, but in the bit I know well I've found many surprising treasures. Make a base in the pretty village of Sainte Alv\u00e8re, such as the sweet Roquebrune en P\u00e9rigord (+33 5 5361 2418, roquebrune-perigord.com, \u20ac75 for two), where you will be tempted to spend a week scoffing saucisson, truffles and foie gras from the weekly market (the rotisserie chicken van is amazing). Go dancing one night with local farmers, families and dreadlocked hippies at La Guinguette de Neufonds, a fun restaurant beside a lake (where you can swim) near Vergt, that has a cheap buffet with live music ranging from Gypsy jazz to local ska-punk.My top day trips are as follows. A wonderful chateau with an interesting backstory is Ch\u00e2teau des Milandes (milandes.com) in Castelnaud-la-Chapelle, once the home of Josephine Baker, the African American who became an exotic dancer in Paris in the 20s. She also spied for the French resistance, was a major player in the American civil rights movement and the Angelina Jolie of her day, adopting children from around the world. Look out for the gorgeous art deco bathrooms modelled on perfume bottles and her famous banana skirt. Another day drive to Limeuil, where the Dordogne and V\u00e9z\u00e8re rivers meet and you can go for a high-speed float in the strong currents, or kayak. Further away, on the coast, the incredible Dune du Pyla is Europe's biggest sand dune, and if you're in the area in May, the Bergerac jazz festival (jazzpourpre.com) is excellent.Gemma Bowes, acting travel editor of the GuardianProvence and the C\u00f4te d'Azur don't take kindly to budgets, but experiencing the region on the cheap is possible. I'd head to N\u00eemes (just over the border in Languedoc-Roussillon), preferably between 8-13 June for the F\u00e9ria (viva-la-feria.com), and either buy a ticket for the bullfighting at the Roman arena of Les Ar\u00e8nes (4 rue de la Violette, arenesdenimes.com) or settle for some gardiane, a bull casserole. I'd sleep at the excellent N\u00eemes youth hostel (\u20ac35 for a double, +33 4 6668 0320, hinimes.com).On to Arles and the fascinating Van Gogh walking tour (+33 4 9018 4120, arlestourisme.com) then, bellyful of bull finally digested \u2013 it won't go down without a fight \u2013 I'll have pizza at Chez N\u00e9n\u00e9 et B\u00e9b\u00e9 (12 impasses du Forum, +33 4 9093 4949, tinyurl.com/5sg57fg).I'd like to hit Avignon for its festival from 6-26 July (+33 4 9027 6650, festival- avignon.com) and to eat at Au Tout Petit (\u20ac25 for three courses, 4 rue d'Amphoux, +33 4 9082 3886, autoutpetit.fr), which serves good value, inventive dishes.Last stop, Aix-en-Provence, and I'd stretch the budget to stay at Le Manoir (\u20ac67 for a double room, 8 rue d'Entrecasteaux, +33 4 4226 2720, hotelmanoir.com), set in an historic house with a beautiful courtyard and 14th-century cloister.Neil McQuillian is a travel writer for Rough GuidesIt is easy to find the Languedoc. Just follow the Rh\u00f4ne river, and when you hit the southern French coast, instead of turning left to head to St Tropez or Provence, head right towards Spain. The region stretches over 16,000 square miles.Your first major stop is B\u00e9ziers, a city that seems almost more Spanish than French. It was a Cathar stronghold in medieval times and the site of a horrendous massacre in 1209 when crusaders besieged the city. The worst bloodshed took place in the cathedral, which you should visit, if only for the views across the city and the Orb. Then you have two choices for lunch; either the best wine-bar in the region, Le Chameau Ivre (15 place Jean Jaur\u00e8s, +33 4 6780 2020, tinyurl.com/5s93d5t), or a charming restaurant called Le Petit Monmartre (+33 4 6728 5654, lepetitmontmartre.net) in the elegant Place de la Madeleine. Stay at the H\u00f4tel des Po\u00e8tes, overlooking the park (80 all\u00e9es Paul Riquet, +33 4 67 76 38 66, hoteldespoetes.net).Next stop is the Etang de Bages, just outside Narbonne. You can walk along the wooden walkways over the water, or simply along the coastal paths, admiring the nature and the pink flamingoes. If you're hungry there is no nicer place to eat than the restaurant Le Portanel (pas de Portanel, +33 4 6842 8166, leportanel.fr).From there it is a short drive to Spain, but please don't miss Collioure (collioure.com), just before the border, a favourite haunt of the fauvist artists and famous for its anchovies.Helena Frith Powell is the author of Love in a Warm Climate (Gibson Square, \u00a38.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Dordogne holidays", "Provence holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Pyrenees holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Classic France: the insiders' guide"},{"date": "2011-03-21T08:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "To understand what literary life in France is like, imagine a pond. A pond that's getting smaller and smaller, with just as many fish in it, so that the water is getting more and more crowded. You can guess what happens: each one has less and less space to evolve, to find food, and even to develop the energy required to discuss ideas. Sales of books continue to be weak in 2011, after a particularly flat year for publishers and bookshops. Apart from the usual juggernauts, such as titles from the bestselling authors Mark L\u00e9vy and Am\u00e9lie Nothomb, and more sporadic successes such as the latest novel from Michel Houellebecq (winner of the Prix Goncourt in November last year), most novels and essays struggle to make any money.Yet the landscape certainly doesn't lack variety: for the past 30 years the French have benefited from a law setting a single book price, which has\u00a0made it possible to preserve diversity on the publishing scene. Rather than being flattened by concentration, many small publishers still do remarkable work, alongside the larger houses. As a result, a multiplicity of tastes can happily continue to be met, with tiny publishing houses often taking on translation projects or\u00a0the publication of complete works. In contrast to the early 90s, when lots of small publishers were going bankrupt, publishing today is no longer a\u00a0graveyard.Some smaller enterprises have been taken over by larger ones, but without necessarily losing their identity. So M\u00e9taili\u00e9 and L'Olivier were bought up by Le Seuil, while POL, Verticales and Jo\u00eblle Losfeld were bought by Gallimard. At a time when publishing companies, as well as the press, are losing their independence all over the world, Gallimard is celebrating its centenary as an independent company, and is in a state of health that would make many younger houses green with envy. The fact remains that the market is tightening relentlessly. As elsewhere, one can witness an increasing polarisation in sales, with the gap widening between titles that \"take off\", often the most mainstream ones, and all the others, notably midlist titles, whose sales have been completely squashed.This polarisation is reflected in the way the press talks about books. In newspapers the space devoted to literature is now relatively stable after a dramatic decline over the past 10 years. As a result, critics struggle to cover the full range of books produced, caught between the need to\u00a0talk about what everyone else is talking about, the\u00a0need to\u00a0explore types of literature that almost no one is talking about and the wish to get themselves talked about by\u00a0taking up increasingly clear-cut positions.In these circumstances, what happens to the discussion of ideas? It\u00a0is still alive with regard to the big questions that run through society (political, religious, social, historical, and so on). According to the philosopher and novelist Bernard-Henri L\u00e9vy,\u00a0the French situation is unusual in that, instead of being permanently fixed, \"intellectual groups re-form around each issue like iron filings around a magnet\", a situation which has become more marked in the last 20 years. In January 2011 the \"affaire C\u00e9line\" shook the cultural world. The\u00a0writer Louis-Ferdinand C\u00e9line, who wrote some truly great books and also some violently anti-semitic tracts, was included in the calendar of national commemorations, to mark\u00a0the 50th anniversary of his death. His presence in this official brochure provoked such a furore that the minister of culture eventually backed down and removed C\u00e9line.In the purely literary domain, on the other hand, debate is less lively. The controversies that arose when autobiographical fiction, or \"autofiction\", began to establish itself, thanks to writers such as Serge Doubrovsky (who invented the term), then Christine Angot and Camille Laurens, have more or less subsided. The publication, in January this year, of Angot's latest novel, Les petits (Flammarion), caused hardly any debate, as if the critics had got used to this type of writing and to the dangers it can bring.Indeed, \"autofiction\", which introduces a character sharing the same name as the author, in situations which are more or less fictitious, has an almost incestuous relationship with the real world. As a result, this bold genre, which has given French literature some of its most interesting books in the last few years, is not neutral \u2013 and this is undoubtedly one\u00a0of its strengths. However, autofiction no longer sparks the same passions as it did 10 years ago. In the case of Angot's latest, which has not had the anticipated impact on readers, it has taken a lawsuit to rouse the literary world from its torpor: one brought by the ex-girlfriend of the man Angot shares her life with, and from whom the writer drew inspiration in her book.Another lawsuit has drawn attention to a book by the prominent author R\u00e9gis Jauffret a year after its publication: in S\u00e9v\u00e8re, published by Seuil in January 2010, Jauffret was clearly inspired by the Stern affair (the\u00a0assassination of a rich banker by his mistress, in the course of sado-masochistic games), without ever naming the real protagonists. The novel was received reasonably well by critics and had some moderate success in bookshops. But several months later, when faced with the prospect of a film adaptation, Edouard Stern's family become concerned and\u00a0attacked the author. The latter found immediate support from about 20 writers and intellectuals who signed a petition on his behalf, launched at the instigation of the magazine La R\u00e8gle du jeu.The new generation of writers seems not to worry unduly about these questions. Writers such as Yannick Haenel, Maylis de K\u00e9rangal and Delphine Coulin are making a name for themselves without belonging to any school: reworking plots when it suits them, using fiction or autofiction in their own ways, and inventing new forms when they can. And that's all to the good.1 Indignez vous! (Cry out!) by St\u00e9phane Hessel (former diplomat's plea for outrage from French people at the state of their nation)2 La carte et le territoire by Michel Houellebecq (Goncourt winner)3 Les \u00e9cureuils de Central Park sont tristes le lundi by Katherine Pancol (New York-based novel)4 M\u00e9tronome: L'histoire de France au rythme du m\u00e9tro parisien by Lorant Deutsch (history)5 La m\u00e9thode Dukan illustr\u00e9e by Pierre Dukan (illustrated diet plan)Total 2010 book sales 464.5m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture", "Fiction"], "title": "What they're reading in France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T06:30:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "In the past 60 years, two major choices have shaped French foreign policy while pulling France and the UK apart: the European project begun after the second world war and built in accordance with Jean Monnet's conception,; and national independence, as sought by Charles de Gaulle after his return to power in 1958. These two paths were contradictory, the first only comprehensible because France, having twice nearly perished during the first part of the 20th century, had such profound doubts about itself that it chose to make Europe a substitute for the nation. The UK, however, could not come to terms with having to fade within a \"supranational\" Europe.This view was shared by De Gaulle: the general did not believe in supranationality, but he did want to build a \"Europe of nations\". Beyond this, he defined his objective as the emergence of a \"European Europe\" \u2013 agent of its own destiny. This was a bitter pill to swallow for the UK, which was attached to its special relationship with the US.Today, the crisis of the euro reflects the impasse reached by supranational Europe. The French project of burying German reunification within a federal Europe \u2013 the idea behind the Maastricht treaty \u2013 ended long ago. And curiously, it is this moment which President Sarkozy has chosen for France to rejoin Nato, under the bizarre pretext of facilitating the emergence of \"European defence\".French diplomacy thus has a double hangover. Germany has dragged Europe, or in any case the eurozone, into a bidding war of economic rigour leading to a historical dead end. France does not dare to challenge Angela Merkel's policy, because it is reluctant to question the rules of the game accepted by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand when they were set out, back when he thought he could modify them when the right moment presented itself. They have now proven to be inadequate and impossible to change in substance: thanks to the rules imposed by Maastricht, the European central bank does not believe it has the authority to intervene in debt markets in order to smash speculation and save the euro. The currency is doomed \u2013 it is smothering every economy in Europe, except Germany's. Floating between the dollar and the Chinese yuan, we are, in effect, caught in the jaws of the G2, or \"Chinamerica\".This is all the more worrying because, in addition, French diplomacy has recently followed in the wake of US diplomacy. But the US is less and less concerned about Europe; it is increasingly turned towards the Pacific and China. While French diplomacy has lost its bearings, it could find them anew if it returned to De Gaulle's Europe of nations, whose vocation is to exist between the US and China. Is this the path laid out by the Anglo-French agreements of November 2010? It is too early to say, however desirable the prospect may be. Relations with Barack Obama are no longer a bone of contention between the two countries. The UK is seeking to influence the US by remaining close to it, France is pursuing the same objective by opposite means: independence, but within an alliance. And as for Nato? Yes, but only on the condition that we do not compromise our influence in Arab countries.In recent weeks, the US has only allowed France and the UK a hand in Libya, nothing more. Our two long-lived nations must, together, represent the aims of the US leadership while also taking care to work within a frame of legality in an international context, keeping the protection of civilians in mind. We must respect the democratic will currently expressed by the Arab world, and gather a maximum number of Arab, African and developing countries around a strategy which should only seek to establish the conditions of self-determination for the Libyan people. This is how we will, together, best prepare the future of a great democratic Europe of the nations \u2013 one stretching from the Mediterranean to Russia.The UK has to consider its future with Europe. Our two nations could help set Europe back on her feet. We could do Europe this service at the same time as we do it for ourselves.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "World news", "Politics", "Nato", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "France and Britain \u2013 a new special relationship | Jean-Pierre Chev\u00e8nement"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Auvergne is located smack in the centre of France, with a stunning national park that features extinct volcanoes, deep glacial lakes and old-fashioned spa towns. In the sleepy rural village of Muret, you can discover a homely B&B like the Maison de Muret \u2013 it's just \u20ac54 a night for a double, and the owners put on an incredible feast at night, beginning with a glass of Gentiane (a local aperitif of mountain herbs), hearty dishes like homemade sausages with truffade (creamy potatoes), Cantal cheese fresh from the neighbouring farm, and a tarte aux myrtilles \u2013 all for a grand total of \u20ac17 a head, wine and coffee included.\u2022 Maison de Muret, Muret, Thi\u00e9zac, +33\u00a04 7147 5123, maisondemuret.comAlthough the seafood and fish are out of this world in Brittany, restaurants don't tend to be cheap in the picture-postcard fishing villages. But this is also the world's capital of cr\u00eapes, and for a genuine locals' address check out the Cr\u00eaperie Amzer Zo in the tiny port of Kerity. Amzer 'zo is Breton for \"no hurry\", and its sunny terrace is perfect for a lazy lunch of delicious buckwheat cr\u00eapes stuffed with everything from tasty andouille sausage to ham and eggs. Finish off with a cr\u00eape au chocolat, forget the wine and order a bowl of cider, and the bill still won't come to much more than \u20ac10.\u2022 Cr\u00eaperie Amzer Zo, 31 quai Charles de\u00a0Gaulle, Kerity, Penmarc'h, +33 2 9858 8545Whether it is for gourmet food or fine wines, there are few regions in France that can compare with Burgundy. Saulieu has a strong claim to be the gastronomic capital of the region, and if you don't want to splash out at the three-star Michelin Relais Bernard Loiseau, then check in almost next door at the surprising Borne Imperiale. A comfy double room looking out over beautifully landscaped gardens costs \u20ac45-60, and the genial chef, Jean Berteau, prepares a tempting three-course terroir menu of escargots \u00e0 la bourguignonne, a succulent jambon a l'os, slowly braised with wild mushrooms, and a sinful mousse au chocolat, priced at \u20ac24.50.\u2022 Relais Bernard Loiseau, 2 rue d'Argentine, Saulieu, +33 3 8090 5353, bernard-loiseau.com; Borne Imperiale, 6 rue d'Argentine, +33 3 8064 1976, borne-imperiale.comOyster-lovers are spoilt for choice when travelling around the French coast, but for the perfect mix of stunning natural landscapes and the finest sp\u00e9ciales and fines de claire oysters, it is difficult to beat the Bassin d'Arcachon. Bernard Delis, known locally as Monsieur des Huitres, opens up his cabane on the jetty of Port de Larros each summer, and for just \u20ac8 he shucks a dozen of his oysters, while a chilled bottle of wine from the nearby Entre-deux-Mers vineyards will set you back another \u20ac7. Stay at a B&B in the village, such as Clos Saint-Michel, which offers doubles at \u20ac55.\u2022 Bernard Delis, Port de Larros, Cabane 81, +33 6 1460 5493, etablissement-b-delis.com; Clos Saint-Michel, 54 rue Edmond Daubric, Gujan Mestras, +33 5\u00a05666 4329, clossaintmichel.frThe Sud-Ouest is all about serious eating, from confit de canard, a hearty cassoulet or foie gras to the delicious Basque speciality piquillos \u2013 red peppers stuffed with stockfish, a type of dried fish. Alain Dutournier is acclaimed as an ambassador of this region's cuisine, with a two-star Michelin dining room and two other restaurants in Paris. He recommends a visit to Pouillon, just outside the town of Dax, to L'Auberge du Pas de Vent, where acclaimed young chef Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Dubern sticks to traditions with a \u20ac22.50 Menu Gascon, which features beef terrine, slowly roasted duck and a \"nose-to-tail\" pork dish for adventurous diners.\u2022 L'Auberge du Pas de Vent, 281 avenue Pas de Vent, Pouillon, +33 5 5898 3465, auberge-dupasdevent.comGuy Martin is the celebrated chef of the legendary Parisian restaurant Le Grand Vefour, and his cooking always reflects his Alpine roots. What few people know is that he is also partner in a down-to-earth diner, Le Trianon, hidden away in the ski resort and spa town of Allevard, where prices range at lunch from just \u20ac9 for a dish of the day to \u20ac15 for a three-course set meal. Although the menu features classic Savoyard fondue and raclette, Martin's influence means there are also gourmet options like a tempting duck shepherd's pie with pumpkin and the local Beaufort cheese.\u2022 Le Trianon, avenue des Bains, Parc des Thermes, Allevard, +33 4 7671 9617, letrianon-allevard.frAlsace surprises the visitor, not just with the strange Germanic dialect and\u00a0its colourful half-timbered gingerbread houses clustered in tiny villages surrounded by rolling vine-clad\u00a0hills, but also with some of the country's finest cuisine. Alsatian foie gras rivals that of the Dordogne, while the locals prefer their pungent Munster\u00a0cheese sprinkled with cumin seeds to camembert or brie. Walk into the homely winstub (bistro) L'Agneau d'Or in Obernai and you're spoilt for choice between a steaming plate of choucroute\u00a0topped with sausages, chops, bacon and black pudding, for\u00a0\u20ac17, or a three-course regional menu\u00a0at \u20ac24.\u2022 L'Agneau d'Or, 99 rue du General Gouraud, Obernai, +33 3 8895 2822Is it possible to find anywhere reasonably priced to eat on the ritzy Riviera? Well, steer clear of the celeb haunts of St Tropez, Cannes and Juan-les-Pins and there are some surprising discoveries hidden away along the Mediterranean coastline. Le Rayol Canadel is worth a detour just for its breathtaking tropical gardens. Le Maurin des Maures, nearby, is a local institution, with a sunny terrace overlooking the sea and a \u20ac13.50 three-course menu offering soupe de poisson, delicious grilled sardines and profiteroles smothered with hot chocolate sauce. To stay the night in the town, check out Villa Louise, which has doubles from \u20ac75.\u2022 Le Maurin des Maures, avenue du Touring Club, Le Rayol Canadel, +33 4 9405 6011, maurin-des-maures.com; Villa Louise, 21 corniche de la Louve, +33 4 9405 5284, tinyurl.com/6gb5tdcThe old-fashioned village bistrot is still alive and well across Provence, perfect for a Pastis at dusk when the locals are playing p\u00e9tanque, and ideal for sampling distinctive Proven\u00e7al cuisine without paying a fortune. In picturesque Opp\u00e8de, the Caf\u00e9 des Poulivets has a plat du jour at just \u20ac9 \u2013 try to come on Friday when a wonderful garlicky a\u00efoli is served, following the recipe of the owner's grandmother. This cafe is just one of an excellent selection of cheap and cheerful restaurants across Provence that feature on bistrotdepays.com, which has many addresses to track down and is more fun than the stuffy Michelin Guide.\u2022 Caf\u00e9 des Poulivets, Opp\u00e8de, +33 4 9005 8831, cafedespoulivets.com", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Brittany holidays", "Provence holidays"], "title": "Budget bourguignon: cheap eats in France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "A collection of high-quality accommodation in France that particularly welcomes gay and lesbian travellers has been launched by Further Afield (07932 755515, furtherafield.com). Par example, La Petite Maison is a romantic river village cottage that sleeps two, with an eclectic collection of furniture, in the Loire, near Treves. It's run by Sue and Micaela who are obsessed with wine, and can arrange local tastings and trips. It costs from \u20ac330 for a weekend.If budget isn't a problem, the place to stay this year is the Ch\u00e2teau de la Goujeonnerie (07879 640858, lestroisgarcons.com/chateau, sleeps 54, from \u00a319,500 per week or \u00a39,000 for a long weekend), run by the people behind London's hip cocktail bar Loungelover and Les Trois Garcons restaurant. Located in the Vend\u00e9e, it is the definition of fairytale, with \"floating\" towers on the corners of the chateau and flamboyant interiors featuring unicorn taxidermy and chandeliers. Seven doubles and three singles are available in the chateau, plus a further 15 doubles and two singles in outbuildings. It's a vast party pad, with drawing rooms, a library, steam room, gym and bar, plus a heated outdoor pool in the grounds, reached by strolling through a forest. The property is let as a whole, catered or not.Just outside Lille, the LAM (musee-lam.fr) modern art museum has reopened after a major extension by Manuelle Gautrand, in a park of sculptures in Villeneuve d'Ascq. It features more than 4,500 works. While in town, you should also take a trip out to Roubaix, where an art deco swimming pool (with the water still in it) has been turned into a gallery, Roubaix La Piscine (+33 3 2069 2360, roubaix-lapiscine.com), with sculptures arranged where once dive-bombers scuttled, and a lovely garden overlooked by a terrace cafe.Imagine pedalling through fields of sunflowers with the wind in your hair and a baguette in your basket. Now check out Freewheeling France (freewheelingfrance.com), a new English-language website that tells you everything you need to know about arranging a cycling holiday. There's help for independent tourers as well as package travellers. If you've got a question they haven't already answered, fellow cyclists will help you out on the message boards.Alsace (tourism-alsace.com) looks set to be a popular destination this year after BMI (flybmi.com) and Swiss (swiss.com) announced new flights from Heathrow and Manchester to Basel-Mulhouse in the south of the region. The route will start operating on 27 March, with both airlines' prices starting around \u00a389 return (\u00a393 from Manchester). Easyjet (easyjet.com) began flying to the same airport from Edinburgh in December, while the train takes around six and a half hours from London, with returns from \u00a3190 (Eurostar to Paris then TGV to Basel, raileurope.co.uk). Alsace may well become the next big place for foodies, with the most Michelin-starred restaurants in France outside of Paris.For the first time, the position of 400 ski resorts across the Alpine countries, including France, has been marked on a map that shows the Alpine rail routes. More than 120 resorts are directly accessible by train, making it easy to arrange an independent trip to these as well as smaller, lesser known resorts. Order from Roger Lascelles (01255 870595, rogerlascellesmaps.co.uk). A folded map is \u00a38.95, a wall\u00a0map \u00a311.Travel writer Bev Fearis has launched G\u00eetes Guebernez (+33 2 9739 4325, gitesatguebernez.com), two charming new g\u00eetes in central Brittany with her partner Warren (an interiors photographer \u2013 so it's guaranteed to look good, plus his landscape photography decorates the interiors and is available to buy). La Grande sleeps 6-9 people, and Le Pressoir sleeps 2-4. For kids, there's a large lawn for games, a pool table, table tennis, boules, a rope swing, treasure hunts, board games and a dressing-up box, plus a library. You can enjoy a three-course meal for \u20ac11 including wine at the local restaurant, Chez Marie-Th\u00e9 (+33 2 9739 4382) in the village of Ploerdut.It pays to book \u2013 and go \u2013 early if you fancy a self-catering break in France. Pierre & Vacances (0870 026 7145, pierreetvacances.co.uk) has 25% off early summer short breaks, with prices starting at \u20ac25pp a night. You need to book before 22 April for a trip before mid-July. Holidays include a spa break in Normandy (from \u20ac585) and a weekend in La Rochelle (from \u20ac340), plus lots of family-friendly properties.The former house of the poet and artist Jean Cocteau, in Milly-La-For\u00eat near Paris (+33 1 6498 1150, jeancocteau.net), has been turned into a museum, with 500 paintings, drawings and other art works decorating his rooms, along with leopard print wallpaper and erotic knick-knacks. You can also visit his grave in the same village at the St Blaise chapel, inside which is one of his frescoes.Increase your fitness while being motivated by your sports hero. The likes of Olympians Sally Gunnell, Liz Yelling and Sharron Davies lead a choice of sports retreats in La Clusaz, in the Aravis valley, with Adventures in the Alps (0845 519 3101, adventuresinthealps.com). A range of sports stars host various weeks, from triathlon to weight loss. The week-long \"run training clinic\" with Liz Yelling costs \u00a3999, including food and transfers.Rachel Dixon and Gemma Bowes", "tags": ["France holidays", "Lille holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Nouveau riches: what's new in France"},{"date": "2011-03-21T12:58:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "Well, that was fun. Great recommendations for the German leg of our world literature tour, from Frank Sch\u00e4tzing's Der Schwarm \u2013 according to dholliday \"a bit like The Abyss meets SeaQuest DSV meets The Day After Tomorrow ... but far superior, obviously\" \u2013 to Max Knight's translation of Christian Mogenstern, which AS called \"a work of art in itself\", adapting \"both content and rhyme whilst staying true to the wisdom as well as the cheeky charm of the original\".A fascinating discussion, too, about fantasy literature in German, which according to Agelster is \"very samey \u2026 imitating successful British or American authors\" \u2013 a tendency monsterofmiskolc puts down to a Romantic ideal of \"Literature as Serious Art and Vehicle of Self-Expression an Writer as Self-Contained Genius\" \u2013 though marcusspeh would argue it's \"not actually true\". And an invigorating debate about nationhood and identity into the bargain. Werkmeister may well be right that \"Bavaria is more different from Berlin than Austrian culture is from Bavarian culture\" \u2013 though I suspect you'll find that position a little trickier to maintain in Vienna than in Munich \u2013 but despite the complications and convolutions of European history, it seems to me that the brute simplicity of national boundaries give us as good a way of dividing up the world of literature as any.So let's do it again. This week: France. Ah, Voltaire, Dumas, Stendhal, Verlaine, Queneau, Darrieussecq \u2026 it's like pain au chocolat and a caf\u00e9 au lait, like Aznavour and Charles Trenet, like a stroll down the Champs on a summer's day \u2026 but enough of that already. To business.Just there, down below, are those fabulous boxes of technology, which will garner your recommendations, and create, by pure technical wizardry a spreadsheet of combined knowledge \u2013 just like the one we made for Germany. The first box asks for the country concerned \u2013 in this case, France. All we need from you then is a title, an author, maybe a translator \u2013 though great books about France which haven't been translated yet are more than welcome \u2013 and why it's such a great book. And yes, AggieH, we want non-fiction. We even want books written by authors who aren't French which have something to say about French life, French culture. I'm off to recommend Jean-Pierre Ohl's Mr Dick \u2013 it's not what you're thinking \u2013 and Diderot's Jacques le fataliste, mostly because it's funny. But make free with the comments down below as well \u2013 maybe someone can tell me why those Frenchies are so obsessed with all that autofiction ...", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "France"], "title": "World literature tour: France"},{"date": "2011-03-20T21:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "This week the Guardian's New Europe series moves south-west, from Germany to France. Here, we will report from a country that is on the brink of\u00a0election season, with the presidential contest to be held next year. But the\u00a0economy is mired in gloom and doubts linger about the durability of\u00a0its\u00a0much-cherished exception culturelle.Over the next week, in the paper and on the Guardian's website, our correspondents, columnists and critics will write about food, film and finance,\u00a0media, music and multiculturalism. We will explore France's affinity for nuclear power, investigate the strengths of the health system \u2013 and the weakness of education and the jobs-for-life culture.We will hear from numerous French voices as part of this series, which includes live blogs, films and podcasts. There will be interviews with leading French political and cultural figures. In subsequent weeks, our series will move further south, to Spain, before looking east to the biggest new EU country, Poland.Stay with us on this month-long journey. Get to know your neighbours a bit better.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Welcome to France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Champagne might be prohibitively expensive to drink, but it's a great place to visit, with all the major producers used to hosting tours round their cellars. In Epernay, stroll along the recently revamped Avenue de Champagne (termed \"the world's most drinkable address\" by Winston Churchill) and gawp at the 19th-century mansions belonging to the likes of Mo\u00ebt & Chandon (+33 3 2651 2020, moet.com), Mercier, Pol Roger, De Castellane, Perrier-Jou\u00ebt and Boizel. For \u20ac15 you get a tour of Mo\u00ebt's vast, 27km-long cellars and a glass of Mo\u00ebt Brut Imperial.The Rh\u00f4ne Valley is rich in wine, being home to the likes of C\u00f4te-R\u00f4tie and Hermitage in the north and Gigondas and Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape in the south. Do some research on websites such as yapp.co.uk and provencefoodandwine.com beforehand. In the southern Rh\u00f4ne, visit Domaine de Beaurenard in Ch\u00e2teauneuf-du-Pape (+33 4 9083 7179, beaurenard.fr) for a fascinating (and free) no-appointment-necessary tasting in their ancient cellars; and in the northern Rh\u00f4ne visit Maison Chapoutier (+33 4 7508 9261, chapoutier.com) in Tain l'Hermitage for the same. And, if you can wait until January next year, head to Ampuis for the four-day-long Foire d'Ampuis (+33 4 7456 1820), where for \u20ac8 you get a free glass and a chance to meet 60 Rh\u00f4ne producers.Travellers to the city of Bordeaux can find the price of even the most basic glass of wine alarming, so beware. The best place in town to get a decent, well-priced drink is Le Bar \u00e0 Vin (3 cours du 30 Juillet, +33 5 5600 4347, baravin.bordeaux.com). A light, spacious wine bar attached to l'Ecole du Vin (+33 5 5600 2285, vins-bordeaux.fr), it could hardly be more central, being a few hundred yards from the Grand Th\u00e9\u00e2tre. It is also full of information about tours through the region as well as wine courses in l'Ecole itself. Heavily subsidised by the CIVB (the Bordeaux producers' association), it has a wide-ranging selection of local wines by the glass at absurdly accessible prices.There is no shortage of places to stay in and around Bordeaux but, again, these can be pricey. Among the best value are the H\u00f4tel de S\u00e8ze and its sister, the H\u00f4tel Royal M\u00e9doc (rue de S\u00e8ze, +33 5 5681 7242, hotelsezemedoc.free.fr). They are right in the heart of the city and are both much favoured by the English wine trade. They're simple and basic but, with rooms starting from \u20ac60 for a double, they're great value. For something a bit more wacky and out-of-town, try the wonderful treehouses (+33 5 5646 2948, naturacabana.fr) in the grounds of the Ch\u00e2teau de Malleret, 15km from Bordeaux. Prices start from \u20ac145 for three in a cabin.Saumur in the heart of the Loire Valley and its vineyards is within easy distance of the Channel ports. If your budget allows, book into the handsome Hotel Anne d'Anjou (+33 2 4167 3030, hotel-anneanjou.com), where rooms start from \u20ac105 per night. If budget doesn't allow, head for the Ile d'Offard in the middle of the river and the Hostel rue de Verden or its neighbouring campsite, Camping de l'Ile d'Offard (\u20ac16 for a two-person pitch, +33 2 4140 3000, cvtloisirs.com). Enjoy the superb local sparkling wines and honeyed chenin blancs and take a tour (and sample the excellent absinthe) at the tiny Combier distillery (48 rue Beaurepaire, +33 2 41 40 23 00, combier.fr).Alsace is a perfect place for pottering about with its Route de Vin (alsace-route-des-vins.com) easily negotiated by bicycle, so long as you're prepared for the occasional steep hill (you're in the foothills of the Vosges here). The region's medieval towns and villages such as Colmar, Obernai, Ribeauvill\u00e9 and Turckheim are absurdly picturesque with cobbled streets and half-timbered houses. Nearly all producers have free tastings for the public, with no obligation to buy. Park your bike at the foot of the main street in Riquewihr and wander up to the clock tower, taking in the various wine shops en route, perhaps stopping for a plate of choucroute \u00e0 l'Alsacienne. Hugel et Fils (3 rue de la Premi\u00e8re Arm\u00e9e, +33 3 8947 9215, hugel.com) is the best place to start.Gascony is a blessed spot, whose inhabitants, despite enjoying a diet rich in foie gras and confit de canard, boast lower levels of heart disease than anyone else in France and live an average five years longer. They put this down to their wines. Stay at British-owned Domaine de Lauroux (+33 5 6208 5676, lauroux.com), where a g\u00eete for six starts at \u20ac600 per week, and explore the region. Visit Bastide d'Armagnac (labastide-darmagnac.net) with its enchanting square colonnaded central place; Notre-Dame des Cyclistes (notredamedescyclistes.net), a tiny 11th-century chapel where Tour de France competitors come to pray; the exquisite hamlet of Larressingle (and taste its equally exquisite armagnac \u2013 tinyurl.com/6z7yo22); the food market of Eauze and buy foie gras, croustade and armagnac direct from artisan producers. (tourisme-gers.com).Go hiking on Les Calanques, the limestone cliffs with jaw-dropping views that run along the Mediterranean coast between Marseille and Cassis. Scramble down to an isolated cove for a gentle swim and a languorous picnic. Be sure to pack some bottles of Provence's hidden vinous gems in your basket, such as Cassis, Bandol, Palette and Bellet. Cassis itself is a delight, a bustling fishing port with dozens of restaurants, each attempting to outdo the other with their pistou soup and bouillabaisse. Enjoy them with Cassis wine (of which there are only 14 producers), a heady blend of marsanne, clairette and ugni blanc, and not to be confused with the blackcurrant cr\u00e8me de cassis.Corsica might seem a bit off-piste but the wines are increasingly fine (and remain excellent value) and the island itself is a bewitching spot with snow-capped mountains, rugged granite hills, flower-strewn meadows and pristine sandy beaches. Head for the hills around Sart\u00e8ne and seek out the delicate local ros\u00e9s. Or stop at roadside taverns to scoff wild boar salami and figatellu (liver sausage made from the local Corsican black pig), washed down with aromatic, herb-tinged reds made from the strange-sounding nielluccio and sciaccarellu grapes. And if you make it to Cap Corse in the far north, seek out the luscious, lip-smacking dessert muscats, long thought to be the island's crowning glory. Producers to look out for include Domaine Saparale (saparale.com), Domaine Torraccia and Domaine Pieretti (vinpieretti.com).Being in northern France, Montreuil-sur-Mer isn't in wine country at all. It is, though, home to the French outpost of the Wine Society (01438 741177, winesociety.com) and, as such, well worth a visit. Close to both Calais and Boulogne, it is easily accessible from the UK and ideal for a day trip. You can save a minimum \u00a318 a case by buying from here rather than the Wine Society's shop in Stevenage, and with over 200 wines to choose from there's no shortage of choice. A return on Eurotunnel (08443 353535, eurotunnel.com), plus petrol, plus lunch for two, comes to around \u00a390; the saving on buying five cases of wine is \u00a390. Enjoy a day for free in France!", "tags": ["France holidays", "Wine", "Food and drink", "Bordeaux holidays", "Corsica holidays", "Travel", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Budget wine trips in France"},{"date": "2011-01-11T19:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"We don't have a stronger friend and stronger ally than Nicolas Sarkozy, and the French people\" Barack Obama said today. Uh oh. No sooner had he done so than Washington-based British analyst Nile Gardiner rushed to his keyboard to blog for the Daily Telegraph: \"Quite what the French have done to merit this kind of high praise from the US president is difficult to fathom, and if the White House means what it says this represents an extraordinary sea change in US foreign policy.\" Touchy, aren't we?He goes on, outraged: \"To suggest that Paris and not London is Washington's strongest partner is simply ludicrous.\" And finishes, seemingly frothing at the mouth: \"No US president in modern times has described France as America's closest ally, and such a remark is not only factually wrong but also insulting to Britain, not least coming just a few years after the French famously knifed Washington in the back over the war in Iraq.\" Can somebody offer Mr Gardiner an aspirin?Nile, you shouldn't feel so bad, Obama was just being polite. As all presidents hosting foreign heads of state know, you simply cannot escape saying things like: \"Hamid Karzai is a great friend of the United States\" as George W Bush declared many times, or \"Colonel Gaddafi is a great friend of France\" as Sarkozy said when he invited the Libyan dictator to set up his tent with his all-female entourage in the gardens of the Elys\u00e9es in November 2007.Having said that, if you look at it historically, I'm sorry to say that it is factually and emotionally right for the American president to describe France as the US's greatest ally. 3 September 1783, anyone? Lord Cornwallis? General Rochambeau? French may have narrowly missed out on being chosen as the language of the United States, but without France, there'd be no American independence.As \"for knifing Washington in the back over the war in Iraq\", France was only doing the courageous act of warning a dear old friend that they were terribly wrong. Other allies thought no better but to acquiesce.In general, France and the French have a more straightforward relationship to America than their neighbours across the Channel. The idea is that love doesn't have to be servile. A fair amount of criticism is even expected and welcome, it is the sign of an equal and healthy relationship. If the leftist intelligentsia felt it needed to deride America just after the second world war, a majority of the French people embraced American culture.Many American artists and film directors, from Nicholas Ray to the Coen brothers, owe a large part of their world reputation to French film critics. To be a good friend, one has to be independent. That was always the point of view of French presidents from de Gaulle to Chirac. Nicolas Sarkozy is a unique figure in French politics, one who resorts to obsequiousness rather than healthy esprit critique. The truth is that Nicolas Sarkozy wishes he was American. But that's another story...", "tags": ["US news", "France", "US foreign policy", "Barack Obama", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "France, America's special friend | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is called the Emerald coast and bears its name with panache. From Cancale, world capital for oysters, to St Briac, where Renoir loved daydreaming, this stretch of granite rocks and gold sand shelters resorts with everything discerning visitors on a budget could dream of. Among them is Dinard, between St Malo and St Lunaire. There, pitch your tent at the Camping du Port Blanc (rue du Sergent Boulanger, +33 2 9946 1074, camping-port-blanc.com) on the beach, from \u20ac13pp a night, or rent a studio at the charming La Pens\u00e9e in St Lunaire (la-pensee.pagesperso-orange.fr) from \u20ac195 for a week.Among the many things to do in and around Dinard: swim, sail, walk, eat and hunt for antiques. In Dinard and St Lunaire, Point Passion Plage (digue de L'Ecluse, Dinard, +33 2 9988 1520, pointplage.fr) provides kayak, catamaran and windsurf lessons and rentals. You can also purchase a \u20ac92 pass that will give you access to all their activities.Your stay on the Emerald coast wouldn't be complete without a taste of the region's best galettes, such as those of Cr\u00eaperie du Roy (9 boulevard F\u00e9art, Dinard, +33 2 9946 1057). Go for the galette soubise (onions cooked in muscadet) and cr\u00eape pomme maison flamb\u00e9e au calvados \u2013 your palate (and wallet) will be forever grateful.If you want to treat yourself, then veer towards the promenade au Clair de Lune. At the end stands La Gonelle (+33 2 9916 4047, lagonelle.com), a seafood and fish restaurant open from 15 April to 30 September. You can choose your fish from the aquarium; the chef will present it to you on a platter as it breathes its last.There's no need for a car in Dinard. Public transport, such as the bus linking St Briac to St Malo (illenoo-services.fr), or the vedette (boat) taking you to St Malo every half-hour (vedettes-saint-malo.com), are reliable and cheap. You can also rent a bike for the day near Dinard's market (8 rue St Enogat, +33 2 9946 2725, breizhcycles.com) and cycle to the medieval city of Dinan (dinan-tourisme.com). You'll pedal through sunflower fields and old villages and hug the River Rance for a few miles. Dinard will leave you with wonderful and enduring souvenirs.French-born Agn\u00e8s Poirier is a political commentator and film critic based in ParisIn order to do the Marcel Proust tour of Normandy properly, you should ideally be driven by a bisexual chauffeur you're lusting after. If you can't manage that, then hire a convertible two-seater and get your significant other to wear goggles, kinky rubber coat and close-fitting aviator's hat while you shout relevant passages from A la Recherche du Temps Perdu from the passenger seat.Drive first to the Grand H\u00f4tel Cabourg (les jardins du Casino, +33 2 3191 0179, accorhotels.com) on the lovely C\u00f4te Fleurie (Flower Coast). Proust checked into his fourth floor suite here feverish and exhausted in the summer 1907. He wrote: \"\u2026 menaced by the enemies thronging around me, penetrated to the very bones by fever, I was alone and wanted to die\". When I stayed in the Marcel Proust suite with my beloved, by contrast, I couldn't have been happier. I flung open the French windows on to the Promenade de Marcel Proust and rang for the best room service I've ever had \u2013 champagne with confite de daurade aux hu\u00eetres.You could splash out and do the same \u2013 a double room costs from \u20ac165. Or stay at nearby La Raspeli\u00e8re (from \u20ac80 for a double, chambres-hotes-cabourg.fr), and then dine at Le Balbec restaurant below the Grand H\u00f4tel, with its marvellous seasonal seafood menu (three courses from \u20ac56). First, though, have a Proust cocktail (gin, cointreau, orange and cura\u00e7ao bleu) in the Belle Epoque bar while listening to Scott Joplin on the computerised pianola.Next morning follow Proust and the love of his life, chauffeur Albert Agostinelli, on their tour of Norman architecture. They went to Bayeux, not to see the tapestry, but to pay homage to oriental figures in the romanesque part of Bayeux cathedral. They didn't, as far as I can find out, have lunch in Bayeux's restaurants (try La Rapi\u00e8re, off rue St Jean, +33 2 3121 0545, larapiere.net) offering Norman-style cooking. But you should.Rejoin Proust's tour by visiting the abbeys of Jumi\u00e8ges, Saint-Wandrille and Saint-Georges de Bouscheville, perhaps taking tea at the Ch\u00e2teau de Balleroy (chateau-balleroy.com), where Proust savoured Boucher's tapestries.Check into another grand hotel \u2013 the Grand H\u00f4tel de l'Esp\u00e9rance at Lisieux (from \u20ac69 a night, lisieux-hotel.com) and after dinner, get your chauffeur to drive you to the cathedral of St Pierre. It was here that in 1907 Proust studied the facade's foliated tracery, illuminated by Agostinelli's headlamps.The following morning drive towards Illiers, where adolescent Marcel stayed. On the way, you'd be idiotic not to visit Chartres cathedral (chartres-tourisme.com). Illiers itself is a scruffy backwater village transformed into Combray in the novel. Today the house where Proust's Tante L\u00e9onie lived is a little museum (marcelproust.pagesperso-orange.fr). From Illiers, you could drive to Monet's garden at Giverny (\u20ac8, giverny.org/gardens). Proust repeatedly planned to go, but never made it. A shame: given his love of botany and his hypersensitive openness to beauty, he would have adored it.Stuart Jeffries is a feature writer and ex-Paris correspondent for the GuardianThe Loire Valley has to be France's most fran\u00e7ais region. Its people speak the purest French, and it's also at the heart of the country's history \u2013 a fascinating base for a week's touring.The most famous chateau, and justifiably so, is Chenonceau (chenonceau.com) in Indre-et-Loire \u2013 it straddles a lake on a series of arches, and was a gift from King Henri II to his lover Diane de Poitiers, a woman so sexy that the Queen, Catherine de Medici, used to spy on the couple's lovemaking to learn a few tricks. Chenonceau is to chateaux what Monica Bellucci is to cinema. Le Relais de Chenonceaux (+33 2 4723 9811, chenonceaux.com), close to the chateau, has double rooms from \u20ac52, half-board from \u20ac92.To the south-west, across vineyard-covered countryside stands the hilltop Ch\u00e2teau de Chinon (visit-loire.com/cities-loire/chinon). You can stand in the very room where Joan of Arc performed a \"miracle\" in 1429. To test her divine inspiration, Prince Charles (no, not that one) hid in disguise among his courtiers. Unerringly, Joan picked him out. Miraculous, until you realise that the knock-kneed, squinty-eyed prince was one of the most recognisable men in France.A great-value day out is a rent-a-bike ride along the Loire riverbanks from the medieval Ch\u00e2teau de Blois (chateaudeblois.fr): Tra\u00eeneurs de Loire (traineursdeloire.com) rent out bikes for \u20ac13 a day from several locations along the river.In the evenings, the region is the perfect place for a gourmet feast. In the old centre of Saumur, Auberge Saint-Pierre (6 place Saint-Pierre, auberge-saintpierre.com) has traditional regional cuisine at reasonable prices, such as boeuf bourguignon for \u20ac11.50.And if I taste a wine I like at dinner, I ask the restaurateur for the grower's address, then drop by next day to stock up at wholesale prices. Chinon blanc sec, for example, is a golden drink that inspires descriptions like \"harmonious\", \"fruity\" and \"generous with its charms\" \u2013 very much like this part of France itself.Stephen Clarke, author of A Year in the Merde (Black Swan, \u00a37.99). His new book, Paris Revealed, is out on 31 MarchThe first time I travelled down to France's south-west corner, it was to investigate the region's separatist movement, Iparetarrak (IK), a more amateurish and considerably less violent version of Eta. For many years, IK was secretly applauded by those Parisians lucky enough to own houses along that pristine stretch of Atlantic coastline. Twenty years on, the revolutionaries that fed IK have retired and development along the coastline has mushroomed. New-builds have sprung up on the hills, and traffic jams along the coast's route nationale are the norm.There is one place, however, that has not changed. Gu\u00e9thary is a small fishing village nestled between the chichi seaside towns of Biarritz and Saint Jean-de-Luz. It is also one of Europe's more confidential surf spots and so it has been contaminated or preserved, depending on your point of view, by a certain alternative vibe that seems to co-exist quite nicely with the well-heeled Parisian families who have been holidaying there since the 60s.The village is sliced in two by the route nationale, so you'll want to make sure you're staying on the right side of it. Head straight to the Hotel Madrid (+33 5 5926 5212, lemadrid.com) in the heart of the village. Here the sound of the ocean rubs out the distant rumble of traffic. Unaltered since the turn of the last century when Paul Klee stayed here and sat with Kandinsky on its windswept terrace overlooking the sea, Le Madrid is still a simple, family hotel with five pretty rooms, from \u20ac59 a night, and a good restaurant.Gu\u00e9thary is one of those magical places to which people return faithfully all their lives. My own children would play for hours on its vast fronton (court), theoretically for pelota but more often for impromptu football, or rollerskating, or teenage flirting or, at night, dances and fireworks or Basque games (shows of strength).In the morning, you might walk down to one of Gu\u00e9thary's three beaches: la Plage du Centre to mess around in the rockpools and eat chipirones (tiny squid) or gambas a la plancha (grilled shrimp) at Kostaldea, a little place right on the beach. Or there are the wilder beaches of Les Alcyons or Cenitz, where you can lie on the white sand or body-surf in the big waves. Later, while the children play outside you can be in the Bar Basque opposite the Madrid, drinking sangria and watching the sunset.Lucy Wadham is the author of The Secret Life of France (Faber, \u00a37.99)With a unique Franco-German character, Alsace offers stunning mountainous scenery, gorgeous villages, fascinating museums and wonderful wines. My ideal itinerary around the region kicks off high up in the Vosges mountains. The wonderful little eco-hotel Villa Rosa (rue Thierry Schoerem, +33 3 8949 8119, villarosa.fr) in Trois-Epis, near the town of Colmar, is the perfect place to relax. It has eight comfortable rooms costing from \u20ac63 per night, and its owner, Anne-Rose, creates wonderful meals with the vegetables, herbs and flowers from her garden (\u20ac26 for three courses).After winding down for a day or two next to the solar-heated pool or taking walks from the hotel, I'll jump in the hire car for some thrilling drives through the mountains. The hairpin bends aren't for the faint-hearted, and the roads' steep hills are a popular challenge for cyclists. My destination is the nearby village of Turckheim. Like my other favourite villages, Eguisheim and Riquewihr, Turckheim has wonderful narrow streets rambling through colourful timber-framed houses with window boxes in full bloom. My stroll will also have me sniffing out one of Turckheim's wineries where I'll sample the local riesling and gew\u00fcrztraminer.Not far from Turckheim is the imposing Ch\u00e2teau du Haut-Koenigsbourg (haut-koenigsbourg.fr). Sitting high over the vineyard-lined valley, the castle dates from the 12th century and offers incredible views across to the Black Forest in Germany. After a poke around its battlements, I'll carry on to Colmar, a gorgeous little town in the heart of Alsace. Lunch is at the characterful restaurant Maison Rouge (9, rue des Ecoles, Colmar, +33 3 8923 5322), where I'll tuck into a salad of the local Munster cheese, or a delicious tarte flamb\u00e9e, before walking it off along the canal in the area known as Petite Venise (Little Venice).Carolyn Boyd is editor of France magazine (francemag.com) Beneath Tiepolo skies, it's a gentle amble through shimmering cognac vines down to the Charente river for a dip in the calm waters. Such is the idyllic nature of summer days in the Charente, second-sunniest corner of France, after the Riviera.The riverside town of Cognac has for four centuries been the home of cognac-making, now a booming export trade, not least among the American rapper fraternity where it's known as \"yak\". In the courtyard restaurant of the quirkily decorated but comfortable Hotel Heritage (25, rue d'Angoul\u00eame, +33 5 4582 0126, hheritage.com, doubles \u20ac70) or in the smartly cosy Le Bistro de Claude (35 rue Grande, +33 5 4582 6032, bistro-de-claude.com) the spirit Victor Hugo dubbed \"the liquor of the gods\" is served in tulip glasses to stop aromas escaping.Most cognac houses \u2013 such as Hennessy, Martell and R\u00e9my Martin \u2013 offer visits and tastings. But Baron Otard (baronotard.com) has the advantage of being in the Ch\u00e2teau de Cognac so the tour takes in Renaissance halls designed by Leonardo da Vinci and plunges into a fungi-draped dungeon, the \"paradise cellar\", where cognacs from centuries past are stored.For sustenance of the soul, the nearby thousand-year-old Abbey of Bassac (+33 5 4581 9422, abbayebassac.com) has a tangible spirituality and visitors are welcome to stroll in the near-silent gardens. Within the same tiny village there's a choice of two good restaurants, L'Essille (rue de Conde, +33 5 4581 9413, hotel-restaurant-essille.com) and L'Auberge de Cond\u00e9 (, doubles \u20ac35, rue Rixendis Loriches, +33 5 4583 0967, auberge-de-conde.net).But for an insight into contemporary French culture, head to Angoul\u00eame, historic home of papermaking and capital of the comic book. On a ramble through the hilly Charente capital you'll spot some of the 20 or so giant-scale cartoon scenes painted on to the sides of buildings by top comic strip artists.Lennox Morrison is an author and journalist based in ParisThe prehistoric Lascaux caves, Bergerac, and Sarlat are the famous sites of the Dordogne region of Aquitaine, but in the bit I know well I've found many surprising treasures. Make a base in the pretty village of Sainte Alv\u00e8re, such as the sweet Roquebrune en P\u00e9rigord (+33 5 5361 2418, roquebrune-perigord.com, \u20ac75 for two), where you will be tempted to spend a week scoffing saucisson, truffles and foie gras from the weekly market (the rotisserie chicken van is amazing). Go dancing one night with local farmers, families and dreadlocked hippies at La Guinguette de Neufonds, a fun restaurant beside a lake (where you can swim) near Vergt, that has a cheap buffet with live music ranging from Gypsy jazz to local ska-punk.My top day trips are as follows. A wonderful chateau with an interesting backstory is Ch\u00e2teau des Milandes (milandes.com) in Castelnaud-la-Chapelle, once the home of Josephine Baker, the African American who became an exotic dancer in Paris in the 20s. She also spied for the French resistance, was a major player in the American civil rights movement and the Angelina Jolie of her day, adopting children from around the world. Look out for the gorgeous art deco bathrooms modelled on perfume bottles and her famous banana skirt. Another day drive to Limeuil, where the Dordogne and V\u00e9z\u00e8re rivers meet and you can go for a high-speed float in the strong currents, or kayak. Further away, on the coast, the incredible Dune du Pyla is Europe's biggest sand dune, and if you're in the area in May, the Bergerac jazz festival (jazzpourpre.com) is excellent.Gemma Bowes, acting travel editor of the GuardianProvence and the C\u00f4te d'Azur don't take kindly to budgets, but experiencing the region on the cheap is possible. I'd head to N\u00eemes (just over the border in Languedoc-Roussillon), preferably between 8-13 June for the F\u00e9ria (viva-la-feria.com), and either buy a ticket for the bullfighting at the Roman arena of Les Ar\u00e8nes (4 rue de la Violette, arenesdenimes.com) or settle for some gardiane, a bull casserole. I'd sleep at the excellent N\u00eemes youth hostel (\u20ac35 for a double, +33 4 6668 0320, hinimes.com).On to Arles and the fascinating Van Gogh walking tour (+33 4 9018 4120, arlestourisme.com) then, bellyful of bull finally digested \u2013 it won't go down without a fight \u2013 I'll have pizza at Chez N\u00e9n\u00e9 et B\u00e9b\u00e9 (12 impasses du Forum, +33 4 9093 4949, tinyurl.com/5sg57fg).I'd like to hit Avignon for its festival from 6-26 July (+33 4 9027 6650, festival- avignon.com) and to eat at Au Tout Petit (\u20ac25 for three courses, 4 rue d'Amphoux, +33 4 9082 3886, autoutpetit.fr), which serves good value, inventive dishes.Last stop, Aix-en-Provence, and I'd stretch the budget to stay at Le Manoir (\u20ac67 for a double room, 8 rue d'Entrecasteaux, +33 4 4226 2720, hotelmanoir.com), set in an historic house with a beautiful courtyard and 14th-century cloister.Neil McQuillian is a travel writer for Rough GuidesIt is easy to find the Languedoc. Just follow the Rh\u00f4ne river, and when you hit the southern French coast, instead of turning left to head to St Tropez or Provence, head right towards Spain. The region stretches over 16,000 square miles.Your first major stop is B\u00e9ziers, a city that seems almost more Spanish than French. It was a Cathar stronghold in medieval times and the site of a horrendous massacre in 1209 when crusaders besieged the city. The worst bloodshed took place in the cathedral, which you should visit, if only for the views across the city and the Orb. Then you have two choices for lunch; either the best wine-bar in the region, Le Chameau Ivre (15 place Jean Jaur\u00e8s, +33 4 6780 2020, tinyurl.com/5s93d5t), or a charming restaurant called Le Petit Monmartre (+33 4 6728 5654, lepetitmontmartre.net) in the elegant Place de la Madeleine. Stay at the H\u00f4tel des Po\u00e8tes, overlooking the park (80 all\u00e9es Paul Riquet, +33 4 67 76 38 66, hoteldespoetes.net).Next stop is the Etang de Bages, just outside Narbonne. You can walk along the wooden walkways over the water, or simply along the coastal paths, admiring the nature and the pink flamingoes. If you're hungry there is no nicer place to eat than the restaurant Le Portanel (pas de Portanel, +33 4 6842 8166, leportanel.fr).From there it is a short drive to Spain, but please don't miss Collioure (collioure.com), just before the border, a favourite haunt of the fauvist artists and famous for its anchovies.Helena Frith Powell is the author of Love in a Warm Climate (Gibson Square, \u00a38.99)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Dordogne holidays", "Provence holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Pyrenees holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel"], "title": "Classic France: the insiders' guide"},{"date": "2011-03-21T08:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "To understand what literary life in France is like, imagine a pond. A pond that's getting smaller and smaller, with just as many fish in it, so that the water is getting more and more crowded. You can guess what happens: each one has less and less space to evolve, to find food, and even to develop the energy required to discuss ideas. Sales of books continue to be weak in 2011, after a particularly flat year for publishers and bookshops. Apart from the usual juggernauts, such as titles from the bestselling authors Mark L\u00e9vy and Am\u00e9lie Nothomb, and more sporadic successes such as the latest novel from Michel Houellebecq (winner of the Prix Goncourt in November last year), most novels and essays struggle to make any money.Yet the landscape certainly doesn't lack variety: for the past 30 years the French have benefited from a law setting a single book price, which has\u00a0made it possible to preserve diversity on the publishing scene. Rather than being flattened by concentration, many small publishers still do remarkable work, alongside the larger houses. As a result, a multiplicity of tastes can happily continue to be met, with tiny publishing houses often taking on translation projects or\u00a0the publication of complete works. In contrast to the early 90s, when lots of small publishers were going bankrupt, publishing today is no longer a\u00a0graveyard.Some smaller enterprises have been taken over by larger ones, but without necessarily losing their identity. So M\u00e9taili\u00e9 and L'Olivier were bought up by Le Seuil, while POL, Verticales and Jo\u00eblle Losfeld were bought by Gallimard. At a time when publishing companies, as well as the press, are losing their independence all over the world, Gallimard is celebrating its centenary as an independent company, and is in a state of health that would make many younger houses green with envy. The fact remains that the market is tightening relentlessly. As elsewhere, one can witness an increasing polarisation in sales, with the gap widening between titles that \"take off\", often the most mainstream ones, and all the others, notably midlist titles, whose sales have been completely squashed.This polarisation is reflected in the way the press talks about books. In newspapers the space devoted to literature is now relatively stable after a dramatic decline over the past 10 years. As a result, critics struggle to cover the full range of books produced, caught between the need to\u00a0talk about what everyone else is talking about, the\u00a0need to\u00a0explore types of literature that almost no one is talking about and the wish to get themselves talked about by\u00a0taking up increasingly clear-cut positions.In these circumstances, what happens to the discussion of ideas? It\u00a0is still alive with regard to the big questions that run through society (political, religious, social, historical, and so on). According to the philosopher and novelist Bernard-Henri L\u00e9vy,\u00a0the French situation is unusual in that, instead of being permanently fixed, \"intellectual groups re-form around each issue like iron filings around a magnet\", a situation which has become more marked in the last 20 years. In January 2011 the \"affaire C\u00e9line\" shook the cultural world. The\u00a0writer Louis-Ferdinand C\u00e9line, who wrote some truly great books and also some violently anti-semitic tracts, was included in the calendar of national commemorations, to mark\u00a0the 50th anniversary of his death. His presence in this official brochure provoked such a furore that the minister of culture eventually backed down and removed C\u00e9line.In the purely literary domain, on the other hand, debate is less lively. The controversies that arose when autobiographical fiction, or \"autofiction\", began to establish itself, thanks to writers such as Serge Doubrovsky (who invented the term), then Christine Angot and Camille Laurens, have more or less subsided. The publication, in January this year, of Angot's latest novel, Les petits (Flammarion), caused hardly any debate, as if the critics had got used to this type of writing and to the dangers it can bring.Indeed, \"autofiction\", which introduces a character sharing the same name as the author, in situations which are more or less fictitious, has an almost incestuous relationship with the real world. As a result, this bold genre, which has given French literature some of its most interesting books in the last few years, is not neutral \u2013 and this is undoubtedly one\u00a0of its strengths. However, autofiction no longer sparks the same passions as it did 10 years ago. In the case of Angot's latest, which has not had the anticipated impact on readers, it has taken a lawsuit to rouse the literary world from its torpor: one brought by the ex-girlfriend of the man Angot shares her life with, and from whom the writer drew inspiration in her book.Another lawsuit has drawn attention to a book by the prominent author R\u00e9gis Jauffret a year after its publication: in S\u00e9v\u00e8re, published by Seuil in January 2010, Jauffret was clearly inspired by the Stern affair (the\u00a0assassination of a rich banker by his mistress, in the course of sado-masochistic games), without ever naming the real protagonists. The novel was received reasonably well by critics and had some moderate success in bookshops. But several months later, when faced with the prospect of a film adaptation, Edouard Stern's family become concerned and\u00a0attacked the author. The latter found immediate support from about 20 writers and intellectuals who signed a petition on his behalf, launched at the instigation of the magazine La R\u00e8gle du jeu.The new generation of writers seems not to worry unduly about these questions. Writers such as Yannick Haenel, Maylis de K\u00e9rangal and Delphine Coulin are making a name for themselves without belonging to any school: reworking plots when it suits them, using fiction or autofiction in their own ways, and inventing new forms when they can. And that's all to the good.1 Indignez vous! (Cry out!) by St\u00e9phane Hessel (former diplomat's plea for outrage from French people at the state of their nation)2 La carte et le territoire by Michel Houellebecq (Goncourt winner)3 Les \u00e9cureuils de Central Park sont tristes le lundi by Katherine Pancol (New York-based novel)4 M\u00e9tronome: L'histoire de France au rythme du m\u00e9tro parisien by Lorant Deutsch (history)5 La m\u00e9thode Dukan illustr\u00e9e by Pierre Dukan (illustrated diet plan)Total 2010 book sales 464.5m", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture", "Fiction"], "title": "What they're reading in France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T06:30:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "In the past 60 years, two major choices have shaped French foreign policy while pulling France and the UK apart: the European project begun after the second world war and built in accordance with Jean Monnet's conception,; and national independence, as sought by Charles de Gaulle after his return to power in 1958. These two paths were contradictory, the first only comprehensible because France, having twice nearly perished during the first part of the 20th century, had such profound doubts about itself that it chose to make Europe a substitute for the nation. The UK, however, could not come to terms with having to fade within a \"supranational\" Europe.This view was shared by De Gaulle: the general did not believe in supranationality, but he did want to build a \"Europe of nations\". Beyond this, he defined his objective as the emergence of a \"European Europe\" \u2013 agent of its own destiny. This was a bitter pill to swallow for the UK, which was attached to its special relationship with the US.Today, the crisis of the euro reflects the impasse reached by supranational Europe. The French project of burying German reunification within a federal Europe \u2013 the idea behind the Maastricht treaty \u2013 ended long ago. And curiously, it is this moment which President Sarkozy has chosen for France to rejoin Nato, under the bizarre pretext of facilitating the emergence of \"European defence\".French diplomacy thus has a double hangover. Germany has dragged Europe, or in any case the eurozone, into a bidding war of economic rigour leading to a historical dead end. France does not dare to challenge Angela Merkel's policy, because it is reluctant to question the rules of the game accepted by Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand when they were set out, back when he thought he could modify them when the right moment presented itself. They have now proven to be inadequate and impossible to change in substance: thanks to the rules imposed by Maastricht, the European central bank does not believe it has the authority to intervene in debt markets in order to smash speculation and save the euro. The currency is doomed \u2013 it is smothering every economy in Europe, except Germany's. Floating between the dollar and the Chinese yuan, we are, in effect, caught in the jaws of the G2, or \"Chinamerica\".This is all the more worrying because, in addition, French diplomacy has recently followed in the wake of US diplomacy. But the US is less and less concerned about Europe; it is increasingly turned towards the Pacific and China. While French diplomacy has lost its bearings, it could find them anew if it returned to De Gaulle's Europe of nations, whose vocation is to exist between the US and China. Is this the path laid out by the Anglo-French agreements of November 2010? It is too early to say, however desirable the prospect may be. Relations with Barack Obama are no longer a bone of contention between the two countries. The UK is seeking to influence the US by remaining close to it, France is pursuing the same objective by opposite means: independence, but within an alliance. And as for Nato? Yes, but only on the condition that we do not compromise our influence in Arab countries.In recent weeks, the US has only allowed France and the UK a hand in Libya, nothing more. Our two long-lived nations must, together, represent the aims of the US leadership while also taking care to work within a frame of legality in an international context, keeping the protection of civilians in mind. We must respect the democratic will currently expressed by the Arab world, and gather a maximum number of Arab, African and developing countries around a strategy which should only seek to establish the conditions of self-determination for the Libyan people. This is how we will, together, best prepare the future of a great democratic Europe of the nations \u2013 one stretching from the Mediterranean to Russia.The UK has to consider its future with Europe. Our two nations could help set Europe back on her feet. We could do Europe this service at the same time as we do it for ourselves.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "World news", "Politics", "Nato", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "France and Britain \u2013 a new special relationship | Jean-Pierre Chev\u00e8nement"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "The Auvergne is located smack in the centre of France, with a stunning national park that features extinct volcanoes, deep glacial lakes and old-fashioned spa towns. In the sleepy rural village of Muret, you can discover a homely B&B like the Maison de Muret \u2013 it's just \u20ac54 a night for a double, and the owners put on an incredible feast at night, beginning with a glass of Gentiane (a local aperitif of mountain herbs), hearty dishes like homemade sausages with truffade (creamy potatoes), Cantal cheese fresh from the neighbouring farm, and a tarte aux myrtilles \u2013 all for a grand total of \u20ac17 a head, wine and coffee included.\u2022 Maison de Muret, Muret, Thi\u00e9zac, +33\u00a04 7147 5123, maisondemuret.comAlthough the seafood and fish are out of this world in Brittany, restaurants don't tend to be cheap in the picture-postcard fishing villages. But this is also the world's capital of cr\u00eapes, and for a genuine locals' address check out the Cr\u00eaperie Amzer Zo in the tiny port of Kerity. Amzer 'zo is Breton for \"no hurry\", and its sunny terrace is perfect for a lazy lunch of delicious buckwheat cr\u00eapes stuffed with everything from tasty andouille sausage to ham and eggs. Finish off with a cr\u00eape au chocolat, forget the wine and order a bowl of cider, and the bill still won't come to much more than \u20ac10.\u2022 Cr\u00eaperie Amzer Zo, 31 quai Charles de\u00a0Gaulle, Kerity, Penmarc'h, +33 2 9858 8545Whether it is for gourmet food or fine wines, there are few regions in France that can compare with Burgundy. Saulieu has a strong claim to be the gastronomic capital of the region, and if you don't want to splash out at the three-star Michelin Relais Bernard Loiseau, then check in almost next door at the surprising Borne Imperiale. A comfy double room looking out over beautifully landscaped gardens costs \u20ac45-60, and the genial chef, Jean Berteau, prepares a tempting three-course terroir menu of escargots \u00e0 la bourguignonne, a succulent jambon a l'os, slowly braised with wild mushrooms, and a sinful mousse au chocolat, priced at \u20ac24.50.\u2022 Relais Bernard Loiseau, 2 rue d'Argentine, Saulieu, +33 3 8090 5353, bernard-loiseau.com; Borne Imperiale, 6 rue d'Argentine, +33 3 8064 1976, borne-imperiale.comOyster-lovers are spoilt for choice when travelling around the French coast, but for the perfect mix of stunning natural landscapes and the finest sp\u00e9ciales and fines de claire oysters, it is difficult to beat the Bassin d'Arcachon. Bernard Delis, known locally as Monsieur des Huitres, opens up his cabane on the jetty of Port de Larros each summer, and for just \u20ac8 he shucks a dozen of his oysters, while a chilled bottle of wine from the nearby Entre-deux-Mers vineyards will set you back another \u20ac7. Stay at a B&B in the village, such as Clos Saint-Michel, which offers doubles at \u20ac55.\u2022 Bernard Delis, Port de Larros, Cabane 81, +33 6 1460 5493, etablissement-b-delis.com; Clos Saint-Michel, 54 rue Edmond Daubric, Gujan Mestras, +33 5\u00a05666 4329, clossaintmichel.frThe Sud-Ouest is all about serious eating, from confit de canard, a hearty cassoulet or foie gras to the delicious Basque speciality piquillos \u2013 red peppers stuffed with stockfish, a type of dried fish. Alain Dutournier is acclaimed as an ambassador of this region's cuisine, with a two-star Michelin dining room and two other restaurants in Paris. He recommends a visit to Pouillon, just outside the town of Dax, to L'Auberge du Pas de Vent, where acclaimed young chef Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Dubern sticks to traditions with a \u20ac22.50 Menu Gascon, which features beef terrine, slowly roasted duck and a \"nose-to-tail\" pork dish for adventurous diners.\u2022 L'Auberge du Pas de Vent, 281 avenue Pas de Vent, Pouillon, +33 5 5898 3465, auberge-dupasdevent.comGuy Martin is the celebrated chef of the legendary Parisian restaurant Le Grand Vefour, and his cooking always reflects his Alpine roots. What few people know is that he is also partner in a down-to-earth diner, Le Trianon, hidden away in the ski resort and spa town of Allevard, where prices range at lunch from just \u20ac9 for a dish of the day to \u20ac15 for a three-course set meal. Although the menu features classic Savoyard fondue and raclette, Martin's influence means there are also gourmet options like a tempting duck shepherd's pie with pumpkin and the local Beaufort cheese.\u2022 Le Trianon, avenue des Bains, Parc des Thermes, Allevard, +33 4 7671 9617, letrianon-allevard.frAlsace surprises the visitor, not just with the strange Germanic dialect and\u00a0its colourful half-timbered gingerbread houses clustered in tiny villages surrounded by rolling vine-clad\u00a0hills, but also with some of the country's finest cuisine. Alsatian foie gras rivals that of the Dordogne, while the locals prefer their pungent Munster\u00a0cheese sprinkled with cumin seeds to camembert or brie. Walk into the homely winstub (bistro) L'Agneau d'Or in Obernai and you're spoilt for choice between a steaming plate of choucroute\u00a0topped with sausages, chops, bacon and black pudding, for\u00a0\u20ac17, or a three-course regional menu\u00a0at \u20ac24.\u2022 L'Agneau d'Or, 99 rue du General Gouraud, Obernai, +33 3 8895 2822Is it possible to find anywhere reasonably priced to eat on the ritzy Riviera? Well, steer clear of the celeb haunts of St Tropez, Cannes and Juan-les-Pins and there are some surprising discoveries hidden away along the Mediterranean coastline. Le Rayol Canadel is worth a detour just for its breathtaking tropical gardens. Le Maurin des Maures, nearby, is a local institution, with a sunny terrace overlooking the sea and a \u20ac13.50 three-course menu offering soupe de poisson, delicious grilled sardines and profiteroles smothered with hot chocolate sauce. To stay the night in the town, check out Villa Louise, which has doubles from \u20ac75.\u2022 Le Maurin des Maures, avenue du Touring Club, Le Rayol Canadel, +33 4 9405 6011, maurin-des-maures.com; Villa Louise, 21 corniche de la Louve, +33 4 9405 5284, tinyurl.com/6gb5tdcThe old-fashioned village bistrot is still alive and well across Provence, perfect for a Pastis at dusk when the locals are playing p\u00e9tanque, and ideal for sampling distinctive Proven\u00e7al cuisine without paying a fortune. In picturesque Opp\u00e8de, the Caf\u00e9 des Poulivets has a plat du jour at just \u20ac9 \u2013 try to come on Friday when a wonderful garlicky a\u00efoli is served, following the recipe of the owner's grandmother. This cafe is just one of an excellent selection of cheap and cheerful restaurants across Provence that feature on bistrotdepays.com, which has many addresses to track down and is more fun than the stuffy Michelin Guide.\u2022 Caf\u00e9 des Poulivets, Opp\u00e8de, +33 4 9005 8831, cafedespoulivets.com", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Brittany holidays", "Provence holidays"], "title": "Budget bourguignon: cheap eats in France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "A collection of high-quality accommodation in France that particularly welcomes gay and lesbian travellers has been launched by Further Afield (07932 755515, furtherafield.com). Par example, La Petite Maison is a romantic river village cottage that sleeps two, with an eclectic collection of furniture, in the Loire, near Treves. It's run by Sue and Micaela who are obsessed with wine, and can arrange local tastings and trips. It costs from \u20ac330 for a weekend.If budget isn't a problem, the place to stay this year is the Ch\u00e2teau de la Goujeonnerie (07879 640858, lestroisgarcons.com/chateau, sleeps 54, from \u00a319,500 per week or \u00a39,000 for a long weekend), run by the people behind London's hip cocktail bar Loungelover and Les Trois Garcons restaurant. Located in the Vend\u00e9e, it is the definition of fairytale, with \"floating\" towers on the corners of the chateau and flamboyant interiors featuring unicorn taxidermy and chandeliers. Seven doubles and three singles are available in the chateau, plus a further 15 doubles and two singles in outbuildings. It's a vast party pad, with drawing rooms, a library, steam room, gym and bar, plus a heated outdoor pool in the grounds, reached by strolling through a forest. The property is let as a whole, catered or not.Just outside Lille, the LAM (musee-lam.fr) modern art museum has reopened after a major extension by Manuelle Gautrand, in a park of sculptures in Villeneuve d'Ascq. It features more than 4,500 works. While in town, you should also take a trip out to Roubaix, where an art deco swimming pool (with the water still in it) has been turned into a gallery, Roubaix La Piscine (+33 3 2069 2360, roubaix-lapiscine.com), with sculptures arranged where once dive-bombers scuttled, and a lovely garden overlooked by a terrace cafe.Imagine pedalling through fields of sunflowers with the wind in your hair and a baguette in your basket. Now check out Freewheeling France (freewheelingfrance.com), a new English-language website that tells you everything you need to know about arranging a cycling holiday. There's help for independent tourers as well as package travellers. If you've got a question they haven't already answered, fellow cyclists will help you out on the message boards.Alsace (tourism-alsace.com) looks set to be a popular destination this year after BMI (flybmi.com) and Swiss (swiss.com) announced new flights from Heathrow and Manchester to Basel-Mulhouse in the south of the region. The route will start operating on 27 March, with both airlines' prices starting around \u00a389 return (\u00a393 from Manchester). Easyjet (easyjet.com) began flying to the same airport from Edinburgh in December, while the train takes around six and a half hours from London, with returns from \u00a3190 (Eurostar to Paris then TGV to Basel, raileurope.co.uk). Alsace may well become the next big place for foodies, with the most Michelin-starred restaurants in France outside of Paris.For the first time, the position of 400 ski resorts across the Alpine countries, including France, has been marked on a map that shows the Alpine rail routes. More than 120 resorts are directly accessible by train, making it easy to arrange an independent trip to these as well as smaller, lesser known resorts. Order from Roger Lascelles (01255 870595, rogerlascellesmaps.co.uk). A folded map is \u00a38.95, a wall\u00a0map \u00a311.Travel writer Bev Fearis has launched G\u00eetes Guebernez (+33 2 9739 4325, gitesatguebernez.com), two charming new g\u00eetes in central Brittany with her partner Warren (an interiors photographer \u2013 so it's guaranteed to look good, plus his landscape photography decorates the interiors and is available to buy). La Grande sleeps 6-9 people, and Le Pressoir sleeps 2-4. For kids, there's a large lawn for games, a pool table, table tennis, boules, a rope swing, treasure hunts, board games and a dressing-up box, plus a library. You can enjoy a three-course meal for \u20ac11 including wine at the local restaurant, Chez Marie-Th\u00e9 (+33 2 9739 4382) in the village of Ploerdut.It pays to book \u2013 and go \u2013 early if you fancy a self-catering break in France. Pierre & Vacances (0870 026 7145, pierreetvacances.co.uk) has 25% off early summer short breaks, with prices starting at \u20ac25pp a night. You need to book before 22 April for a trip before mid-July. Holidays include a spa break in Normandy (from \u20ac585) and a weekend in La Rochelle (from \u20ac340), plus lots of family-friendly properties.The former house of the poet and artist Jean Cocteau, in Milly-La-For\u00eat near Paris (+33 1 6498 1150, jeancocteau.net), has been turned into a museum, with 500 paintings, drawings and other art works decorating his rooms, along with leopard print wallpaper and erotic knick-knacks. You can also visit his grave in the same village at the St Blaise chapel, inside which is one of his frescoes.Increase your fitness while being motivated by your sports hero. The likes of Olympians Sally Gunnell, Liz Yelling and Sharron Davies lead a choice of sports retreats in La Clusaz, in the Aravis valley, with Adventures in the Alps (0845 519 3101, adventuresinthealps.com). A range of sports stars host various weeks, from triathlon to weight loss. The week-long \"run training clinic\" with Liz Yelling costs \u00a3999, including food and transfers.Rachel Dixon and Gemma Bowes", "tags": ["France holidays", "Lille holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Nouveau riches: what's new in France"},{"date": "2011-03-26T00:05:38Z", "country": "france", "content": "This is a truly beautiful park. Pick up its own little train from the M\u00e9tro station Porte Maillot. There are a huge range of attractions, but these were our favourites: the aviary \u2013 the mynah bird repeated our Brummie \"hello!\", the huge flower showers in the water park and the carousel horses that move along a track \u2013 just like in Mary Poppins! Take your own picnic though, as the cafe is busy and overpriced. Entry \u20ac2.90, rides \u20ac2.70; +33 1 4067 9082, jardindacclimatation.fr Becky1501La Mer de SableJust a 45-minute drive from the centre of the city, La Mer de Sable is a great escape. Built on an incredible geological site \u2013 a perfectly natural expanse of sand \u2013 it was France's first themepark when it opened in 1954 but has truly survived the test of time. The best bit? No queues, cheap prices and free parking.From \u20ac14.50 adult/child; Ermenonville, Exit 7 on the A1, +33 3 4462 3131, merdesable.frlamilooParc FloralLast summer in early July my 11-year-old son and I spent a week in Paris. An unexpected highlight was the Parc Floral on a hot sunny day with water lillies to astound and impress even a pre-teen \u2013 with not another tourist in sight.Entry free; M\u00e9tro Ch\u00e2teau de Vincennes, +33 1 4957 2484, parcfloraldeparis.comCypress52Caves of Aven ArmandThree years on, our granddaughter (now 11) has not forgotten her visit to this spectacular cave, home to the world's largest known stalagmite which, throughout its 30 metres, sparkles like a diamond. You descend into the cave, more than 100m underground, by a funicular railway. Enthusiastic and knowledgeable guides take you through a forest of more than 400 stalagmites. It is a vast fairytale cave capable of containing the entire cathedral of Notre Dame in Paris.\u20ac9.10 adult, \u20ac6.20 child; +33 4 6645 6131, aven-armand.comLilyannaParc St PaulBetween Dieppe and Paris, this lovely family themepark is a welcome stopover if you want to break a long journey. It provides entertainment for the whole family (lots of different rides) and unlike its bigger rivals, there are no queues and you can have a barbecue on one of the park's 40 grills. The prices are reasonable and the food is excellent. A grand day out.Open from 9 April, \u20ac16 adult, \u20ac14 child; +33 3 4482 2016; parcsaintpaul.frOtherpParc Ast\u00e9rixI recommend Parc Ast\u00e9rix on the outskirts of Paris. It was the best park we visited in France. My family (two adults, three teenagers) thought it was brilliant \u2013 a great selection of rides that covered four different time zones in Ast\u00e9rix's adventures. The rides vary from gentle to the terrifying (with lots of choice in between) and there lots of shows and animations too. The cafes are good, and there are shady places for picnics as well. It was quite easy to walk around \u2013 not too huge. We used Tesco vouchers for advance entry, which helped our holiday budget, and have been twice now (2007 and 2009). For us it was a good couple of days on the end of our holiday, but it could make a good mini-break if you live in the south of England.Open from 9 April, \u20ac39 adult, \u20ac29 child (3-11 years); +33 826 301040, parcasterix.frOnlinerPuy du FouFor a really different day, this historical themepark is in the Vend\u00e9e and easy to get to from the coast or from Paris. There is just so much to see and do, including a Viking long boat, a huge gladiator battle, dancing falcons and a battle of the keep re-enactment. The highlight is the Cin\u00e9sc\u00e9nie show each evening, which features more than 1,000 actors and hundreds of fireworks. We loved it, even though everything was in French and it rained from the moment we got there until the moment we left.\u20ac44 adult, \u20ac26 child, including Cin\u00e9sc\u00e9nie; +33 2 5164 2594, puydufou.comElberryParc-en-CielIn this large wooded park in Lot-et-Garonne, the main attraction is the treetop adventure \u2013 it's similar to the UK's Go Ape. There are different grades for the trails, so everyone in the family can take part. One of the highlights is the superb and very long zipwire finish, which takes you from the treetops right down over the park. Good clear instructions are given (in English) and there are guides positioned around the course to help out. Highly recommended for an active and fun day out in beautiful surroundings.\u20ac20 adult, from \u20ac12.50 child; +33 5 5371 8458, parc-en-ciel.comVdunneAqualandAs far as I know, British weather doesn't really allow us to have outdoor waterparks like Aqualand but it's worth heading to the continent just for them. In particular, Aqualand St Cyr-sur-Mer is a great way to spend a hot summer's day if you want to be away from the chaos of Med beaches. There are rapids, pools of all sorts for over excited kids but also a great cr\u00eaperie and espace d\u00e9tente where parents can rest.\u20ac25 adult, \u20ac18.50 child (3-12 years); +33 4 6821 4949, aqualand.frOtherp", "tags": ["France holidays", "Family holidays", "Paris holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' tips: family attractions in France"},{"date": "2011-06-28T23:47:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "As things stand, and the elections are a year away, a socialist is set to become the next president of France. Barring a dramatic comeback by Nicolas Sarkozy, and barring another midair explosion of the sort that knocked Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the skies, a France disillusioned with the quixotic and divisive leadership of the incumbent will turn to the centre-left for a calmer head and a safer pair of hands. If anything, the disaster which befell Lionel Jospin, the socialist candidate in 2002 who was knocked out in the first round by the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen, is more likely to recur on the right, as Mr Sarkozy suffers at the hands of Le Pen's cleverly rebranded daughter Marine. The big if in all this is whether the left can unite around a candidate with the ability to broadcast over the full bandwidth of politics.The two frontrunners for the socialist nomination are the former party leader Fran\u00e7ois Hollande \u2013 now thinner, less pally with journalists and more presidential \u2013 and his successor Martine Aubry, who launched her bid to become France's first woman president yesterday. There are differences between the two. Mr Hollande is more likely to attract votes from the centre-right. Indeed, the 78-year-old former president Jacques Chirac sent a Taser electroshock through the nervous system of the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace by saying he would vote for Mr Hollande next year. Mr Hollande brushed it off as a joke. Mr Sarkozy did not. The incident showed how vulnerable he is from both flanks, the far and centre-right.Ms Aubry, on the other hand, has greater appeal to the left as a whole. In 2008 she inherited the leadership of a party that was profoundly divided. She has since managed to knit together a party of polar opposites, the leftwing partisans of Laurent Fabius and those of Mr Strauss-Kahn. So that today she counts among her supporters not only key figures of the left but Strauss-Kahnians like Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis. She and Mr Hollande also differ on France's nuclear future. Ms Aubry has followed Germany's lead on this issue and is more likely to appeal to the greens.Both candidates are vulnerable to attack. A former labour minister best known for creating the 35-hour week, Ms Aubry has her work cut\u00a0out convincing those who run small businesses that France's future lies in more control, not less of it. Nothing will stop S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, Hollande's former wife, from entertaining the illusion that she can succeed in 2012 where she failed in 2007, and she may split the centre-left still further. In a Europe that has turned en bloc to the right, France is living up to its role as a land apart. The presidential contest of 2012 will not disappoint.", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "France", "Europe", "French elections 2012"], "title": "France: Socialist sunrise | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-28T23:47:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "As things stand, and the elections are a year away, a socialist is set to become the next president of France. Barring a dramatic comeback by Nicolas Sarkozy, and barring another midair explosion of the sort that knocked Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the skies, a France disillusioned with the quixotic and divisive leadership of the incumbent will turn to the centre-left for a calmer head and a safer pair of hands. If anything, the disaster which befell Lionel Jospin, the socialist candidate in 2002 who was knocked out in the first round by the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen, is more likely to recur on the right, as Mr Sarkozy suffers at the hands of Le Pen's cleverly rebranded daughter Marine. The big if in all this is whether the left can unite around a candidate with the ability to broadcast over the full bandwidth of politics.The two frontrunners for the socialist nomination are the former party leader Fran\u00e7ois Hollande \u2013 now thinner, less pally with journalists and more presidential \u2013 and his successor Martine Aubry, who launched her bid to become France's first woman president yesterday. There are differences between the two. Mr Hollande is more likely to attract votes from the centre-right. Indeed, the 78-year-old former president Jacques Chirac sent a Taser electroshock through the nervous system of the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace by saying he would vote for Mr Hollande next year. Mr Hollande brushed it off as a joke. Mr Sarkozy did not. The incident showed how vulnerable he is from both flanks, the far and centre-right.Ms Aubry, on the other hand, has greater appeal to the left as a whole. In 2008 she inherited the leadership of a party that was profoundly divided. She has since managed to knit together a party of polar opposites, the leftwing partisans of Laurent Fabius and those of Mr Strauss-Kahn. So that today she counts among her supporters not only key figures of the left but Strauss-Kahnians like Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis. She and Mr Hollande also differ on France's nuclear future. Ms Aubry has followed Germany's lead on this issue and is more likely to appeal to the greens.Both candidates are vulnerable to attack. A former labour minister best known for creating the 35-hour week, Ms Aubry has her work cut\u00a0out convincing those who run small businesses that France's future lies in more control, not less of it. Nothing will stop S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, Hollande's former wife, from entertaining the illusion that she can succeed in 2012 where she failed in 2007, and she may split the centre-left still further. In a Europe that has turned en bloc to the right, France is living up to its role as a land apart. The presidential contest of 2012 will not disappoint.", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "France", "Europe", "French elections 2012"], "title": "France: Socialist sunrise | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-10T03:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you have happy memories of childhood holidays spent camping in France, then the modern holiday parcs throughout the country are sure to please your own brood. These days, tents are just one of many kinds of accommodation \u2013 you can now take your pick from Gypsy caravans, tree houses and safari tents, as well as the traditional tents and mobile homes. With great facilities on the sites, there's no better reason to pack up the car, cruise across the Channel and enjoy a camping holiday.The prices were correct at the time of going to press; availability for late July and August may be limited at some campsitesAt the Domaine de Dienn\u00e9, tents and mobile homes are a thing of the past. Here, you can choose between colourful Gypsy caravans or star-gazing cabins complete with telescope, star-chart and a perspex ceiling. No need to come back down to earth for the activities on site either, with a tree-top adventure course and \"fun-trambo\" (a cross between bungee-jumping and trampolining), those with a sense of adventure are well catered for. For a futuristic day out, the excellent Futuroscope theme park is just 20 miles away. Meanwhile, those who would rather take it easy will appreciate the fresh bread and croissants delivered to the door each morning, and enjoy the pretty surrounding countryside. \u2022 +33 5 49 45 87 63, domaine-de-dienne.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights, including a Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3663 for a family of four starting August 20Vend\u00e9e, one of the best areas in France for a family holiday, is just four hours' drive from the ferry ports of Saint-Malo and Cherbourg and this peaceful site is within easy reach of the area's best attractions. From the gorgeous beaches at Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie and Les Sables d'Olonne, to the magnificent historical Puy de Fou theme park, children of all ages will adore a holiday here. The picturesque Camping La Garangeoire is set among lakes, meadows and woods and offers a host of activities, including crazy golf, trampolines and boating on the lake. \u2022 + 33 2 51 46 65 39, camping-la-garangeoire.com. Seven nights in July for two adults and up to four children staying in a three-bedroom Villagrand Deluxe mobile home costs from \u00a31,100, accommodation only. Ferry crossings or fly-drive packages can be arranged at a supplement through Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk)This peaceful lakeside site is ideal for \"tweenies\" and teenagers who can safely roam the 84-acre resort independently and enjoy activities such as mini-golf, cycling, karting and archery. There are also four pools and waterslides. The site itself offers a choice of tents, mobile homes or \u2013 for real camping softies \u2013 luxury log cabins complete with dishwashers and flatscreen TVs. The site is ideally situated for trips into Paris, just 90 minutes away by coach, or to Disneyland Paris, while the Chateau de Pierrefonds, the setting for the BBC TV series Merlin, is just a short drive away. \u2022 + 33 3 23 55 50 02, la-croix-du-vieux-pont.com; a seven-night stay in a holiday home sleeping up to six costs from \u20ac810-960 in the summer holidays. Also available through Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) If your kids are fans of fairy stories, then why not take them to the land of fantasy castles? This rural campsite is on the doorstep of one of the Loire's most magnificent ch\u00e2teaux, Ch\u00e2teau de Chambord. With a water park, tennis court and mini-golf to occupy the children, mum can practise her Sleeping Beauty routine at the small on-site spa. Accommodation comes in the shape of tents and mobile homes, while the tree houses provide the perfect abode for your own little Hansels and Gretels. \u2022 + 33 2 54 87 05 42, camping-des-marais.com. Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk) offers seven nights from 17 August for two adults and two children in a supertent, with Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3790 The Dordogne has long been a favourite destination for family holidays, and this picturesque parc is close to the River Dordogne, the medieval town of Sarlat and the cliff-top Chateau Beynac. The site's restaurant, reception, shop and bar are housed in beautiful golden stone Perigordin buildings, and many pitches enjoy beautiful views of the surrounding countryside. Parents can get some personal space in the Mezzanine mobile homes, which come with a separate children's play room above the main living area. There are both indoor and outdoor swimming pool complexes, waterslides and evening entertainment. \u2022 +33 5 53 02 64 00, saint-avit-loisirs.com. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers seven nights in luxury tent from 16 August for \u00a3759 (sleeps up to six), accommodation onlyThis relatively undiscovered area of France is a haven for foodies and the on-site restaurant at Camping Val de Cantobre doesn't disappoint. It is set in a beautifully converted mill, with lovely oak beams, serves a variety of local dishes and is popular with locals. The small and popular site is surrounded by spectacular scenery, making it perfect for those with a spirit of adventure; activities on offer include canyoning, rock-climbing and horse-riding. There are also four swimming pools on site and both tents and mobile homes are available. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights in a Classic two-bedroom mobile home from 1 July for \u00a3648, including P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing. Seven nights in a Maxi Tent from 20 August costs \u00a3777At this beachside site on the south coast of Brittany, there's something for all the family; mum and dad can use the spa and well equipped gym, while the kids can enjoy the large covered pool, waterslides, play areas and children's club in July and August. The nearest beach is ideal for poking around in rock pools and the town \u2013 with its large beach, bars and restaurants \u2013 is a 15-minute walk away. To top it all, the site is set in a beautiful area of France and has lovely views across the bay. \u2022 + 33 2 98 57 05 37, escale-stgilles.fr. Matthews Holidays (01483 284044, matthewsfrance.co.uk) offers seven nights from \u00a3756 to \u00a3967 per family in the summer holidays, including midweek Dover-Calais ferry crossing for two adults and up to three children\u00a0If the thought of a long car journey fills you with dread, then this large and lively campsite is the one for you. Just 22 miles from the ferry port of Saint-Malo, it is set in the grounds of a chateau, and has a fantastic choice of accommodation. Thatched woodland lodges and treehouses are available as well as the usual tents and mobile homes. There is a riding school on site and the fantastic water park includes an indoor pool and slides, making it ideal for children of all ages. \u2022 + 33 2 99 73 53 00, lesormes.co.uk. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven-nights in a Maxi Tent for two adults and all children, including return off-peak P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3930 in mid-August or \u00a3734 from 25 AugustFor a taste of Provencal village life, head to this small site in the foothills of the Massif des Maures in the Var department. Activities on offer include boules, tennis, football and volleyball, and there are two swimming pools with water slides. Half an hour away are the beaches of Fr\u00e9jus, Saint-Rapha\u00ebl and Saint Aygulf, while Saint-Tropez, Grasse, Cannes and the spectacular Gorge du Verdon are all about an hour's drive away. The sunnier climes of the Riviera lend themselves to outdoor living and Eurocamp's luxurious safari tents, complete with comfy beds, wooden deck and equipped kitchen, allow you to do so in style. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers a seven-night stay from 23 August for \u00a3604.80 per family in a Safari Tent (sleeps up to 6 people, maximum 4 adults), accommodation onlyPerched on the edge of Lake Biscarrosse with its gentle sloping beach, La R\u00e9serve offers a wide choice of water sports including waterskiing, sailing and canoeing. There is a variety of mobile homes on offer, and the site has bars, a restaurant, a take-away and gas-fired barbecues to use. The surrounding area offers wide, sweeping beaches on the Aquitaine coast 13 miles away, and the jaw-dropping Dune de Pyla (the highest dune in Europe) is a little further north. Foodies and wine lovers can enjoy the oysters on offer at Arcachon and the wineries of Saint-Emilion and in Bordeaux. \u2022 + 33 5 58 09 74 79. Siblu (0871 911 7777, siblu.com) offers seven nights in a two-bedroom Esprit holiday home from 17 July from \u00a3873.30 (sleeps up to six) Carolyn Boyd is editor of France Magazine", "tags": ["France holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Provence holidays", "Top 10s", "Summer holidays"], "title": "Family camping in France"},{"date": "2011-06-28T23:47:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "As things stand, and the elections are a year away, a socialist is set to become the next president of France. Barring a dramatic comeback by Nicolas Sarkozy, and barring another midair explosion of the sort that knocked Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the skies, a France disillusioned with the quixotic and divisive leadership of the incumbent will turn to the centre-left for a calmer head and a safer pair of hands. If anything, the disaster which befell Lionel Jospin, the socialist candidate in 2002 who was knocked out in the first round by the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen, is more likely to recur on the right, as Mr Sarkozy suffers at the hands of Le Pen's cleverly rebranded daughter Marine. The big if in all this is whether the left can unite around a candidate with the ability to broadcast over the full bandwidth of politics.The two frontrunners for the socialist nomination are the former party leader Fran\u00e7ois Hollande \u2013 now thinner, less pally with journalists and more presidential \u2013 and his successor Martine Aubry, who launched her bid to become France's first woman president yesterday. There are differences between the two. Mr Hollande is more likely to attract votes from the centre-right. Indeed, the 78-year-old former president Jacques Chirac sent a Taser electroshock through the nervous system of the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace by saying he would vote for Mr Hollande next year. Mr Hollande brushed it off as a joke. Mr Sarkozy did not. The incident showed how vulnerable he is from both flanks, the far and centre-right.Ms Aubry, on the other hand, has greater appeal to the left as a whole. In 2008 she inherited the leadership of a party that was profoundly divided. She has since managed to knit together a party of polar opposites, the leftwing partisans of Laurent Fabius and those of Mr Strauss-Kahn. So that today she counts among her supporters not only key figures of the left but Strauss-Kahnians like Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis. She and Mr Hollande also differ on France's nuclear future. Ms Aubry has followed Germany's lead on this issue and is more likely to appeal to the greens.Both candidates are vulnerable to attack. A former labour minister best known for creating the 35-hour week, Ms Aubry has her work cut\u00a0out convincing those who run small businesses that France's future lies in more control, not less of it. Nothing will stop S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, Hollande's former wife, from entertaining the illusion that she can succeed in 2012 where she failed in 2007, and she may split the centre-left still further. In a Europe that has turned en bloc to the right, France is living up to its role as a land apart. The presidential contest of 2012 will not disappoint.", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "France", "Europe", "French elections 2012"], "title": "France: Socialist sunrise | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-10T03:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you have happy memories of childhood holidays spent camping in France, then the modern holiday parcs throughout the country are sure to please your own brood. These days, tents are just one of many kinds of accommodation \u2013 you can now take your pick from Gypsy caravans, tree houses and safari tents, as well as the traditional tents and mobile homes. With great facilities on the sites, there's no better reason to pack up the car, cruise across the Channel and enjoy a camping holiday.The prices were correct at the time of going to press; availability for late July and August may be limited at some campsitesAt the Domaine de Dienn\u00e9, tents and mobile homes are a thing of the past. Here, you can choose between colourful Gypsy caravans or star-gazing cabins complete with telescope, star-chart and a perspex ceiling. No need to come back down to earth for the activities on site either, with a tree-top adventure course and \"fun-trambo\" (a cross between bungee-jumping and trampolining), those with a sense of adventure are well catered for. For a futuristic day out, the excellent Futuroscope theme park is just 20 miles away. Meanwhile, those who would rather take it easy will appreciate the fresh bread and croissants delivered to the door each morning, and enjoy the pretty surrounding countryside. \u2022 +33 5 49 45 87 63, domaine-de-dienne.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights, including a Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3663 for a family of four starting August 20Vend\u00e9e, one of the best areas in France for a family holiday, is just four hours' drive from the ferry ports of Saint-Malo and Cherbourg and this peaceful site is within easy reach of the area's best attractions. From the gorgeous beaches at Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie and Les Sables d'Olonne, to the magnificent historical Puy de Fou theme park, children of all ages will adore a holiday here. The picturesque Camping La Garangeoire is set among lakes, meadows and woods and offers a host of activities, including crazy golf, trampolines and boating on the lake. \u2022 + 33 2 51 46 65 39, camping-la-garangeoire.com. Seven nights in July for two adults and up to four children staying in a three-bedroom Villagrand Deluxe mobile home costs from \u00a31,100, accommodation only. Ferry crossings or fly-drive packages can be arranged at a supplement through Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk)This peaceful lakeside site is ideal for \"tweenies\" and teenagers who can safely roam the 84-acre resort independently and enjoy activities such as mini-golf, cycling, karting and archery. There are also four pools and waterslides. The site itself offers a choice of tents, mobile homes or \u2013 for real camping softies \u2013 luxury log cabins complete with dishwashers and flatscreen TVs. The site is ideally situated for trips into Paris, just 90 minutes away by coach, or to Disneyland Paris, while the Chateau de Pierrefonds, the setting for the BBC TV series Merlin, is just a short drive away. \u2022 + 33 3 23 55 50 02, la-croix-du-vieux-pont.com; a seven-night stay in a holiday home sleeping up to six costs from \u20ac810-960 in the summer holidays. Also available through Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) If your kids are fans of fairy stories, then why not take them to the land of fantasy castles? This rural campsite is on the doorstep of one of the Loire's most magnificent ch\u00e2teaux, Ch\u00e2teau de Chambord. With a water park, tennis court and mini-golf to occupy the children, mum can practise her Sleeping Beauty routine at the small on-site spa. Accommodation comes in the shape of tents and mobile homes, while the tree houses provide the perfect abode for your own little Hansels and Gretels. \u2022 + 33 2 54 87 05 42, camping-des-marais.com. Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk) offers seven nights from 17 August for two adults and two children in a supertent, with Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3790 The Dordogne has long been a favourite destination for family holidays, and this picturesque parc is close to the River Dordogne, the medieval town of Sarlat and the cliff-top Chateau Beynac. The site's restaurant, reception, shop and bar are housed in beautiful golden stone Perigordin buildings, and many pitches enjoy beautiful views of the surrounding countryside. Parents can get some personal space in the Mezzanine mobile homes, which come with a separate children's play room above the main living area. There are both indoor and outdoor swimming pool complexes, waterslides and evening entertainment. \u2022 +33 5 53 02 64 00, saint-avit-loisirs.com. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers seven nights in luxury tent from 16 August for \u00a3759 (sleeps up to six), accommodation onlyThis relatively undiscovered area of France is a haven for foodies and the on-site restaurant at Camping Val de Cantobre doesn't disappoint. It is set in a beautifully converted mill, with lovely oak beams, serves a variety of local dishes and is popular with locals. The small and popular site is surrounded by spectacular scenery, making it perfect for those with a spirit of adventure; activities on offer include canyoning, rock-climbing and horse-riding. There are also four swimming pools on site and both tents and mobile homes are available. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights in a Classic two-bedroom mobile home from 1 July for \u00a3648, including P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing. Seven nights in a Maxi Tent from 20 August costs \u00a3777At this beachside site on the south coast of Brittany, there's something for all the family; mum and dad can use the spa and well equipped gym, while the kids can enjoy the large covered pool, waterslides, play areas and children's club in July and August. The nearest beach is ideal for poking around in rock pools and the town \u2013 with its large beach, bars and restaurants \u2013 is a 15-minute walk away. To top it all, the site is set in a beautiful area of France and has lovely views across the bay. \u2022 + 33 2 98 57 05 37, escale-stgilles.fr. Matthews Holidays (01483 284044, matthewsfrance.co.uk) offers seven nights from \u00a3756 to \u00a3967 per family in the summer holidays, including midweek Dover-Calais ferry crossing for two adults and up to three children\u00a0If the thought of a long car journey fills you with dread, then this large and lively campsite is the one for you. Just 22 miles from the ferry port of Saint-Malo, it is set in the grounds of a chateau, and has a fantastic choice of accommodation. Thatched woodland lodges and treehouses are available as well as the usual tents and mobile homes. There is a riding school on site and the fantastic water park includes an indoor pool and slides, making it ideal for children of all ages. \u2022 + 33 2 99 73 53 00, lesormes.co.uk. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven-nights in a Maxi Tent for two adults and all children, including return off-peak P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3930 in mid-August or \u00a3734 from 25 AugustFor a taste of Provencal village life, head to this small site in the foothills of the Massif des Maures in the Var department. Activities on offer include boules, tennis, football and volleyball, and there are two swimming pools with water slides. Half an hour away are the beaches of Fr\u00e9jus, Saint-Rapha\u00ebl and Saint Aygulf, while Saint-Tropez, Grasse, Cannes and the spectacular Gorge du Verdon are all about an hour's drive away. The sunnier climes of the Riviera lend themselves to outdoor living and Eurocamp's luxurious safari tents, complete with comfy beds, wooden deck and equipped kitchen, allow you to do so in style. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers a seven-night stay from 23 August for \u00a3604.80 per family in a Safari Tent (sleeps up to 6 people, maximum 4 adults), accommodation onlyPerched on the edge of Lake Biscarrosse with its gentle sloping beach, La R\u00e9serve offers a wide choice of water sports including waterskiing, sailing and canoeing. There is a variety of mobile homes on offer, and the site has bars, a restaurant, a take-away and gas-fired barbecues to use. The surrounding area offers wide, sweeping beaches on the Aquitaine coast 13 miles away, and the jaw-dropping Dune de Pyla (the highest dune in Europe) is a little further north. Foodies and wine lovers can enjoy the oysters on offer at Arcachon and the wineries of Saint-Emilion and in Bordeaux. \u2022 + 33 5 58 09 74 79. Siblu (0871 911 7777, siblu.com) offers seven nights in a two-bedroom Esprit holiday home from 17 July from \u00a3873.30 (sleeps up to six) Carolyn Boyd is editor of France Magazine", "tags": ["France holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Provence holidays", "Top 10s", "Summer holidays"], "title": "Family camping in France"},{"date": "2011-04-25T17:23:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those who followed the adventures of Antoine Doinel (played by Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud) in a series of lyrical and semi-autobiographical films directed by Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut \u2013 incorporating adolescence, marriage, fatherhood and divorce \u2013 will know that Doinel's first and (perhaps) last love, Colette Tazzi, was played by the stunningly beautiful Marie-France Pisier, who has been found dead aged 66 in the swimming pool of her house near Toulon, in southern France.Doinel and audiences first caught sight of Pisier in Antoine et Colette, Truffaut's enchanting 32-minute contribution to the omnibus film L'Amour \u00e0 Vingt Ans (Love at Twenty, 1962), during a concert at the Salle Pleyel in Paris of Hector Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique. She is conscious of Antoine's stares, and pulls down her skirt. We soon realise that Colette is going to break Antoine's heart.L\u00e9aud and Pisier were born in the same month and were both 18 when they appeared in the film. Pisier was discovered by a casting director, who had been instructed by Truffaut that: \"Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud's partner must be a real young girl, not a Lolita, not a biker type, nor a little woman. She must be fresh and cheerful. Not too sexy.\"Colette, who treats Antoine like a \"buddy\", much to his frustration, runs into him again briefly in Baisers Vol\u00e9s (Stolen Kisses, 1968) and, finally, in the last film of the series, L'Amour en Fuite (Love On the Run, 1979), which she co-wrote. By then Colette was a lawyer, divorced like Antoine, but far more emotionally mature. The film contained what Truffaut called \"real flashbacks\", when we see the differences between Pisier in her screen debut and Pisier 17 years and more than 20 films later, when she was midway through a prestigious career. She worked with such auteurs as Luis Bu\u00f1uel, Jacques Rivette and Ra\u00fal Ruiz, appearing in quality French mainstream movies, with a short and unhappy detour to Hollywood.Pisier was born in French Indochina, now Vietnam, where her father served as colonial governor. She moved to Paris with her family when she was 12. While starting out in films, she completed degrees in jurisprudence and political science at Paris University.After she had appeared in several mediocre genre films, including thrillers directed by the actor Robert Hossein, Pisier's career took a more interesting turn. In 1974, she appeared in the most outrageous and amusing sequence in Bu\u00f1uel's penultimate film, Le Fant\u00f4me de la Libert\u00e9 (The Phantom of Liberty), where she is among the elegant guests seated on individual lavatories around a table from which they excuse themselves to go and eat in a little room behind a locked door. In the same year, in C\u00e9line et Julie Vont en Bateau (C\u00e9line and Julie Go Boating), Rivette's brilliantly allusive comic meditation on the nature of fiction, she and Bulle Ogier act out, in a stylised and exquisite manner, a creaky melodrama in a mysterious house.Pisier was cast by the director Andr\u00e9 T\u00e9chin\u00e9 in several of his early films, including Barocco (1976), for which she won a C\u00e9sar award for her supporting role as a prostitute with a baby in tow. She later played Charlotte Bront\u00eb, alongside Isabelle Adjani (as Emily) and Isabelle Huppert (as Anne) in T\u00e9chin\u00e9's Les Soeurs Bront\u00eb (1979).Her performance as a frivolous, neurotic wife in Jean-Charles Tacchella's Cousin Cousine (1975), a hit in the US, led to her starring role in The Other Side of Midnight (1977), a Hollywood soap opera in which she almost overcame the cliches as a naive French girl who, betrayed by an American pilot, begins to use men for their money and power.But subsequently, apart from French Postcards (1979), in which, according to the critic Roger Ebert, \"Marie-France Pisier, her jet-black hair framing her startling red lipstick, is the kind of dark Gallic woman-of-a-certain-age who knocks your socks off\", she was little seen in English-language movies. Among the rare exceptions was Chanel Solitaire (1981), in which she portrayed the designer Coco Chanel with her usual elegance. She made a splendid Madame Verdurin in Ruiz's Proust adaptation, Le Temps Retrouv\u00e9 (Time Regained, 1999), and was ethereal in the same director's magical Combat d'Amour en Songe (2000). More recently, she was an iconic presence in Christophe Honor\u00e9's homage to the French new wave, Dans Paris (2006). Pisier also directed two films, Le Bal du Gouverneur (The Governor's Party, 1990), starring Kristin Scott Thomas and adapted from Pisier's own novel about some of her childhood spent in New Caledonia in the Pacific, and Comme un Avion (Like an Airplane, 2002), a family drama based on the death of her own parents.Pisier was an outspoken defender of women's rights and legal abortion. She overcame breast cancer in the 1990s. Her first husband was the lawyer Georges Kiejman, with whom she had a son. She is survived by her second husband, Thierry Funck-Brentano, a businessman; her brother, Gilles; and her sister, Evelyne.\u2022 Marie-France Pisier, actor, writer, director, born 10 May 1944; died 24 April 2011", "tags": ["Film", "France", "Culture", "Europe", "Books"], "title": "Marie-France Pisier obituary"},{"date": "2011-06-28T23:47:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "As things stand, and the elections are a year away, a socialist is set to become the next president of France. Barring a dramatic comeback by Nicolas Sarkozy, and barring another midair explosion of the sort that knocked Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the skies, a France disillusioned with the quixotic and divisive leadership of the incumbent will turn to the centre-left for a calmer head and a safer pair of hands. If anything, the disaster which befell Lionel Jospin, the socialist candidate in 2002 who was knocked out in the first round by the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen, is more likely to recur on the right, as Mr Sarkozy suffers at the hands of Le Pen's cleverly rebranded daughter Marine. The big if in all this is whether the left can unite around a candidate with the ability to broadcast over the full bandwidth of politics.The two frontrunners for the socialist nomination are the former party leader Fran\u00e7ois Hollande \u2013 now thinner, less pally with journalists and more presidential \u2013 and his successor Martine Aubry, who launched her bid to become France's first woman president yesterday. There are differences between the two. Mr Hollande is more likely to attract votes from the centre-right. Indeed, the 78-year-old former president Jacques Chirac sent a Taser electroshock through the nervous system of the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace by saying he would vote for Mr Hollande next year. Mr Hollande brushed it off as a joke. Mr Sarkozy did not. The incident showed how vulnerable he is from both flanks, the far and centre-right.Ms Aubry, on the other hand, has greater appeal to the left as a whole. In 2008 she inherited the leadership of a party that was profoundly divided. She has since managed to knit together a party of polar opposites, the leftwing partisans of Laurent Fabius and those of Mr Strauss-Kahn. So that today she counts among her supporters not only key figures of the left but Strauss-Kahnians like Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis. She and Mr Hollande also differ on France's nuclear future. Ms Aubry has followed Germany's lead on this issue and is more likely to appeal to the greens.Both candidates are vulnerable to attack. A former labour minister best known for creating the 35-hour week, Ms Aubry has her work cut\u00a0out convincing those who run small businesses that France's future lies in more control, not less of it. Nothing will stop S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, Hollande's former wife, from entertaining the illusion that she can succeed in 2012 where she failed in 2007, and she may split the centre-left still further. In a Europe that has turned en bloc to the right, France is living up to its role as a land apart. The presidential contest of 2012 will not disappoint.", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "France", "Europe", "French elections 2012"], "title": "France: Socialist sunrise | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-10T03:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you have happy memories of childhood holidays spent camping in France, then the modern holiday parcs throughout the country are sure to please your own brood. These days, tents are just one of many kinds of accommodation \u2013 you can now take your pick from Gypsy caravans, tree houses and safari tents, as well as the traditional tents and mobile homes. With great facilities on the sites, there's no better reason to pack up the car, cruise across the Channel and enjoy a camping holiday.The prices were correct at the time of going to press; availability for late July and August may be limited at some campsitesAt the Domaine de Dienn\u00e9, tents and mobile homes are a thing of the past. Here, you can choose between colourful Gypsy caravans or star-gazing cabins complete with telescope, star-chart and a perspex ceiling. No need to come back down to earth for the activities on site either, with a tree-top adventure course and \"fun-trambo\" (a cross between bungee-jumping and trampolining), those with a sense of adventure are well catered for. For a futuristic day out, the excellent Futuroscope theme park is just 20 miles away. Meanwhile, those who would rather take it easy will appreciate the fresh bread and croissants delivered to the door each morning, and enjoy the pretty surrounding countryside. \u2022 +33 5 49 45 87 63, domaine-de-dienne.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights, including a Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3663 for a family of four starting August 20Vend\u00e9e, one of the best areas in France for a family holiday, is just four hours' drive from the ferry ports of Saint-Malo and Cherbourg and this peaceful site is within easy reach of the area's best attractions. From the gorgeous beaches at Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie and Les Sables d'Olonne, to the magnificent historical Puy de Fou theme park, children of all ages will adore a holiday here. The picturesque Camping La Garangeoire is set among lakes, meadows and woods and offers a host of activities, including crazy golf, trampolines and boating on the lake. \u2022 + 33 2 51 46 65 39, camping-la-garangeoire.com. Seven nights in July for two adults and up to four children staying in a three-bedroom Villagrand Deluxe mobile home costs from \u00a31,100, accommodation only. Ferry crossings or fly-drive packages can be arranged at a supplement through Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk)This peaceful lakeside site is ideal for \"tweenies\" and teenagers who can safely roam the 84-acre resort independently and enjoy activities such as mini-golf, cycling, karting and archery. There are also four pools and waterslides. The site itself offers a choice of tents, mobile homes or \u2013 for real camping softies \u2013 luxury log cabins complete with dishwashers and flatscreen TVs. The site is ideally situated for trips into Paris, just 90 minutes away by coach, or to Disneyland Paris, while the Chateau de Pierrefonds, the setting for the BBC TV series Merlin, is just a short drive away. \u2022 + 33 3 23 55 50 02, la-croix-du-vieux-pont.com; a seven-night stay in a holiday home sleeping up to six costs from \u20ac810-960 in the summer holidays. Also available through Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) If your kids are fans of fairy stories, then why not take them to the land of fantasy castles? This rural campsite is on the doorstep of one of the Loire's most magnificent ch\u00e2teaux, Ch\u00e2teau de Chambord. With a water park, tennis court and mini-golf to occupy the children, mum can practise her Sleeping Beauty routine at the small on-site spa. Accommodation comes in the shape of tents and mobile homes, while the tree houses provide the perfect abode for your own little Hansels and Gretels. \u2022 + 33 2 54 87 05 42, camping-des-marais.com. Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk) offers seven nights from 17 August for two adults and two children in a supertent, with Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3790 The Dordogne has long been a favourite destination for family holidays, and this picturesque parc is close to the River Dordogne, the medieval town of Sarlat and the cliff-top Chateau Beynac. The site's restaurant, reception, shop and bar are housed in beautiful golden stone Perigordin buildings, and many pitches enjoy beautiful views of the surrounding countryside. Parents can get some personal space in the Mezzanine mobile homes, which come with a separate children's play room above the main living area. There are both indoor and outdoor swimming pool complexes, waterslides and evening entertainment. \u2022 +33 5 53 02 64 00, saint-avit-loisirs.com. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers seven nights in luxury tent from 16 August for \u00a3759 (sleeps up to six), accommodation onlyThis relatively undiscovered area of France is a haven for foodies and the on-site restaurant at Camping Val de Cantobre doesn't disappoint. It is set in a beautifully converted mill, with lovely oak beams, serves a variety of local dishes and is popular with locals. The small and popular site is surrounded by spectacular scenery, making it perfect for those with a spirit of adventure; activities on offer include canyoning, rock-climbing and horse-riding. There are also four swimming pools on site and both tents and mobile homes are available. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights in a Classic two-bedroom mobile home from 1 July for \u00a3648, including P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing. Seven nights in a Maxi Tent from 20 August costs \u00a3777At this beachside site on the south coast of Brittany, there's something for all the family; mum and dad can use the spa and well equipped gym, while the kids can enjoy the large covered pool, waterslides, play areas and children's club in July and August. The nearest beach is ideal for poking around in rock pools and the town \u2013 with its large beach, bars and restaurants \u2013 is a 15-minute walk away. To top it all, the site is set in a beautiful area of France and has lovely views across the bay. \u2022 + 33 2 98 57 05 37, escale-stgilles.fr. Matthews Holidays (01483 284044, matthewsfrance.co.uk) offers seven nights from \u00a3756 to \u00a3967 per family in the summer holidays, including midweek Dover-Calais ferry crossing for two adults and up to three children\u00a0If the thought of a long car journey fills you with dread, then this large and lively campsite is the one for you. Just 22 miles from the ferry port of Saint-Malo, it is set in the grounds of a chateau, and has a fantastic choice of accommodation. Thatched woodland lodges and treehouses are available as well as the usual tents and mobile homes. There is a riding school on site and the fantastic water park includes an indoor pool and slides, making it ideal for children of all ages. \u2022 + 33 2 99 73 53 00, lesormes.co.uk. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven-nights in a Maxi Tent for two adults and all children, including return off-peak P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3930 in mid-August or \u00a3734 from 25 AugustFor a taste of Provencal village life, head to this small site in the foothills of the Massif des Maures in the Var department. Activities on offer include boules, tennis, football and volleyball, and there are two swimming pools with water slides. Half an hour away are the beaches of Fr\u00e9jus, Saint-Rapha\u00ebl and Saint Aygulf, while Saint-Tropez, Grasse, Cannes and the spectacular Gorge du Verdon are all about an hour's drive away. The sunnier climes of the Riviera lend themselves to outdoor living and Eurocamp's luxurious safari tents, complete with comfy beds, wooden deck and equipped kitchen, allow you to do so in style. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers a seven-night stay from 23 August for \u00a3604.80 per family in a Safari Tent (sleeps up to 6 people, maximum 4 adults), accommodation onlyPerched on the edge of Lake Biscarrosse with its gentle sloping beach, La R\u00e9serve offers a wide choice of water sports including waterskiing, sailing and canoeing. There is a variety of mobile homes on offer, and the site has bars, a restaurant, a take-away and gas-fired barbecues to use. The surrounding area offers wide, sweeping beaches on the Aquitaine coast 13 miles away, and the jaw-dropping Dune de Pyla (the highest dune in Europe) is a little further north. Foodies and wine lovers can enjoy the oysters on offer at Arcachon and the wineries of Saint-Emilion and in Bordeaux. \u2022 + 33 5 58 09 74 79. Siblu (0871 911 7777, siblu.com) offers seven nights in a two-bedroom Esprit holiday home from 17 July from \u00a3873.30 (sleeps up to six) Carolyn Boyd is editor of France Magazine", "tags": ["France holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Provence holidays", "Top 10s", "Summer holidays"], "title": "Family camping in France"},{"date": "2011-04-25T17:23:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those who followed the adventures of Antoine Doinel (played by Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud) in a series of lyrical and semi-autobiographical films directed by Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut \u2013 incorporating adolescence, marriage, fatherhood and divorce \u2013 will know that Doinel's first and (perhaps) last love, Colette Tazzi, was played by the stunningly beautiful Marie-France Pisier, who has been found dead aged 66 in the swimming pool of her house near Toulon, in southern France.Doinel and audiences first caught sight of Pisier in Antoine et Colette, Truffaut's enchanting 32-minute contribution to the omnibus film L'Amour \u00e0 Vingt Ans (Love at Twenty, 1962), during a concert at the Salle Pleyel in Paris of Hector Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique. She is conscious of Antoine's stares, and pulls down her skirt. We soon realise that Colette is going to break Antoine's heart.L\u00e9aud and Pisier were born in the same month and were both 18 when they appeared in the film. Pisier was discovered by a casting director, who had been instructed by Truffaut that: \"Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud's partner must be a real young girl, not a Lolita, not a biker type, nor a little woman. She must be fresh and cheerful. Not too sexy.\"Colette, who treats Antoine like a \"buddy\", much to his frustration, runs into him again briefly in Baisers Vol\u00e9s (Stolen Kisses, 1968) and, finally, in the last film of the series, L'Amour en Fuite (Love On the Run, 1979), which she co-wrote. By then Colette was a lawyer, divorced like Antoine, but far more emotionally mature. The film contained what Truffaut called \"real flashbacks\", when we see the differences between Pisier in her screen debut and Pisier 17 years and more than 20 films later, when she was midway through a prestigious career. She worked with such auteurs as Luis Bu\u00f1uel, Jacques Rivette and Ra\u00fal Ruiz, appearing in quality French mainstream movies, with a short and unhappy detour to Hollywood.Pisier was born in French Indochina, now Vietnam, where her father served as colonial governor. She moved to Paris with her family when she was 12. While starting out in films, she completed degrees in jurisprudence and political science at Paris University.After she had appeared in several mediocre genre films, including thrillers directed by the actor Robert Hossein, Pisier's career took a more interesting turn. In 1974, she appeared in the most outrageous and amusing sequence in Bu\u00f1uel's penultimate film, Le Fant\u00f4me de la Libert\u00e9 (The Phantom of Liberty), where she is among the elegant guests seated on individual lavatories around a table from which they excuse themselves to go and eat in a little room behind a locked door. In the same year, in C\u00e9line et Julie Vont en Bateau (C\u00e9line and Julie Go Boating), Rivette's brilliantly allusive comic meditation on the nature of fiction, she and Bulle Ogier act out, in a stylised and exquisite manner, a creaky melodrama in a mysterious house.Pisier was cast by the director Andr\u00e9 T\u00e9chin\u00e9 in several of his early films, including Barocco (1976), for which she won a C\u00e9sar award for her supporting role as a prostitute with a baby in tow. She later played Charlotte Bront\u00eb, alongside Isabelle Adjani (as Emily) and Isabelle Huppert (as Anne) in T\u00e9chin\u00e9's Les Soeurs Bront\u00eb (1979).Her performance as a frivolous, neurotic wife in Jean-Charles Tacchella's Cousin Cousine (1975), a hit in the US, led to her starring role in The Other Side of Midnight (1977), a Hollywood soap opera in which she almost overcame the cliches as a naive French girl who, betrayed by an American pilot, begins to use men for their money and power.But subsequently, apart from French Postcards (1979), in which, according to the critic Roger Ebert, \"Marie-France Pisier, her jet-black hair framing her startling red lipstick, is the kind of dark Gallic woman-of-a-certain-age who knocks your socks off\", she was little seen in English-language movies. Among the rare exceptions was Chanel Solitaire (1981), in which she portrayed the designer Coco Chanel with her usual elegance. She made a splendid Madame Verdurin in Ruiz's Proust adaptation, Le Temps Retrouv\u00e9 (Time Regained, 1999), and was ethereal in the same director's magical Combat d'Amour en Songe (2000). More recently, she was an iconic presence in Christophe Honor\u00e9's homage to the French new wave, Dans Paris (2006). Pisier also directed two films, Le Bal du Gouverneur (The Governor's Party, 1990), starring Kristin Scott Thomas and adapted from Pisier's own novel about some of her childhood spent in New Caledonia in the Pacific, and Comme un Avion (Like an Airplane, 2002), a family drama based on the death of her own parents.Pisier was an outspoken defender of women's rights and legal abortion. She overcame breast cancer in the 1990s. Her first husband was the lawyer Georges Kiejman, with whom she had a son. She is survived by her second husband, Thierry Funck-Brentano, a businessman; her brother, Gilles; and her sister, Evelyne.\u2022 Marie-France Pisier, actor, writer, director, born 10 May 1944; died 24 April 2011", "tags": ["Film", "France", "Culture", "Europe", "Books"], "title": "Marie-France Pisier obituary"},{"date": "2011-06-29T15:25:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Christine Lagarde's appointment as the first woman head of the IMF is a victory for French feminism. The first woman finance minister in France (or indeed any large, industrialised country) she has long been a champion of more women and less \"libido\" and \"testosterone\" in banking and politics.With Lagarde now arguably the world's most powerful woman, the left's Martine Aubry bidding this week to be France's first female president and Marine Le Pen's high poll ratings as head of the extreme-right Front National, it might look as if it's a boom-time for women in French politics. But the picture is more nuanced than that. French feminists' verdict on the female score-card of French politics is: could do far better.When Nicolas Sarkozy was elected in 2007, he wanted half his cabinet to be women, something he has never quite achieved. He started out with several women in major posts, including Rachida Dati in justice, and Lagarde in finance, but the numbers have progressively dwindled. Currently, of 23 ministers, seven are women. Of eight junior ministers, three are women. Sarkozy was under pressure to include important jobs for women in his post-Lagarde reshuffle this afternoon, but made only small gestures towards women; the most important was Valerie Pecresse taking budget portfolio and being made government spokesman.On the opposition front, both Aubry and Le Pen are \"daughters of\" famous political fathers, carrying the weight of political dynasties and often asked about their fathers' influence, which is assumed to define their political moves. Both are feminists and say they are their own people. Aubry, the daughter of Jacques Delors, former Socialist finance minister and president of the European Commission, acknowledged in her presidential bid speech this week that she had learned a lot from her family. Le Pen works with and consults with hers.Another woman could enter the presidential race next month if Eva Joly, the investigative judge who relentlessly pursued major French corruption cases, wins the Green ticket. The party's primary race is expected to go to a second round vote on July 12.After the New York arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn over the alleged attempted rape of a New York hotel worker last month, there has been an outpouring against sexism and sex-discrimination in France. When one woman minister complained she no longer felt comfortable wearing a skirt in parliament, many female politicians agreed. Lagarde's appointment to the IMF has lifted the mood. But it will take more than one woman to turn around the statistics.Women MPs make up 18.5% of parliament, compared to 21% in the UK, 33% in Germany and 46% in Sweden. Less than a quarter of French Senators are women.In French boardrooms, only 15% of executives in large French companies are women. A new law has set a quota for 40% by 2017.French law on sex-equality means that political parties fielding lists of candidates in elections must ensure 50% of the names are women. If not, the party's funding is cut accordingly. Some parties seem happier to take the financial hit than field women. In 2010, with 26% of women out of 588 candidates, Sarkozy's ruling rightwing UMP party lost over 4m euros.A female politician once told the story of how Lagarde would often ask company heads why there weren't more women in their boardrooms. If they replied that it was because there was a lack of candidates or women at that level, she would reportedly open her desk drawer, get out a pile of top women's CVs and hand them over. Women in French politics are hoping that spirit lives on in Paris after she leaves for Washington.", "tags": ["Women", "Women in politics"], "title": "Women on top in France?"},{"date": "2011-06-28T23:47:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "As things stand, and the elections are a year away, a socialist is set to become the next president of France. Barring a dramatic comeback by Nicolas Sarkozy, and barring another midair explosion of the sort that knocked Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the skies, a France disillusioned with the quixotic and divisive leadership of the incumbent will turn to the centre-left for a calmer head and a safer pair of hands. If anything, the disaster which befell Lionel Jospin, the socialist candidate in 2002 who was knocked out in the first round by the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen, is more likely to recur on the right, as Mr Sarkozy suffers at the hands of Le Pen's cleverly rebranded daughter Marine. The big if in all this is whether the left can unite around a candidate with the ability to broadcast over the full bandwidth of politics.The two frontrunners for the socialist nomination are the former party leader Fran\u00e7ois Hollande \u2013 now thinner, less pally with journalists and more presidential \u2013 and his successor Martine Aubry, who launched her bid to become France's first woman president yesterday. There are differences between the two. Mr Hollande is more likely to attract votes from the centre-right. Indeed, the 78-year-old former president Jacques Chirac sent a Taser electroshock through the nervous system of the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace by saying he would vote for Mr Hollande next year. Mr Hollande brushed it off as a joke. Mr Sarkozy did not. The incident showed how vulnerable he is from both flanks, the far and centre-right.Ms Aubry, on the other hand, has greater appeal to the left as a whole. In 2008 she inherited the leadership of a party that was profoundly divided. She has since managed to knit together a party of polar opposites, the leftwing partisans of Laurent Fabius and those of Mr Strauss-Kahn. So that today she counts among her supporters not only key figures of the left but Strauss-Kahnians like Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis. She and Mr Hollande also differ on France's nuclear future. Ms Aubry has followed Germany's lead on this issue and is more likely to appeal to the greens.Both candidates are vulnerable to attack. A former labour minister best known for creating the 35-hour week, Ms Aubry has her work cut\u00a0out convincing those who run small businesses that France's future lies in more control, not less of it. Nothing will stop S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, Hollande's former wife, from entertaining the illusion that she can succeed in 2012 where she failed in 2007, and she may split the centre-left still further. In a Europe that has turned en bloc to the right, France is living up to its role as a land apart. The presidential contest of 2012 will not disappoint.", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "France", "Europe", "French elections 2012"], "title": "France: Socialist sunrise | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-10T03:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you have happy memories of childhood holidays spent camping in France, then the modern holiday parcs throughout the country are sure to please your own brood. These days, tents are just one of many kinds of accommodation \u2013 you can now take your pick from Gypsy caravans, tree houses and safari tents, as well as the traditional tents and mobile homes. With great facilities on the sites, there's no better reason to pack up the car, cruise across the Channel and enjoy a camping holiday.The prices were correct at the time of going to press; availability for late July and August may be limited at some campsitesAt the Domaine de Dienn\u00e9, tents and mobile homes are a thing of the past. Here, you can choose between colourful Gypsy caravans or star-gazing cabins complete with telescope, star-chart and a perspex ceiling. No need to come back down to earth for the activities on site either, with a tree-top adventure course and \"fun-trambo\" (a cross between bungee-jumping and trampolining), those with a sense of adventure are well catered for. For a futuristic day out, the excellent Futuroscope theme park is just 20 miles away. Meanwhile, those who would rather take it easy will appreciate the fresh bread and croissants delivered to the door each morning, and enjoy the pretty surrounding countryside. \u2022 +33 5 49 45 87 63, domaine-de-dienne.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights, including a Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3663 for a family of four starting August 20Vend\u00e9e, one of the best areas in France for a family holiday, is just four hours' drive from the ferry ports of Saint-Malo and Cherbourg and this peaceful site is within easy reach of the area's best attractions. From the gorgeous beaches at Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie and Les Sables d'Olonne, to the magnificent historical Puy de Fou theme park, children of all ages will adore a holiday here. The picturesque Camping La Garangeoire is set among lakes, meadows and woods and offers a host of activities, including crazy golf, trampolines and boating on the lake. \u2022 + 33 2 51 46 65 39, camping-la-garangeoire.com. Seven nights in July for two adults and up to four children staying in a three-bedroom Villagrand Deluxe mobile home costs from \u00a31,100, accommodation only. Ferry crossings or fly-drive packages can be arranged at a supplement through Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk)This peaceful lakeside site is ideal for \"tweenies\" and teenagers who can safely roam the 84-acre resort independently and enjoy activities such as mini-golf, cycling, karting and archery. There are also four pools and waterslides. The site itself offers a choice of tents, mobile homes or \u2013 for real camping softies \u2013 luxury log cabins complete with dishwashers and flatscreen TVs. The site is ideally situated for trips into Paris, just 90 minutes away by coach, or to Disneyland Paris, while the Chateau de Pierrefonds, the setting for the BBC TV series Merlin, is just a short drive away. \u2022 + 33 3 23 55 50 02, la-croix-du-vieux-pont.com; a seven-night stay in a holiday home sleeping up to six costs from \u20ac810-960 in the summer holidays. Also available through Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) If your kids are fans of fairy stories, then why not take them to the land of fantasy castles? This rural campsite is on the doorstep of one of the Loire's most magnificent ch\u00e2teaux, Ch\u00e2teau de Chambord. With a water park, tennis court and mini-golf to occupy the children, mum can practise her Sleeping Beauty routine at the small on-site spa. Accommodation comes in the shape of tents and mobile homes, while the tree houses provide the perfect abode for your own little Hansels and Gretels. \u2022 + 33 2 54 87 05 42, camping-des-marais.com. Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk) offers seven nights from 17 August for two adults and two children in a supertent, with Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3790 The Dordogne has long been a favourite destination for family holidays, and this picturesque parc is close to the River Dordogne, the medieval town of Sarlat and the cliff-top Chateau Beynac. The site's restaurant, reception, shop and bar are housed in beautiful golden stone Perigordin buildings, and many pitches enjoy beautiful views of the surrounding countryside. Parents can get some personal space in the Mezzanine mobile homes, which come with a separate children's play room above the main living area. There are both indoor and outdoor swimming pool complexes, waterslides and evening entertainment. \u2022 +33 5 53 02 64 00, saint-avit-loisirs.com. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers seven nights in luxury tent from 16 August for \u00a3759 (sleeps up to six), accommodation onlyThis relatively undiscovered area of France is a haven for foodies and the on-site restaurant at Camping Val de Cantobre doesn't disappoint. It is set in a beautifully converted mill, with lovely oak beams, serves a variety of local dishes and is popular with locals. The small and popular site is surrounded by spectacular scenery, making it perfect for those with a spirit of adventure; activities on offer include canyoning, rock-climbing and horse-riding. There are also four swimming pools on site and both tents and mobile homes are available. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights in a Classic two-bedroom mobile home from 1 July for \u00a3648, including P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing. Seven nights in a Maxi Tent from 20 August costs \u00a3777At this beachside site on the south coast of Brittany, there's something for all the family; mum and dad can use the spa and well equipped gym, while the kids can enjoy the large covered pool, waterslides, play areas and children's club in July and August. The nearest beach is ideal for poking around in rock pools and the town \u2013 with its large beach, bars and restaurants \u2013 is a 15-minute walk away. To top it all, the site is set in a beautiful area of France and has lovely views across the bay. \u2022 + 33 2 98 57 05 37, escale-stgilles.fr. Matthews Holidays (01483 284044, matthewsfrance.co.uk) offers seven nights from \u00a3756 to \u00a3967 per family in the summer holidays, including midweek Dover-Calais ferry crossing for two adults and up to three children\u00a0If the thought of a long car journey fills you with dread, then this large and lively campsite is the one for you. Just 22 miles from the ferry port of Saint-Malo, it is set in the grounds of a chateau, and has a fantastic choice of accommodation. Thatched woodland lodges and treehouses are available as well as the usual tents and mobile homes. There is a riding school on site and the fantastic water park includes an indoor pool and slides, making it ideal for children of all ages. \u2022 + 33 2 99 73 53 00, lesormes.co.uk. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven-nights in a Maxi Tent for two adults and all children, including return off-peak P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3930 in mid-August or \u00a3734 from 25 AugustFor a taste of Provencal village life, head to this small site in the foothills of the Massif des Maures in the Var department. Activities on offer include boules, tennis, football and volleyball, and there are two swimming pools with water slides. Half an hour away are the beaches of Fr\u00e9jus, Saint-Rapha\u00ebl and Saint Aygulf, while Saint-Tropez, Grasse, Cannes and the spectacular Gorge du Verdon are all about an hour's drive away. The sunnier climes of the Riviera lend themselves to outdoor living and Eurocamp's luxurious safari tents, complete with comfy beds, wooden deck and equipped kitchen, allow you to do so in style. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers a seven-night stay from 23 August for \u00a3604.80 per family in a Safari Tent (sleeps up to 6 people, maximum 4 adults), accommodation onlyPerched on the edge of Lake Biscarrosse with its gentle sloping beach, La R\u00e9serve offers a wide choice of water sports including waterskiing, sailing and canoeing. There is a variety of mobile homes on offer, and the site has bars, a restaurant, a take-away and gas-fired barbecues to use. The surrounding area offers wide, sweeping beaches on the Aquitaine coast 13 miles away, and the jaw-dropping Dune de Pyla (the highest dune in Europe) is a little further north. Foodies and wine lovers can enjoy the oysters on offer at Arcachon and the wineries of Saint-Emilion and in Bordeaux. \u2022 + 33 5 58 09 74 79. Siblu (0871 911 7777, siblu.com) offers seven nights in a two-bedroom Esprit holiday home from 17 July from \u00a3873.30 (sleeps up to six) Carolyn Boyd is editor of France Magazine", "tags": ["France holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Provence holidays", "Top 10s", "Summer holidays"], "title": "Family camping in France"},{"date": "2011-04-25T17:23:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those who followed the adventures of Antoine Doinel (played by Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud) in a series of lyrical and semi-autobiographical films directed by Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut \u2013 incorporating adolescence, marriage, fatherhood and divorce \u2013 will know that Doinel's first and (perhaps) last love, Colette Tazzi, was played by the stunningly beautiful Marie-France Pisier, who has been found dead aged 66 in the swimming pool of her house near Toulon, in southern France.Doinel and audiences first caught sight of Pisier in Antoine et Colette, Truffaut's enchanting 32-minute contribution to the omnibus film L'Amour \u00e0 Vingt Ans (Love at Twenty, 1962), during a concert at the Salle Pleyel in Paris of Hector Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique. She is conscious of Antoine's stares, and pulls down her skirt. We soon realise that Colette is going to break Antoine's heart.L\u00e9aud and Pisier were born in the same month and were both 18 when they appeared in the film. Pisier was discovered by a casting director, who had been instructed by Truffaut that: \"Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud's partner must be a real young girl, not a Lolita, not a biker type, nor a little woman. She must be fresh and cheerful. Not too sexy.\"Colette, who treats Antoine like a \"buddy\", much to his frustration, runs into him again briefly in Baisers Vol\u00e9s (Stolen Kisses, 1968) and, finally, in the last film of the series, L'Amour en Fuite (Love On the Run, 1979), which she co-wrote. By then Colette was a lawyer, divorced like Antoine, but far more emotionally mature. The film contained what Truffaut called \"real flashbacks\", when we see the differences between Pisier in her screen debut and Pisier 17 years and more than 20 films later, when she was midway through a prestigious career. She worked with such auteurs as Luis Bu\u00f1uel, Jacques Rivette and Ra\u00fal Ruiz, appearing in quality French mainstream movies, with a short and unhappy detour to Hollywood.Pisier was born in French Indochina, now Vietnam, where her father served as colonial governor. She moved to Paris with her family when she was 12. While starting out in films, she completed degrees in jurisprudence and political science at Paris University.After she had appeared in several mediocre genre films, including thrillers directed by the actor Robert Hossein, Pisier's career took a more interesting turn. In 1974, she appeared in the most outrageous and amusing sequence in Bu\u00f1uel's penultimate film, Le Fant\u00f4me de la Libert\u00e9 (The Phantom of Liberty), where she is among the elegant guests seated on individual lavatories around a table from which they excuse themselves to go and eat in a little room behind a locked door. In the same year, in C\u00e9line et Julie Vont en Bateau (C\u00e9line and Julie Go Boating), Rivette's brilliantly allusive comic meditation on the nature of fiction, she and Bulle Ogier act out, in a stylised and exquisite manner, a creaky melodrama in a mysterious house.Pisier was cast by the director Andr\u00e9 T\u00e9chin\u00e9 in several of his early films, including Barocco (1976), for which she won a C\u00e9sar award for her supporting role as a prostitute with a baby in tow. She later played Charlotte Bront\u00eb, alongside Isabelle Adjani (as Emily) and Isabelle Huppert (as Anne) in T\u00e9chin\u00e9's Les Soeurs Bront\u00eb (1979).Her performance as a frivolous, neurotic wife in Jean-Charles Tacchella's Cousin Cousine (1975), a hit in the US, led to her starring role in The Other Side of Midnight (1977), a Hollywood soap opera in which she almost overcame the cliches as a naive French girl who, betrayed by an American pilot, begins to use men for their money and power.But subsequently, apart from French Postcards (1979), in which, according to the critic Roger Ebert, \"Marie-France Pisier, her jet-black hair framing her startling red lipstick, is the kind of dark Gallic woman-of-a-certain-age who knocks your socks off\", she was little seen in English-language movies. Among the rare exceptions was Chanel Solitaire (1981), in which she portrayed the designer Coco Chanel with her usual elegance. She made a splendid Madame Verdurin in Ruiz's Proust adaptation, Le Temps Retrouv\u00e9 (Time Regained, 1999), and was ethereal in the same director's magical Combat d'Amour en Songe (2000). More recently, she was an iconic presence in Christophe Honor\u00e9's homage to the French new wave, Dans Paris (2006). Pisier also directed two films, Le Bal du Gouverneur (The Governor's Party, 1990), starring Kristin Scott Thomas and adapted from Pisier's own novel about some of her childhood spent in New Caledonia in the Pacific, and Comme un Avion (Like an Airplane, 2002), a family drama based on the death of her own parents.Pisier was an outspoken defender of women's rights and legal abortion. She overcame breast cancer in the 1990s. Her first husband was the lawyer Georges Kiejman, with whom she had a son. She is survived by her second husband, Thierry Funck-Brentano, a businessman; her brother, Gilles; and her sister, Evelyne.\u2022 Marie-France Pisier, actor, writer, director, born 10 May 1944; died 24 April 2011", "tags": ["Film", "France", "Culture", "Europe", "Books"], "title": "Marie-France Pisier obituary"},{"date": "2011-06-29T15:25:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Christine Lagarde's appointment as the first woman head of the IMF is a victory for French feminism. The first woman finance minister in France (or indeed any large, industrialised country) she has long been a champion of more women and less \"libido\" and \"testosterone\" in banking and politics.With Lagarde now arguably the world's most powerful woman, the left's Martine Aubry bidding this week to be France's first female president and Marine Le Pen's high poll ratings as head of the extreme-right Front National, it might look as if it's a boom-time for women in French politics. But the picture is more nuanced than that. French feminists' verdict on the female score-card of French politics is: could do far better.When Nicolas Sarkozy was elected in 2007, he wanted half his cabinet to be women, something he has never quite achieved. He started out with several women in major posts, including Rachida Dati in justice, and Lagarde in finance, but the numbers have progressively dwindled. Currently, of 23 ministers, seven are women. Of eight junior ministers, three are women. Sarkozy was under pressure to include important jobs for women in his post-Lagarde reshuffle this afternoon, but made only small gestures towards women; the most important was Valerie Pecresse taking budget portfolio and being made government spokesman.On the opposition front, both Aubry and Le Pen are \"daughters of\" famous political fathers, carrying the weight of political dynasties and often asked about their fathers' influence, which is assumed to define their political moves. Both are feminists and say they are their own people. Aubry, the daughter of Jacques Delors, former Socialist finance minister and president of the European Commission, acknowledged in her presidential bid speech this week that she had learned a lot from her family. Le Pen works with and consults with hers.Another woman could enter the presidential race next month if Eva Joly, the investigative judge who relentlessly pursued major French corruption cases, wins the Green ticket. The party's primary race is expected to go to a second round vote on July 12.After the New York arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn over the alleged attempted rape of a New York hotel worker last month, there has been an outpouring against sexism and sex-discrimination in France. When one woman minister complained she no longer felt comfortable wearing a skirt in parliament, many female politicians agreed. Lagarde's appointment to the IMF has lifted the mood. But it will take more than one woman to turn around the statistics.Women MPs make up 18.5% of parliament, compared to 21% in the UK, 33% in Germany and 46% in Sweden. Less than a quarter of French Senators are women.In French boardrooms, only 15% of executives in large French companies are women. A new law has set a quota for 40% by 2017.French law on sex-equality means that political parties fielding lists of candidates in elections must ensure 50% of the names are women. If not, the party's funding is cut accordingly. Some parties seem happier to take the financial hit than field women. In 2010, with 26% of women out of 588 candidates, Sarkozy's ruling rightwing UMP party lost over 4m euros.A female politician once told the story of how Lagarde would often ask company heads why there weren't more women in their boardrooms. If they replied that it was because there was a lack of candidates or women at that level, she would reportedly open her desk drawer, get out a pile of top women's CVs and hand them over. Women in French politics are hoping that spirit lives on in Paris after she leaves for Washington.", "tags": ["Women", "Women in politics"], "title": "Women on top in France?"},{"date": "2011-06-10T23:01:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "We are in the car, deep under the English Channel, and I\u00a0have earphones in. I'm listening to a French language CD, number eight of 12. Two people, a\u00a0man and a woman, are on the CD, learning along with me. At the beginning, the woman kept making silly mistakes, while the man and I\u00a0picked things up very quickly. I felt she was holding us back.Now that we've reached reflexives, however, the man is struggling. Like me, he speaks haltingly and forgets basic stuff. The woman, meanwhile, seems to have turned a corner. I feel myself drifting off.\"We're here,\" my wife says. \"You're driving.\"\"Je me l\u00e8ve maintentant,\" I say.The trip is a band thing \u2013 we've got two dates in Normandy \u2013 and an advance guard (two band members, two wives, three children) are staying at the cultural centre that is the site of the first gig: concert Blue-Grass par le groupe anglais, plus chicken. While we're shown round, my wife gabbles away in her special brand of French, consisting of the phrase \"C'est possible...?\" and\u00a0a dozen nouns, all glued together with total nonsense. To my\u00a0fury, she is able to make herself understood, whereas every time I open my mouth everyone looks at me as if I have two heads.That night we go out for pizza. I\u00a0walk into the restaurant with the middle one and place our order. The woman at the counter stares at me for a moment, then asks a question I\u00a0don't understand. For a\u00a0time it seems we have reached a linguistic stalemate, but finally she reaches for her pad. I go to sit with the others.\"Mum's French is way better than Dad's,\" says the middle one.\"That's rubbish,\" I say. \"She doesn't know any reflexive verbs.\"\"That woman didn't understand what you were saying,\" he says. \"She had to get a pencil and paper.\"\"Yes, but that was because...\"\"And all she wrote on the paper was a big question mark.\"\"That's a lie,\" I say.Next day, we pick up the fiddle player and his wife from the train station. When we return, it's clear that the proprietor of the cultural centre and his wife are cross because they were expecting us for lunch. Here, my lack of French serves me well: I try to explain, then shrug, then exhale with exasperation. The\u00a0fiddle player's wife, who speaks fluent French, takes over. They have what I\u00a0assume is a conversation about the unfortunate confusion. I\u00a0find they are all looking at me.\"Non,\" says the fiddle player's wife, \"il comprend tout.\"At 5pm, the rest of the band arrives with the news that the PA system hasn't turned up. By the time we've rigged a substitute, the barbecue has been lit and people are beginning to drift across the lawn. It's a beautiful evening, and we are set up facing a terrace. The proprietor is urging us to begin so people can eat at 9pm.When the first song begins, I have my back to the crowd. I play a few notes on the harmonica, and I know from experience that it's important to check I'm holding it the right way up. The sound is surprisingly good, and the song is lovely: slow, plaintive, a little haunting. I step up to the mic and do my part. Once I've managed the first few notes, I look up.I have seen restless audiences before. I have seen boredom, and I\u00a0have seen pained indulgence. But\u00a0I've never seen what I see now: 100 French people sitting on white plastic chairs, whose expressions betray not just bewilderment, but disapproval. It looks like a parole hearing. I glance down at my set list:\u00a0only 14 more songs, plus one more gig, to go.", "tags": ["Family", "Relationships", "Parents and parenting", "Life and style"], "title": "Tim Dowling: Lost in France"},{"date": "2011-06-28T23:47:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "As things stand, and the elections are a year away, a socialist is set to become the next president of France. Barring a dramatic comeback by Nicolas Sarkozy, and barring another midair explosion of the sort that knocked Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the skies, a France disillusioned with the quixotic and divisive leadership of the incumbent will turn to the centre-left for a calmer head and a safer pair of hands. If anything, the disaster which befell Lionel Jospin, the socialist candidate in 2002 who was knocked out in the first round by the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen, is more likely to recur on the right, as Mr Sarkozy suffers at the hands of Le Pen's cleverly rebranded daughter Marine. The big if in all this is whether the left can unite around a candidate with the ability to broadcast over the full bandwidth of politics.The two frontrunners for the socialist nomination are the former party leader Fran\u00e7ois Hollande \u2013 now thinner, less pally with journalists and more presidential \u2013 and his successor Martine Aubry, who launched her bid to become France's first woman president yesterday. There are differences between the two. Mr Hollande is more likely to attract votes from the centre-right. Indeed, the 78-year-old former president Jacques Chirac sent a Taser electroshock through the nervous system of the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace by saying he would vote for Mr Hollande next year. Mr Hollande brushed it off as a joke. Mr Sarkozy did not. The incident showed how vulnerable he is from both flanks, the far and centre-right.Ms Aubry, on the other hand, has greater appeal to the left as a whole. In 2008 she inherited the leadership of a party that was profoundly divided. She has since managed to knit together a party of polar opposites, the leftwing partisans of Laurent Fabius and those of Mr Strauss-Kahn. So that today she counts among her supporters not only key figures of the left but Strauss-Kahnians like Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis. She and Mr Hollande also differ on France's nuclear future. Ms Aubry has followed Germany's lead on this issue and is more likely to appeal to the greens.Both candidates are vulnerable to attack. A former labour minister best known for creating the 35-hour week, Ms Aubry has her work cut\u00a0out convincing those who run small businesses that France's future lies in more control, not less of it. Nothing will stop S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, Hollande's former wife, from entertaining the illusion that she can succeed in 2012 where she failed in 2007, and she may split the centre-left still further. In a Europe that has turned en bloc to the right, France is living up to its role as a land apart. The presidential contest of 2012 will not disappoint.", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "France", "Europe", "French elections 2012"], "title": "France: Socialist sunrise | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-10T03:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you have happy memories of childhood holidays spent camping in France, then the modern holiday parcs throughout the country are sure to please your own brood. These days, tents are just one of many kinds of accommodation \u2013 you can now take your pick from Gypsy caravans, tree houses and safari tents, as well as the traditional tents and mobile homes. With great facilities on the sites, there's no better reason to pack up the car, cruise across the Channel and enjoy a camping holiday.The prices were correct at the time of going to press; availability for late July and August may be limited at some campsitesAt the Domaine de Dienn\u00e9, tents and mobile homes are a thing of the past. Here, you can choose between colourful Gypsy caravans or star-gazing cabins complete with telescope, star-chart and a perspex ceiling. No need to come back down to earth for the activities on site either, with a tree-top adventure course and \"fun-trambo\" (a cross between bungee-jumping and trampolining), those with a sense of adventure are well catered for. For a futuristic day out, the excellent Futuroscope theme park is just 20 miles away. Meanwhile, those who would rather take it easy will appreciate the fresh bread and croissants delivered to the door each morning, and enjoy the pretty surrounding countryside. \u2022 +33 5 49 45 87 63, domaine-de-dienne.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights, including a Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3663 for a family of four starting August 20Vend\u00e9e, one of the best areas in France for a family holiday, is just four hours' drive from the ferry ports of Saint-Malo and Cherbourg and this peaceful site is within easy reach of the area's best attractions. From the gorgeous beaches at Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie and Les Sables d'Olonne, to the magnificent historical Puy de Fou theme park, children of all ages will adore a holiday here. The picturesque Camping La Garangeoire is set among lakes, meadows and woods and offers a host of activities, including crazy golf, trampolines and boating on the lake. \u2022 + 33 2 51 46 65 39, camping-la-garangeoire.com. Seven nights in July for two adults and up to four children staying in a three-bedroom Villagrand Deluxe mobile home costs from \u00a31,100, accommodation only. Ferry crossings or fly-drive packages can be arranged at a supplement through Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk)This peaceful lakeside site is ideal for \"tweenies\" and teenagers who can safely roam the 84-acre resort independently and enjoy activities such as mini-golf, cycling, karting and archery. There are also four pools and waterslides. The site itself offers a choice of tents, mobile homes or \u2013 for real camping softies \u2013 luxury log cabins complete with dishwashers and flatscreen TVs. The site is ideally situated for trips into Paris, just 90 minutes away by coach, or to Disneyland Paris, while the Chateau de Pierrefonds, the setting for the BBC TV series Merlin, is just a short drive away. \u2022 + 33 3 23 55 50 02, la-croix-du-vieux-pont.com; a seven-night stay in a holiday home sleeping up to six costs from \u20ac810-960 in the summer holidays. Also available through Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) If your kids are fans of fairy stories, then why not take them to the land of fantasy castles? This rural campsite is on the doorstep of one of the Loire's most magnificent ch\u00e2teaux, Ch\u00e2teau de Chambord. With a water park, tennis court and mini-golf to occupy the children, mum can practise her Sleeping Beauty routine at the small on-site spa. Accommodation comes in the shape of tents and mobile homes, while the tree houses provide the perfect abode for your own little Hansels and Gretels. \u2022 + 33 2 54 87 05 42, camping-des-marais.com. Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk) offers seven nights from 17 August for two adults and two children in a supertent, with Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3790 The Dordogne has long been a favourite destination for family holidays, and this picturesque parc is close to the River Dordogne, the medieval town of Sarlat and the cliff-top Chateau Beynac. The site's restaurant, reception, shop and bar are housed in beautiful golden stone Perigordin buildings, and many pitches enjoy beautiful views of the surrounding countryside. Parents can get some personal space in the Mezzanine mobile homes, which come with a separate children's play room above the main living area. There are both indoor and outdoor swimming pool complexes, waterslides and evening entertainment. \u2022 +33 5 53 02 64 00, saint-avit-loisirs.com. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers seven nights in luxury tent from 16 August for \u00a3759 (sleeps up to six), accommodation onlyThis relatively undiscovered area of France is a haven for foodies and the on-site restaurant at Camping Val de Cantobre doesn't disappoint. It is set in a beautifully converted mill, with lovely oak beams, serves a variety of local dishes and is popular with locals. The small and popular site is surrounded by spectacular scenery, making it perfect for those with a spirit of adventure; activities on offer include canyoning, rock-climbing and horse-riding. There are also four swimming pools on site and both tents and mobile homes are available. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights in a Classic two-bedroom mobile home from 1 July for \u00a3648, including P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing. Seven nights in a Maxi Tent from 20 August costs \u00a3777At this beachside site on the south coast of Brittany, there's something for all the family; mum and dad can use the spa and well equipped gym, while the kids can enjoy the large covered pool, waterslides, play areas and children's club in July and August. The nearest beach is ideal for poking around in rock pools and the town \u2013 with its large beach, bars and restaurants \u2013 is a 15-minute walk away. To top it all, the site is set in a beautiful area of France and has lovely views across the bay. \u2022 + 33 2 98 57 05 37, escale-stgilles.fr. Matthews Holidays (01483 284044, matthewsfrance.co.uk) offers seven nights from \u00a3756 to \u00a3967 per family in the summer holidays, including midweek Dover-Calais ferry crossing for two adults and up to three children\u00a0If the thought of a long car journey fills you with dread, then this large and lively campsite is the one for you. Just 22 miles from the ferry port of Saint-Malo, it is set in the grounds of a chateau, and has a fantastic choice of accommodation. Thatched woodland lodges and treehouses are available as well as the usual tents and mobile homes. There is a riding school on site and the fantastic water park includes an indoor pool and slides, making it ideal for children of all ages. \u2022 + 33 2 99 73 53 00, lesormes.co.uk. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven-nights in a Maxi Tent for two adults and all children, including return off-peak P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3930 in mid-August or \u00a3734 from 25 AugustFor a taste of Provencal village life, head to this small site in the foothills of the Massif des Maures in the Var department. Activities on offer include boules, tennis, football and volleyball, and there are two swimming pools with water slides. Half an hour away are the beaches of Fr\u00e9jus, Saint-Rapha\u00ebl and Saint Aygulf, while Saint-Tropez, Grasse, Cannes and the spectacular Gorge du Verdon are all about an hour's drive away. The sunnier climes of the Riviera lend themselves to outdoor living and Eurocamp's luxurious safari tents, complete with comfy beds, wooden deck and equipped kitchen, allow you to do so in style. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers a seven-night stay from 23 August for \u00a3604.80 per family in a Safari Tent (sleeps up to 6 people, maximum 4 adults), accommodation onlyPerched on the edge of Lake Biscarrosse with its gentle sloping beach, La R\u00e9serve offers a wide choice of water sports including waterskiing, sailing and canoeing. There is a variety of mobile homes on offer, and the site has bars, a restaurant, a take-away and gas-fired barbecues to use. The surrounding area offers wide, sweeping beaches on the Aquitaine coast 13 miles away, and the jaw-dropping Dune de Pyla (the highest dune in Europe) is a little further north. Foodies and wine lovers can enjoy the oysters on offer at Arcachon and the wineries of Saint-Emilion and in Bordeaux. \u2022 + 33 5 58 09 74 79. Siblu (0871 911 7777, siblu.com) offers seven nights in a two-bedroom Esprit holiday home from 17 July from \u00a3873.30 (sleeps up to six) Carolyn Boyd is editor of France Magazine", "tags": ["France holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Provence holidays", "Top 10s", "Summer holidays"], "title": "Family camping in France"},{"date": "2011-04-25T17:23:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those who followed the adventures of Antoine Doinel (played by Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud) in a series of lyrical and semi-autobiographical films directed by Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut \u2013 incorporating adolescence, marriage, fatherhood and divorce \u2013 will know that Doinel's first and (perhaps) last love, Colette Tazzi, was played by the stunningly beautiful Marie-France Pisier, who has been found dead aged 66 in the swimming pool of her house near Toulon, in southern France.Doinel and audiences first caught sight of Pisier in Antoine et Colette, Truffaut's enchanting 32-minute contribution to the omnibus film L'Amour \u00e0 Vingt Ans (Love at Twenty, 1962), during a concert at the Salle Pleyel in Paris of Hector Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique. She is conscious of Antoine's stares, and pulls down her skirt. We soon realise that Colette is going to break Antoine's heart.L\u00e9aud and Pisier were born in the same month and were both 18 when they appeared in the film. Pisier was discovered by a casting director, who had been instructed by Truffaut that: \"Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud's partner must be a real young girl, not a Lolita, not a biker type, nor a little woman. She must be fresh and cheerful. Not too sexy.\"Colette, who treats Antoine like a \"buddy\", much to his frustration, runs into him again briefly in Baisers Vol\u00e9s (Stolen Kisses, 1968) and, finally, in the last film of the series, L'Amour en Fuite (Love On the Run, 1979), which she co-wrote. By then Colette was a lawyer, divorced like Antoine, but far more emotionally mature. The film contained what Truffaut called \"real flashbacks\", when we see the differences between Pisier in her screen debut and Pisier 17 years and more than 20 films later, when she was midway through a prestigious career. She worked with such auteurs as Luis Bu\u00f1uel, Jacques Rivette and Ra\u00fal Ruiz, appearing in quality French mainstream movies, with a short and unhappy detour to Hollywood.Pisier was born in French Indochina, now Vietnam, where her father served as colonial governor. She moved to Paris with her family when she was 12. While starting out in films, she completed degrees in jurisprudence and political science at Paris University.After she had appeared in several mediocre genre films, including thrillers directed by the actor Robert Hossein, Pisier's career took a more interesting turn. In 1974, she appeared in the most outrageous and amusing sequence in Bu\u00f1uel's penultimate film, Le Fant\u00f4me de la Libert\u00e9 (The Phantom of Liberty), where she is among the elegant guests seated on individual lavatories around a table from which they excuse themselves to go and eat in a little room behind a locked door. In the same year, in C\u00e9line et Julie Vont en Bateau (C\u00e9line and Julie Go Boating), Rivette's brilliantly allusive comic meditation on the nature of fiction, she and Bulle Ogier act out, in a stylised and exquisite manner, a creaky melodrama in a mysterious house.Pisier was cast by the director Andr\u00e9 T\u00e9chin\u00e9 in several of his early films, including Barocco (1976), for which she won a C\u00e9sar award for her supporting role as a prostitute with a baby in tow. She later played Charlotte Bront\u00eb, alongside Isabelle Adjani (as Emily) and Isabelle Huppert (as Anne) in T\u00e9chin\u00e9's Les Soeurs Bront\u00eb (1979).Her performance as a frivolous, neurotic wife in Jean-Charles Tacchella's Cousin Cousine (1975), a hit in the US, led to her starring role in The Other Side of Midnight (1977), a Hollywood soap opera in which she almost overcame the cliches as a naive French girl who, betrayed by an American pilot, begins to use men for their money and power.But subsequently, apart from French Postcards (1979), in which, according to the critic Roger Ebert, \"Marie-France Pisier, her jet-black hair framing her startling red lipstick, is the kind of dark Gallic woman-of-a-certain-age who knocks your socks off\", she was little seen in English-language movies. Among the rare exceptions was Chanel Solitaire (1981), in which she portrayed the designer Coco Chanel with her usual elegance. She made a splendid Madame Verdurin in Ruiz's Proust adaptation, Le Temps Retrouv\u00e9 (Time Regained, 1999), and was ethereal in the same director's magical Combat d'Amour en Songe (2000). More recently, she was an iconic presence in Christophe Honor\u00e9's homage to the French new wave, Dans Paris (2006). Pisier also directed two films, Le Bal du Gouverneur (The Governor's Party, 1990), starring Kristin Scott Thomas and adapted from Pisier's own novel about some of her childhood spent in New Caledonia in the Pacific, and Comme un Avion (Like an Airplane, 2002), a family drama based on the death of her own parents.Pisier was an outspoken defender of women's rights and legal abortion. She overcame breast cancer in the 1990s. Her first husband was the lawyer Georges Kiejman, with whom she had a son. She is survived by her second husband, Thierry Funck-Brentano, a businessman; her brother, Gilles; and her sister, Evelyne.\u2022 Marie-France Pisier, actor, writer, director, born 10 May 1944; died 24 April 2011", "tags": ["Film", "France", "Culture", "Europe", "Books"], "title": "Marie-France Pisier obituary"},{"date": "2011-06-29T15:25:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Christine Lagarde's appointment as the first woman head of the IMF is a victory for French feminism. The first woman finance minister in France (or indeed any large, industrialised country) she has long been a champion of more women and less \"libido\" and \"testosterone\" in banking and politics.With Lagarde now arguably the world's most powerful woman, the left's Martine Aubry bidding this week to be France's first female president and Marine Le Pen's high poll ratings as head of the extreme-right Front National, it might look as if it's a boom-time for women in French politics. But the picture is more nuanced than that. French feminists' verdict on the female score-card of French politics is: could do far better.When Nicolas Sarkozy was elected in 2007, he wanted half his cabinet to be women, something he has never quite achieved. He started out with several women in major posts, including Rachida Dati in justice, and Lagarde in finance, but the numbers have progressively dwindled. Currently, of 23 ministers, seven are women. Of eight junior ministers, three are women. Sarkozy was under pressure to include important jobs for women in his post-Lagarde reshuffle this afternoon, but made only small gestures towards women; the most important was Valerie Pecresse taking budget portfolio and being made government spokesman.On the opposition front, both Aubry and Le Pen are \"daughters of\" famous political fathers, carrying the weight of political dynasties and often asked about their fathers' influence, which is assumed to define their political moves. Both are feminists and say they are their own people. Aubry, the daughter of Jacques Delors, former Socialist finance minister and president of the European Commission, acknowledged in her presidential bid speech this week that she had learned a lot from her family. Le Pen works with and consults with hers.Another woman could enter the presidential race next month if Eva Joly, the investigative judge who relentlessly pursued major French corruption cases, wins the Green ticket. The party's primary race is expected to go to a second round vote on July 12.After the New York arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn over the alleged attempted rape of a New York hotel worker last month, there has been an outpouring against sexism and sex-discrimination in France. When one woman minister complained she no longer felt comfortable wearing a skirt in parliament, many female politicians agreed. Lagarde's appointment to the IMF has lifted the mood. But it will take more than one woman to turn around the statistics.Women MPs make up 18.5% of parliament, compared to 21% in the UK, 33% in Germany and 46% in Sweden. Less than a quarter of French Senators are women.In French boardrooms, only 15% of executives in large French companies are women. A new law has set a quota for 40% by 2017.French law on sex-equality means that political parties fielding lists of candidates in elections must ensure 50% of the names are women. If not, the party's funding is cut accordingly. Some parties seem happier to take the financial hit than field women. In 2010, with 26% of women out of 588 candidates, Sarkozy's ruling rightwing UMP party lost over 4m euros.A female politician once told the story of how Lagarde would often ask company heads why there weren't more women in their boardrooms. If they replied that it was because there was a lack of candidates or women at that level, she would reportedly open her desk drawer, get out a pile of top women's CVs and hand them over. Women in French politics are hoping that spirit lives on in Paris after she leaves for Washington.", "tags": ["Women", "Women in politics"], "title": "Women on top in France?"},{"date": "2011-06-10T23:01:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "We are in the car, deep under the English Channel, and I\u00a0have earphones in. I'm listening to a French language CD, number eight of 12. Two people, a\u00a0man and a woman, are on the CD, learning along with me. At the beginning, the woman kept making silly mistakes, while the man and I\u00a0picked things up very quickly. I felt she was holding us back.Now that we've reached reflexives, however, the man is struggling. Like me, he speaks haltingly and forgets basic stuff. The woman, meanwhile, seems to have turned a corner. I feel myself drifting off.\"We're here,\" my wife says. \"You're driving.\"\"Je me l\u00e8ve maintentant,\" I say.The trip is a band thing \u2013 we've got two dates in Normandy \u2013 and an advance guard (two band members, two wives, three children) are staying at the cultural centre that is the site of the first gig: concert Blue-Grass par le groupe anglais, plus chicken. While we're shown round, my wife gabbles away in her special brand of French, consisting of the phrase \"C'est possible...?\" and\u00a0a dozen nouns, all glued together with total nonsense. To my\u00a0fury, she is able to make herself understood, whereas every time I open my mouth everyone looks at me as if I have two heads.That night we go out for pizza. I\u00a0walk into the restaurant with the middle one and place our order. The woman at the counter stares at me for a moment, then asks a question I\u00a0don't understand. For a\u00a0time it seems we have reached a linguistic stalemate, but finally she reaches for her pad. I go to sit with the others.\"Mum's French is way better than Dad's,\" says the middle one.\"That's rubbish,\" I say. \"She doesn't know any reflexive verbs.\"\"That woman didn't understand what you were saying,\" he says. \"She had to get a pencil and paper.\"\"Yes, but that was because...\"\"And all she wrote on the paper was a big question mark.\"\"That's a lie,\" I say.Next day, we pick up the fiddle player and his wife from the train station. When we return, it's clear that the proprietor of the cultural centre and his wife are cross because they were expecting us for lunch. Here, my lack of French serves me well: I try to explain, then shrug, then exhale with exasperation. The\u00a0fiddle player's wife, who speaks fluent French, takes over. They have what I\u00a0assume is a conversation about the unfortunate confusion. I\u00a0find they are all looking at me.\"Non,\" says the fiddle player's wife, \"il comprend tout.\"At 5pm, the rest of the band arrives with the news that the PA system hasn't turned up. By the time we've rigged a substitute, the barbecue has been lit and people are beginning to drift across the lawn. It's a beautiful evening, and we are set up facing a terrace. The proprietor is urging us to begin so people can eat at 9pm.When the first song begins, I have my back to the crowd. I play a few notes on the harmonica, and I know from experience that it's important to check I'm holding it the right way up. The sound is surprisingly good, and the song is lovely: slow, plaintive, a little haunting. I step up to the mic and do my part. Once I've managed the first few notes, I look up.I have seen restless audiences before. I have seen boredom, and I\u00a0have seen pained indulgence. But\u00a0I've never seen what I see now: 100 French people sitting on white plastic chairs, whose expressions betray not just bewilderment, but disapproval. It looks like a parole hearing. I glance down at my set list:\u00a0only 14 more songs, plus one more gig, to go.", "tags": ["Family", "Relationships", "Parents and parenting", "Life and style"], "title": "Tim Dowling: Lost in France"},{"date": "2011-05-07T23:04:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Just 300m from Plage de l'Am\u00e9lie, nestled among tall pines, sits the exemplary Camping de l'Oc\u00e9an, on the C\u00f4te d'Argent. When you're not building sandcastles or surfing the waves, you can cycle some of the 140km of bike tracks on the Medoc coast, taking in wild beaches, stunning lakes, ch\u00e2teau vineyards and scented pine forests.Camping de l'Oc\u00e9an, 62 all\u00e9e de la N\u00e9gade, 33780 Soulac-sur-Mer (00 33 5 56 09 76 10, camping.ocean.pagesperso-orange.fr). Tent plus two adults \u20ac23.50 per night. Open all yearSweet honeysuckle mingles with the aroma of fresh pastries and bread. Belle Vue campsite grants you breathtaking valley vistas while you munch on pain au chocolat. Over rolling fields you will spy the beautiful Ch\u00e2teau de Hautefort.Belle Vue, La Contie, 24390 Boisseuilh (00 33 5 53 51 62 71, dordogne-camping.org). Tent plus two adults \u20ac19 per night. Open 1 March-11 November. This may well be the friendliest ch\u00e2teau-camping experience in France. Le Br\u00e9vedent sits in the grounds of a Louis XVI hunting lodge, set in parkland with a lake and surrounded by woodland. It is operated by descendants of the Marquis de Chabannes La Palice, who opened the grounds to campers to help with postwar repairs. Most camp by the lake, where carp can be caught and canoes hired. The site is in the heart of Calvados country, with\u00a0regular tastings for adults and other apple-based activities for kids.Le Br\u00e9vedent, route du Pin, 14130 Le Br\u00e9vedent (00 33 2 31 64 72 88, campinglebrevedent.com). Tent plus\u00a0two adults \u20ac16 per night. Open 30\u00a0April-18 September. Le Clapas takes its name from the old Occitan word for a pile of stones. The stones come from the site's expansive private beach on the shores of the Ard\u00e8che river. If not right next to the river, pitches offer a view of its emerald waters, and all invite river-based play. Canoeing and kayaking are popular and the Pont d'Arc, a 60m natural stone bridge, is a pleasant hour's stroll away.Le Clapas, Salavas, 07150 Vallon Pont d'Arc (00 33 4 75 37 14 76, camping-le-clapas.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac14-22 per night. Open April-September. The Alpe d'Huez mountain dwarfs the smattering of colourful tents at Ferme No\u00e9mie. This high-altitude haven offers all manner of mountain sports, from the incredible 10-mile \"La Sarenne\" run to the challenge of cycling up the legendary 21 road hairpins of the Alpe d'Huez. Or just grab a glass of homemade cider, gaze at the snowy peaks and soak up those alpine rays. Ferme No\u00e9mie, Les Sables, 38520 Bourg d'Oisans (00 33 4 76 11 06 14, fermenoemie.com). Tent plus two\u00a0adults \u20ac15-24 per night. Open April-October. Au Bois Joli owners Henri\u00ebtte and Robert have plans for improvement though the site is staggering in its friendliness, reverence for wild flora and fauna, ecological outlook, location, views and facilities. If you catch either host during a quiet moment, they will happily tell you about the site's unique micro-environment and how they tend it. Camping au Bois Joli, route de Villeprenoy, 89480 Andryes (00 33 3 86 81 70 48, campingauboisjoli.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac14.35-20.50 per night. Open April-November. Don't be fooled by cheap imitations: these Gypsy caravans are the real deal. Here are five authentic circus roulottes restored to vintage condition. Some nuzzle up to a river, others sit in a field. A campfire will provide your principal cooking method.Les Roulottes, 41350 Les Marais, Huisseau-sur-Cosson (00 33 6 67 74 94 93, lesroulottes.fr). Roulottes (sleep 4-5) \u20ac310-450 per week. Open all year.This is a camping fantasy, from the romantic safari tents to the black granite pool. You can camp in the traditional way, but when each safari tent comes with a lavish interior, twinkling candelabras and a\u00a0verandah on which to sit with your glass of red, it's a shame not to give them a whirl. Sample the red wines of the Bergerac region or the sweet whites of Ch\u00e2teau de Monbazillac.Les Ormes, 47210 St \u00c9tienne de Viller\u00e9al (00 33 5 53 36 60 26, campinglesormes.com). Tent plus two\u00a0adults \u20ac10 per night; safari tents\u00a0\u20ac360-975 per week. Open 1 May-15 September. Just a hop, skip and ferry ride across the Channel, Etretat is a medieval town on the Normandy coast famed for its dramatic cliffs, natural arch and pebbly beach. This gem of a site is municipal camping par excellence. The facilities are sparkling, the service is friendly, and the bus from Le Havre stops right outside. Camping d'Etretat, 69 rue Guy de Maupassant, 76790 Etretat (00 33 2 35 27 07 67). Tent plus two adults \u20ac11.30. Open early April-mid October.  Surrounded by an undulating landscape of sunflowers, vineyards and wheat fields, this place in the Gers, \"French Tuscany\", is more yoga centre than campsite, but there are three pitches and a teepee. The area is famous for its foie gras and Armagnac, which you can pick up at the food markets in Lectoure, Fleurance and N\u00e9rac. Or if you fancy a gastronomic extravaganza, head to the Michelin-listed Le Logis du Cordeliers in Condom.Caudet Radha Yoga Centre, 32700 Marsolan, Gers (00 33 5 62 68 87 95, radhacaudet.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac20 per night; teepee \u20ac25 per person per night. Open all year. Extracted from Cool Camping France by Jonathan Knight, published by Punk Publishing at \u00a316.95 (coolcamping.co.uk)", "tags": ["Camping holidays", "Travel", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Yoga", "Life and style", "Family holidays", "Food and drink"], "title": "Camping in France: Canvas opinion"},{"date": "2011-06-28T23:47:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "As things stand, and the elections are a year away, a socialist is set to become the next president of France. Barring a dramatic comeback by Nicolas Sarkozy, and barring another midair explosion of the sort that knocked Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the skies, a France disillusioned with the quixotic and divisive leadership of the incumbent will turn to the centre-left for a calmer head and a safer pair of hands. If anything, the disaster which befell Lionel Jospin, the socialist candidate in 2002 who was knocked out in the first round by the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen, is more likely to recur on the right, as Mr Sarkozy suffers at the hands of Le Pen's cleverly rebranded daughter Marine. The big if in all this is whether the left can unite around a candidate with the ability to broadcast over the full bandwidth of politics.The two frontrunners for the socialist nomination are the former party leader Fran\u00e7ois Hollande \u2013 now thinner, less pally with journalists and more presidential \u2013 and his successor Martine Aubry, who launched her bid to become France's first woman president yesterday. There are differences between the two. Mr Hollande is more likely to attract votes from the centre-right. Indeed, the 78-year-old former president Jacques Chirac sent a Taser electroshock through the nervous system of the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace by saying he would vote for Mr Hollande next year. Mr Hollande brushed it off as a joke. Mr Sarkozy did not. The incident showed how vulnerable he is from both flanks, the far and centre-right.Ms Aubry, on the other hand, has greater appeal to the left as a whole. In 2008 she inherited the leadership of a party that was profoundly divided. She has since managed to knit together a party of polar opposites, the leftwing partisans of Laurent Fabius and those of Mr Strauss-Kahn. So that today she counts among her supporters not only key figures of the left but Strauss-Kahnians like Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis. She and Mr Hollande also differ on France's nuclear future. Ms Aubry has followed Germany's lead on this issue and is more likely to appeal to the greens.Both candidates are vulnerable to attack. A former labour minister best known for creating the 35-hour week, Ms Aubry has her work cut\u00a0out convincing those who run small businesses that France's future lies in more control, not less of it. Nothing will stop S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, Hollande's former wife, from entertaining the illusion that she can succeed in 2012 where she failed in 2007, and she may split the centre-left still further. In a Europe that has turned en bloc to the right, France is living up to its role as a land apart. The presidential contest of 2012 will not disappoint.", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "France", "Europe", "French elections 2012"], "title": "France: Socialist sunrise | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-10T03:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you have happy memories of childhood holidays spent camping in France, then the modern holiday parcs throughout the country are sure to please your own brood. These days, tents are just one of many kinds of accommodation \u2013 you can now take your pick from Gypsy caravans, tree houses and safari tents, as well as the traditional tents and mobile homes. With great facilities on the sites, there's no better reason to pack up the car, cruise across the Channel and enjoy a camping holiday.The prices were correct at the time of going to press; availability for late July and August may be limited at some campsitesAt the Domaine de Dienn\u00e9, tents and mobile homes are a thing of the past. Here, you can choose between colourful Gypsy caravans or star-gazing cabins complete with telescope, star-chart and a perspex ceiling. No need to come back down to earth for the activities on site either, with a tree-top adventure course and \"fun-trambo\" (a cross between bungee-jumping and trampolining), those with a sense of adventure are well catered for. For a futuristic day out, the excellent Futuroscope theme park is just 20 miles away. Meanwhile, those who would rather take it easy will appreciate the fresh bread and croissants delivered to the door each morning, and enjoy the pretty surrounding countryside. \u2022 +33 5 49 45 87 63, domaine-de-dienne.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights, including a Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3663 for a family of four starting August 20Vend\u00e9e, one of the best areas in France for a family holiday, is just four hours' drive from the ferry ports of Saint-Malo and Cherbourg and this peaceful site is within easy reach of the area's best attractions. From the gorgeous beaches at Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie and Les Sables d'Olonne, to the magnificent historical Puy de Fou theme park, children of all ages will adore a holiday here. The picturesque Camping La Garangeoire is set among lakes, meadows and woods and offers a host of activities, including crazy golf, trampolines and boating on the lake. \u2022 + 33 2 51 46 65 39, camping-la-garangeoire.com. Seven nights in July for two adults and up to four children staying in a three-bedroom Villagrand Deluxe mobile home costs from \u00a31,100, accommodation only. Ferry crossings or fly-drive packages can be arranged at a supplement through Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk)This peaceful lakeside site is ideal for \"tweenies\" and teenagers who can safely roam the 84-acre resort independently and enjoy activities such as mini-golf, cycling, karting and archery. There are also four pools and waterslides. The site itself offers a choice of tents, mobile homes or \u2013 for real camping softies \u2013 luxury log cabins complete with dishwashers and flatscreen TVs. The site is ideally situated for trips into Paris, just 90 minutes away by coach, or to Disneyland Paris, while the Chateau de Pierrefonds, the setting for the BBC TV series Merlin, is just a short drive away. \u2022 + 33 3 23 55 50 02, la-croix-du-vieux-pont.com; a seven-night stay in a holiday home sleeping up to six costs from \u20ac810-960 in the summer holidays. Also available through Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) If your kids are fans of fairy stories, then why not take them to the land of fantasy castles? This rural campsite is on the doorstep of one of the Loire's most magnificent ch\u00e2teaux, Ch\u00e2teau de Chambord. With a water park, tennis court and mini-golf to occupy the children, mum can practise her Sleeping Beauty routine at the small on-site spa. Accommodation comes in the shape of tents and mobile homes, while the tree houses provide the perfect abode for your own little Hansels and Gretels. \u2022 + 33 2 54 87 05 42, camping-des-marais.com. Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk) offers seven nights from 17 August for two adults and two children in a supertent, with Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3790 The Dordogne has long been a favourite destination for family holidays, and this picturesque parc is close to the River Dordogne, the medieval town of Sarlat and the cliff-top Chateau Beynac. The site's restaurant, reception, shop and bar are housed in beautiful golden stone Perigordin buildings, and many pitches enjoy beautiful views of the surrounding countryside. Parents can get some personal space in the Mezzanine mobile homes, which come with a separate children's play room above the main living area. There are both indoor and outdoor swimming pool complexes, waterslides and evening entertainment. \u2022 +33 5 53 02 64 00, saint-avit-loisirs.com. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers seven nights in luxury tent from 16 August for \u00a3759 (sleeps up to six), accommodation onlyThis relatively undiscovered area of France is a haven for foodies and the on-site restaurant at Camping Val de Cantobre doesn't disappoint. It is set in a beautifully converted mill, with lovely oak beams, serves a variety of local dishes and is popular with locals. The small and popular site is surrounded by spectacular scenery, making it perfect for those with a spirit of adventure; activities on offer include canyoning, rock-climbing and horse-riding. There are also four swimming pools on site and both tents and mobile homes are available. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights in a Classic two-bedroom mobile home from 1 July for \u00a3648, including P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing. Seven nights in a Maxi Tent from 20 August costs \u00a3777At this beachside site on the south coast of Brittany, there's something for all the family; mum and dad can use the spa and well equipped gym, while the kids can enjoy the large covered pool, waterslides, play areas and children's club in July and August. The nearest beach is ideal for poking around in rock pools and the town \u2013 with its large beach, bars and restaurants \u2013 is a 15-minute walk away. To top it all, the site is set in a beautiful area of France and has lovely views across the bay. \u2022 + 33 2 98 57 05 37, escale-stgilles.fr. Matthews Holidays (01483 284044, matthewsfrance.co.uk) offers seven nights from \u00a3756 to \u00a3967 per family in the summer holidays, including midweek Dover-Calais ferry crossing for two adults and up to three children\u00a0If the thought of a long car journey fills you with dread, then this large and lively campsite is the one for you. Just 22 miles from the ferry port of Saint-Malo, it is set in the grounds of a chateau, and has a fantastic choice of accommodation. Thatched woodland lodges and treehouses are available as well as the usual tents and mobile homes. There is a riding school on site and the fantastic water park includes an indoor pool and slides, making it ideal for children of all ages. \u2022 + 33 2 99 73 53 00, lesormes.co.uk. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven-nights in a Maxi Tent for two adults and all children, including return off-peak P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3930 in mid-August or \u00a3734 from 25 AugustFor a taste of Provencal village life, head to this small site in the foothills of the Massif des Maures in the Var department. Activities on offer include boules, tennis, football and volleyball, and there are two swimming pools with water slides. Half an hour away are the beaches of Fr\u00e9jus, Saint-Rapha\u00ebl and Saint Aygulf, while Saint-Tropez, Grasse, Cannes and the spectacular Gorge du Verdon are all about an hour's drive away. The sunnier climes of the Riviera lend themselves to outdoor living and Eurocamp's luxurious safari tents, complete with comfy beds, wooden deck and equipped kitchen, allow you to do so in style. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers a seven-night stay from 23 August for \u00a3604.80 per family in a Safari Tent (sleeps up to 6 people, maximum 4 adults), accommodation onlyPerched on the edge of Lake Biscarrosse with its gentle sloping beach, La R\u00e9serve offers a wide choice of water sports including waterskiing, sailing and canoeing. There is a variety of mobile homes on offer, and the site has bars, a restaurant, a take-away and gas-fired barbecues to use. The surrounding area offers wide, sweeping beaches on the Aquitaine coast 13 miles away, and the jaw-dropping Dune de Pyla (the highest dune in Europe) is a little further north. Foodies and wine lovers can enjoy the oysters on offer at Arcachon and the wineries of Saint-Emilion and in Bordeaux. \u2022 + 33 5 58 09 74 79. Siblu (0871 911 7777, siblu.com) offers seven nights in a two-bedroom Esprit holiday home from 17 July from \u00a3873.30 (sleeps up to six) Carolyn Boyd is editor of France Magazine", "tags": ["France holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Provence holidays", "Top 10s", "Summer holidays"], "title": "Family camping in France"},{"date": "2011-04-25T17:23:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those who followed the adventures of Antoine Doinel (played by Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud) in a series of lyrical and semi-autobiographical films directed by Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut \u2013 incorporating adolescence, marriage, fatherhood and divorce \u2013 will know that Doinel's first and (perhaps) last love, Colette Tazzi, was played by the stunningly beautiful Marie-France Pisier, who has been found dead aged 66 in the swimming pool of her house near Toulon, in southern France.Doinel and audiences first caught sight of Pisier in Antoine et Colette, Truffaut's enchanting 32-minute contribution to the omnibus film L'Amour \u00e0 Vingt Ans (Love at Twenty, 1962), during a concert at the Salle Pleyel in Paris of Hector Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique. She is conscious of Antoine's stares, and pulls down her skirt. We soon realise that Colette is going to break Antoine's heart.L\u00e9aud and Pisier were born in the same month and were both 18 when they appeared in the film. Pisier was discovered by a casting director, who had been instructed by Truffaut that: \"Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud's partner must be a real young girl, not a Lolita, not a biker type, nor a little woman. She must be fresh and cheerful. Not too sexy.\"Colette, who treats Antoine like a \"buddy\", much to his frustration, runs into him again briefly in Baisers Vol\u00e9s (Stolen Kisses, 1968) and, finally, in the last film of the series, L'Amour en Fuite (Love On the Run, 1979), which she co-wrote. By then Colette was a lawyer, divorced like Antoine, but far more emotionally mature. The film contained what Truffaut called \"real flashbacks\", when we see the differences between Pisier in her screen debut and Pisier 17 years and more than 20 films later, when she was midway through a prestigious career. She worked with such auteurs as Luis Bu\u00f1uel, Jacques Rivette and Ra\u00fal Ruiz, appearing in quality French mainstream movies, with a short and unhappy detour to Hollywood.Pisier was born in French Indochina, now Vietnam, where her father served as colonial governor. She moved to Paris with her family when she was 12. While starting out in films, she completed degrees in jurisprudence and political science at Paris University.After she had appeared in several mediocre genre films, including thrillers directed by the actor Robert Hossein, Pisier's career took a more interesting turn. In 1974, she appeared in the most outrageous and amusing sequence in Bu\u00f1uel's penultimate film, Le Fant\u00f4me de la Libert\u00e9 (The Phantom of Liberty), where she is among the elegant guests seated on individual lavatories around a table from which they excuse themselves to go and eat in a little room behind a locked door. In the same year, in C\u00e9line et Julie Vont en Bateau (C\u00e9line and Julie Go Boating), Rivette's brilliantly allusive comic meditation on the nature of fiction, she and Bulle Ogier act out, in a stylised and exquisite manner, a creaky melodrama in a mysterious house.Pisier was cast by the director Andr\u00e9 T\u00e9chin\u00e9 in several of his early films, including Barocco (1976), for which she won a C\u00e9sar award for her supporting role as a prostitute with a baby in tow. She later played Charlotte Bront\u00eb, alongside Isabelle Adjani (as Emily) and Isabelle Huppert (as Anne) in T\u00e9chin\u00e9's Les Soeurs Bront\u00eb (1979).Her performance as a frivolous, neurotic wife in Jean-Charles Tacchella's Cousin Cousine (1975), a hit in the US, led to her starring role in The Other Side of Midnight (1977), a Hollywood soap opera in which she almost overcame the cliches as a naive French girl who, betrayed by an American pilot, begins to use men for their money and power.But subsequently, apart from French Postcards (1979), in which, according to the critic Roger Ebert, \"Marie-France Pisier, her jet-black hair framing her startling red lipstick, is the kind of dark Gallic woman-of-a-certain-age who knocks your socks off\", she was little seen in English-language movies. Among the rare exceptions was Chanel Solitaire (1981), in which she portrayed the designer Coco Chanel with her usual elegance. She made a splendid Madame Verdurin in Ruiz's Proust adaptation, Le Temps Retrouv\u00e9 (Time Regained, 1999), and was ethereal in the same director's magical Combat d'Amour en Songe (2000). More recently, she was an iconic presence in Christophe Honor\u00e9's homage to the French new wave, Dans Paris (2006). Pisier also directed two films, Le Bal du Gouverneur (The Governor's Party, 1990), starring Kristin Scott Thomas and adapted from Pisier's own novel about some of her childhood spent in New Caledonia in the Pacific, and Comme un Avion (Like an Airplane, 2002), a family drama based on the death of her own parents.Pisier was an outspoken defender of women's rights and legal abortion. She overcame breast cancer in the 1990s. Her first husband was the lawyer Georges Kiejman, with whom she had a son. She is survived by her second husband, Thierry Funck-Brentano, a businessman; her brother, Gilles; and her sister, Evelyne.\u2022 Marie-France Pisier, actor, writer, director, born 10 May 1944; died 24 April 2011", "tags": ["Film", "France", "Culture", "Europe", "Books"], "title": "Marie-France Pisier obituary"},{"date": "2011-06-29T15:25:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Christine Lagarde's appointment as the first woman head of the IMF is a victory for French feminism. The first woman finance minister in France (or indeed any large, industrialised country) she has long been a champion of more women and less \"libido\" and \"testosterone\" in banking and politics.With Lagarde now arguably the world's most powerful woman, the left's Martine Aubry bidding this week to be France's first female president and Marine Le Pen's high poll ratings as head of the extreme-right Front National, it might look as if it's a boom-time for women in French politics. But the picture is more nuanced than that. French feminists' verdict on the female score-card of French politics is: could do far better.When Nicolas Sarkozy was elected in 2007, he wanted half his cabinet to be women, something he has never quite achieved. He started out with several women in major posts, including Rachida Dati in justice, and Lagarde in finance, but the numbers have progressively dwindled. Currently, of 23 ministers, seven are women. Of eight junior ministers, three are women. Sarkozy was under pressure to include important jobs for women in his post-Lagarde reshuffle this afternoon, but made only small gestures towards women; the most important was Valerie Pecresse taking budget portfolio and being made government spokesman.On the opposition front, both Aubry and Le Pen are \"daughters of\" famous political fathers, carrying the weight of political dynasties and often asked about their fathers' influence, which is assumed to define their political moves. Both are feminists and say they are their own people. Aubry, the daughter of Jacques Delors, former Socialist finance minister and president of the European Commission, acknowledged in her presidential bid speech this week that she had learned a lot from her family. Le Pen works with and consults with hers.Another woman could enter the presidential race next month if Eva Joly, the investigative judge who relentlessly pursued major French corruption cases, wins the Green ticket. The party's primary race is expected to go to a second round vote on July 12.After the New York arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn over the alleged attempted rape of a New York hotel worker last month, there has been an outpouring against sexism and sex-discrimination in France. When one woman minister complained she no longer felt comfortable wearing a skirt in parliament, many female politicians agreed. Lagarde's appointment to the IMF has lifted the mood. But it will take more than one woman to turn around the statistics.Women MPs make up 18.5% of parliament, compared to 21% in the UK, 33% in Germany and 46% in Sweden. Less than a quarter of French Senators are women.In French boardrooms, only 15% of executives in large French companies are women. A new law has set a quota for 40% by 2017.French law on sex-equality means that political parties fielding lists of candidates in elections must ensure 50% of the names are women. If not, the party's funding is cut accordingly. Some parties seem happier to take the financial hit than field women. In 2010, with 26% of women out of 588 candidates, Sarkozy's ruling rightwing UMP party lost over 4m euros.A female politician once told the story of how Lagarde would often ask company heads why there weren't more women in their boardrooms. If they replied that it was because there was a lack of candidates or women at that level, she would reportedly open her desk drawer, get out a pile of top women's CVs and hand them over. Women in French politics are hoping that spirit lives on in Paris after she leaves for Washington.", "tags": ["Women", "Women in politics"], "title": "Women on top in France?"},{"date": "2011-06-10T23:01:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "We are in the car, deep under the English Channel, and I\u00a0have earphones in. I'm listening to a French language CD, number eight of 12. Two people, a\u00a0man and a woman, are on the CD, learning along with me. At the beginning, the woman kept making silly mistakes, while the man and I\u00a0picked things up very quickly. I felt she was holding us back.Now that we've reached reflexives, however, the man is struggling. Like me, he speaks haltingly and forgets basic stuff. The woman, meanwhile, seems to have turned a corner. I feel myself drifting off.\"We're here,\" my wife says. \"You're driving.\"\"Je me l\u00e8ve maintentant,\" I say.The trip is a band thing \u2013 we've got two dates in Normandy \u2013 and an advance guard (two band members, two wives, three children) are staying at the cultural centre that is the site of the first gig: concert Blue-Grass par le groupe anglais, plus chicken. While we're shown round, my wife gabbles away in her special brand of French, consisting of the phrase \"C'est possible...?\" and\u00a0a dozen nouns, all glued together with total nonsense. To my\u00a0fury, she is able to make herself understood, whereas every time I open my mouth everyone looks at me as if I have two heads.That night we go out for pizza. I\u00a0walk into the restaurant with the middle one and place our order. The woman at the counter stares at me for a moment, then asks a question I\u00a0don't understand. For a\u00a0time it seems we have reached a linguistic stalemate, but finally she reaches for her pad. I go to sit with the others.\"Mum's French is way better than Dad's,\" says the middle one.\"That's rubbish,\" I say. \"She doesn't know any reflexive verbs.\"\"That woman didn't understand what you were saying,\" he says. \"She had to get a pencil and paper.\"\"Yes, but that was because...\"\"And all she wrote on the paper was a big question mark.\"\"That's a lie,\" I say.Next day, we pick up the fiddle player and his wife from the train station. When we return, it's clear that the proprietor of the cultural centre and his wife are cross because they were expecting us for lunch. Here, my lack of French serves me well: I try to explain, then shrug, then exhale with exasperation. The\u00a0fiddle player's wife, who speaks fluent French, takes over. They have what I\u00a0assume is a conversation about the unfortunate confusion. I\u00a0find they are all looking at me.\"Non,\" says the fiddle player's wife, \"il comprend tout.\"At 5pm, the rest of the band arrives with the news that the PA system hasn't turned up. By the time we've rigged a substitute, the barbecue has been lit and people are beginning to drift across the lawn. It's a beautiful evening, and we are set up facing a terrace. The proprietor is urging us to begin so people can eat at 9pm.When the first song begins, I have my back to the crowd. I play a few notes on the harmonica, and I know from experience that it's important to check I'm holding it the right way up. The sound is surprisingly good, and the song is lovely: slow, plaintive, a little haunting. I step up to the mic and do my part. Once I've managed the first few notes, I look up.I have seen restless audiences before. I have seen boredom, and I\u00a0have seen pained indulgence. But\u00a0I've never seen what I see now: 100 French people sitting on white plastic chairs, whose expressions betray not just bewilderment, but disapproval. It looks like a parole hearing. I glance down at my set list:\u00a0only 14 more songs, plus one more gig, to go.", "tags": ["Family", "Relationships", "Parents and parenting", "Life and style"], "title": "Tim Dowling: Lost in France"},{"date": "2011-05-07T23:04:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Just 300m from Plage de l'Am\u00e9lie, nestled among tall pines, sits the exemplary Camping de l'Oc\u00e9an, on the C\u00f4te d'Argent. When you're not building sandcastles or surfing the waves, you can cycle some of the 140km of bike tracks on the Medoc coast, taking in wild beaches, stunning lakes, ch\u00e2teau vineyards and scented pine forests.Camping de l'Oc\u00e9an, 62 all\u00e9e de la N\u00e9gade, 33780 Soulac-sur-Mer (00 33 5 56 09 76 10, camping.ocean.pagesperso-orange.fr). Tent plus two adults \u20ac23.50 per night. Open all yearSweet honeysuckle mingles with the aroma of fresh pastries and bread. Belle Vue campsite grants you breathtaking valley vistas while you munch on pain au chocolat. Over rolling fields you will spy the beautiful Ch\u00e2teau de Hautefort.Belle Vue, La Contie, 24390 Boisseuilh (00 33 5 53 51 62 71, dordogne-camping.org). Tent plus two adults \u20ac19 per night. Open 1 March-11 November. This may well be the friendliest ch\u00e2teau-camping experience in France. Le Br\u00e9vedent sits in the grounds of a Louis XVI hunting lodge, set in parkland with a lake and surrounded by woodland. It is operated by descendants of the Marquis de Chabannes La Palice, who opened the grounds to campers to help with postwar repairs. Most camp by the lake, where carp can be caught and canoes hired. The site is in the heart of Calvados country, with\u00a0regular tastings for adults and other apple-based activities for kids.Le Br\u00e9vedent, route du Pin, 14130 Le Br\u00e9vedent (00 33 2 31 64 72 88, campinglebrevedent.com). Tent plus\u00a0two adults \u20ac16 per night. Open 30\u00a0April-18 September. Le Clapas takes its name from the old Occitan word for a pile of stones. The stones come from the site's expansive private beach on the shores of the Ard\u00e8che river. If not right next to the river, pitches offer a view of its emerald waters, and all invite river-based play. Canoeing and kayaking are popular and the Pont d'Arc, a 60m natural stone bridge, is a pleasant hour's stroll away.Le Clapas, Salavas, 07150 Vallon Pont d'Arc (00 33 4 75 37 14 76, camping-le-clapas.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac14-22 per night. Open April-September. The Alpe d'Huez mountain dwarfs the smattering of colourful tents at Ferme No\u00e9mie. This high-altitude haven offers all manner of mountain sports, from the incredible 10-mile \"La Sarenne\" run to the challenge of cycling up the legendary 21 road hairpins of the Alpe d'Huez. Or just grab a glass of homemade cider, gaze at the snowy peaks and soak up those alpine rays. Ferme No\u00e9mie, Les Sables, 38520 Bourg d'Oisans (00 33 4 76 11 06 14, fermenoemie.com). Tent plus two\u00a0adults \u20ac15-24 per night. Open April-October. Au Bois Joli owners Henri\u00ebtte and Robert have plans for improvement though the site is staggering in its friendliness, reverence for wild flora and fauna, ecological outlook, location, views and facilities. If you catch either host during a quiet moment, they will happily tell you about the site's unique micro-environment and how they tend it. Camping au Bois Joli, route de Villeprenoy, 89480 Andryes (00 33 3 86 81 70 48, campingauboisjoli.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac14.35-20.50 per night. Open April-November. Don't be fooled by cheap imitations: these Gypsy caravans are the real deal. Here are five authentic circus roulottes restored to vintage condition. Some nuzzle up to a river, others sit in a field. A campfire will provide your principal cooking method.Les Roulottes, 41350 Les Marais, Huisseau-sur-Cosson (00 33 6 67 74 94 93, lesroulottes.fr). Roulottes (sleep 4-5) \u20ac310-450 per week. Open all year.This is a camping fantasy, from the romantic safari tents to the black granite pool. You can camp in the traditional way, but when each safari tent comes with a lavish interior, twinkling candelabras and a\u00a0verandah on which to sit with your glass of red, it's a shame not to give them a whirl. Sample the red wines of the Bergerac region or the sweet whites of Ch\u00e2teau de Monbazillac.Les Ormes, 47210 St \u00c9tienne de Viller\u00e9al (00 33 5 53 36 60 26, campinglesormes.com). Tent plus two\u00a0adults \u20ac10 per night; safari tents\u00a0\u20ac360-975 per week. Open 1 May-15 September. Just a hop, skip and ferry ride across the Channel, Etretat is a medieval town on the Normandy coast famed for its dramatic cliffs, natural arch and pebbly beach. This gem of a site is municipal camping par excellence. The facilities are sparkling, the service is friendly, and the bus from Le Havre stops right outside. Camping d'Etretat, 69 rue Guy de Maupassant, 76790 Etretat (00 33 2 35 27 07 67). Tent plus two adults \u20ac11.30. Open early April-mid October.  Surrounded by an undulating landscape of sunflowers, vineyards and wheat fields, this place in the Gers, \"French Tuscany\", is more yoga centre than campsite, but there are three pitches and a teepee. The area is famous for its foie gras and Armagnac, which you can pick up at the food markets in Lectoure, Fleurance and N\u00e9rac. Or if you fancy a gastronomic extravaganza, head to the Michelin-listed Le Logis du Cordeliers in Condom.Caudet Radha Yoga Centre, 32700 Marsolan, Gers (00 33 5 62 68 87 95, radhacaudet.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac20 per night; teepee \u20ac25 per person per night. Open all year. Extracted from Cool Camping France by Jonathan Knight, published by Punk Publishing at \u00a316.95 (coolcamping.co.uk)", "tags": ["Camping holidays", "Travel", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Yoga", "Life and style", "Family holidays", "Food and drink"], "title": "Camping in France: Canvas opinion"},{"date": "2011-06-28T08:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "It may have been buried the day it was leaked to the press, but the Goasguen report, addressing the issue of dual nationality in France, is interesting on many levels.French MP Claude Goasguen's report was in fact \"a project for a report\", that is to say the mere beginning of an idea for a possible report, which would then have needed to be debated by a parliamentary commission to become a potential bill, then discussed by both chambers of parliament. This was never going to be more than the possibility of a debate. Lib\u00e9ration leaked the most controversial of Goasguen's 230-page work document before it even got to the desk of the newly created parliamentarian committee on nationality.One of the many recommendations was to restrict dual nationality. In specific instances, someone applying for French nationality might be asked to renounce their other nationality, or someone born in France of foreign parents might have to choose one nationality, and one only, on reaching 18.The day this was leaked, a government spokesman, Fran\u00e7ois Barouin, said that Nicolas Sarkozy's government was not in favour of such propositions. The Green and potential presidential candidate Eva Joly, herself Franco-Norwegian, denounced such a \"scandalously populist\" proposal. Apart from Marine Le Pen, the National Front leader who had written to the 577 French MPs asking for the end of dual nationality a few weeks earlier, no voice from either right or left came to the rescue of Goasguen, who immediately backtracked. Some were wittier than others \u2013 such as Causeur magazine.This episode is symptomatic of two trends in French politics: the influence of the extreme right in setting the national political agenda and the difficulty of debating controversial issues. It is precisely because of a refusal to engage in difficult conversations at a national level that the National Front manages to hijack important topics. Instead of screaming when a dubious proposal is suggested, why don't we serenely try to understand where it all comes from?So where do Goasguen's proposals come from? From a series of events, speeches and facts, some going back a century. A year ago Sarkozy, in a speech he made in Grenoble, pandered to the National Front by announcing that criminals of foreign origin convicted of the murders of policemen or of any national representatives would lose their French nationality. It was one of Sarkozy's now well-known emotional and calculated speeches whose sole purpose is to cater for a particular fringe of the electorate at a given time, usually taking place straight after an incident (riots, murders, any event that would strike the country's psyche). As often with Sarkozy's announcements, they are undoable or unconstitutional. What he's looking for each time he speaks is to stun his audience, in which he certainly succeeds.More recently, in April, the French football team's coach, Laurent Blanc, came under attack after he was secretly recorded raising the issue of having dual-nationality players in the French team. Blanc was asking whether there should be a quota of 30% of dual-nationals to limit potential defections during international competition. Former colleague Zinedine Zidane backed Blanc, but Lilian Thuram criticised him. The outrage was such that the questions raised by Blanc in the clumsiest terms were buried once and for all.In 2001 and 2002, at international matches (for instance, between France and Algeria), second- and third-generation French supporters booed the Marseillaise. At one match, the president, Jacques Chirac, felt he had to leave the stadium. These images shocked a country not used, at the time, to ethnic dissension. France then saw the November 2005 banlieues unrest and has, unfortunately, got used to the rise of such feeling, only exacerbated by the divisive nature of Sarkozy's policies and temperament.Booing the Marseillaise is a very symbolic gesture, especially when it comes from French nationals. France was built on an unwritten national contract, that of a community sharing not only the same geography but also a sense of a common destiny. The Republican model is that of integration and togetherness, not of peaceful cohabitation between separate communities, as with multiculturalism. Integration supposes a will to integrate and a desire to live together. Since the 1960s, the French left has shied away from any debates brushing on anything linked with, in its eyes, the awful word of \"nationalism\", forgetting that the political concept born in the 1840s was a progressive one.The contemporary French left has always found the Marseillaise, for instance, an embarrassing and cumbersome heritage. It is not sung for fear of looking too chauvinistic. However, to see it booed by fellow compatriots is another thing. A sign, surely, that something deep within France has gone awry. The Socialist party has chosen \u2013 as with many problems in France \u2013 to close its eyes, leaving the right, led by the National Front, to put it back on the table in the most preposterous way, as Goasguen did last week. The French left and centre-right should have the courage to debate difficult questions such as ethnic dissension, instead of just screaming until the other camp shuts up.", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France needs to talk about nationality | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-06-28T23:47:44Z", "country": "france", "content": "As things stand, and the elections are a year away, a socialist is set to become the next president of France. Barring a dramatic comeback by Nicolas Sarkozy, and barring another midair explosion of the sort that knocked Dominique Strauss-Kahn out of the skies, a France disillusioned with the quixotic and divisive leadership of the incumbent will turn to the centre-left for a calmer head and a safer pair of hands. If anything, the disaster which befell Lionel Jospin, the socialist candidate in 2002 who was knocked out in the first round by the far-right Jean-Marie Le Pen, is more likely to recur on the right, as Mr Sarkozy suffers at the hands of Le Pen's cleverly rebranded daughter Marine. The big if in all this is whether the left can unite around a candidate with the ability to broadcast over the full bandwidth of politics.The two frontrunners for the socialist nomination are the former party leader Fran\u00e7ois Hollande \u2013 now thinner, less pally with journalists and more presidential \u2013 and his successor Martine Aubry, who launched her bid to become France's first woman president yesterday. There are differences between the two. Mr Hollande is more likely to attract votes from the centre-right. Indeed, the 78-year-old former president Jacques Chirac sent a Taser electroshock through the nervous system of the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace by saying he would vote for Mr Hollande next year. Mr Hollande brushed it off as a joke. Mr Sarkozy did not. The incident showed how vulnerable he is from both flanks, the far and centre-right.Ms Aubry, on the other hand, has greater appeal to the left as a whole. In 2008 she inherited the leadership of a party that was profoundly divided. She has since managed to knit together a party of polar opposites, the leftwing partisans of Laurent Fabius and those of Mr Strauss-Kahn. So that today she counts among her supporters not only key figures of the left but Strauss-Kahnians like Jean-Christophe Cambad\u00e9lis. She and Mr Hollande also differ on France's nuclear future. Ms Aubry has followed Germany's lead on this issue and is more likely to appeal to the greens.Both candidates are vulnerable to attack. A former labour minister best known for creating the 35-hour week, Ms Aubry has her work cut\u00a0out convincing those who run small businesses that France's future lies in more control, not less of it. Nothing will stop S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, Hollande's former wife, from entertaining the illusion that she can succeed in 2012 where she failed in 2007, and she may split the centre-left still further. In a Europe that has turned en bloc to the right, France is living up to its role as a land apart. The presidential contest of 2012 will not disappoint.", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "France", "Europe", "French elections 2012"], "title": "France: Socialist sunrise | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-06-10T03:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you have happy memories of childhood holidays spent camping in France, then the modern holiday parcs throughout the country are sure to please your own brood. These days, tents are just one of many kinds of accommodation \u2013 you can now take your pick from Gypsy caravans, tree houses and safari tents, as well as the traditional tents and mobile homes. With great facilities on the sites, there's no better reason to pack up the car, cruise across the Channel and enjoy a camping holiday.The prices were correct at the time of going to press; availability for late July and August may be limited at some campsitesAt the Domaine de Dienn\u00e9, tents and mobile homes are a thing of the past. Here, you can choose between colourful Gypsy caravans or star-gazing cabins complete with telescope, star-chart and a perspex ceiling. No need to come back down to earth for the activities on site either, with a tree-top adventure course and \"fun-trambo\" (a cross between bungee-jumping and trampolining), those with a sense of adventure are well catered for. For a futuristic day out, the excellent Futuroscope theme park is just 20 miles away. Meanwhile, those who would rather take it easy will appreciate the fresh bread and croissants delivered to the door each morning, and enjoy the pretty surrounding countryside. \u2022 +33 5 49 45 87 63, domaine-de-dienne.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights, including a Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3663 for a family of four starting August 20Vend\u00e9e, one of the best areas in France for a family holiday, is just four hours' drive from the ferry ports of Saint-Malo and Cherbourg and this peaceful site is within easy reach of the area's best attractions. From the gorgeous beaches at Saint-Gilles-Croix-de-Vie and Les Sables d'Olonne, to the magnificent historical Puy de Fou theme park, children of all ages will adore a holiday here. The picturesque Camping La Garangeoire is set among lakes, meadows and woods and offers a host of activities, including crazy golf, trampolines and boating on the lake. \u2022 + 33 2 51 46 65 39, camping-la-garangeoire.com. Seven nights in July for two adults and up to four children staying in a three-bedroom Villagrand Deluxe mobile home costs from \u00a31,100, accommodation only. Ferry crossings or fly-drive packages can be arranged at a supplement through Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk)This peaceful lakeside site is ideal for \"tweenies\" and teenagers who can safely roam the 84-acre resort independently and enjoy activities such as mini-golf, cycling, karting and archery. There are also four pools and waterslides. The site itself offers a choice of tents, mobile homes or \u2013 for real camping softies \u2013 luxury log cabins complete with dishwashers and flatscreen TVs. The site is ideally situated for trips into Paris, just 90 minutes away by coach, or to Disneyland Paris, while the Chateau de Pierrefonds, the setting for the BBC TV series Merlin, is just a short drive away. \u2022 + 33 3 23 55 50 02, la-croix-du-vieux-pont.com; a seven-night stay in a holiday home sleeping up to six costs from \u20ac810-960 in the summer holidays. Also available through Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) If your kids are fans of fairy stories, then why not take them to the land of fantasy castles? This rural campsite is on the doorstep of one of the Loire's most magnificent ch\u00e2teaux, Ch\u00e2teau de Chambord. With a water park, tennis court and mini-golf to occupy the children, mum can practise her Sleeping Beauty routine at the small on-site spa. Accommodation comes in the shape of tents and mobile homes, while the tree houses provide the perfect abode for your own little Hansels and Gretels. \u2022 + 33 2 54 87 05 42, camping-des-marais.com. Keycamp (0844 406 0200, keycamp.co.uk) offers seven nights from 17 August for two adults and two children in a supertent, with Dover to Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3790 The Dordogne has long been a favourite destination for family holidays, and this picturesque parc is close to the River Dordogne, the medieval town of Sarlat and the cliff-top Chateau Beynac. The site's restaurant, reception, shop and bar are housed in beautiful golden stone Perigordin buildings, and many pitches enjoy beautiful views of the surrounding countryside. Parents can get some personal space in the Mezzanine mobile homes, which come with a separate children's play room above the main living area. There are both indoor and outdoor swimming pool complexes, waterslides and evening entertainment. \u2022 +33 5 53 02 64 00, saint-avit-loisirs.com. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers seven nights in luxury tent from 16 August for \u00a3759 (sleeps up to six), accommodation onlyThis relatively undiscovered area of France is a haven for foodies and the on-site restaurant at Camping Val de Cantobre doesn't disappoint. It is set in a beautifully converted mill, with lovely oak beams, serves a variety of local dishes and is popular with locals. The small and popular site is surrounded by spectacular scenery, making it perfect for those with a spirit of adventure; activities on offer include canyoning, rock-climbing and horse-riding. There are also four swimming pools on site and both tents and mobile homes are available. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven nights in a Classic two-bedroom mobile home from 1 July for \u00a3648, including P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing. Seven nights in a Maxi Tent from 20 August costs \u00a3777At this beachside site on the south coast of Brittany, there's something for all the family; mum and dad can use the spa and well equipped gym, while the kids can enjoy the large covered pool, waterslides, play areas and children's club in July and August. The nearest beach is ideal for poking around in rock pools and the town \u2013 with its large beach, bars and restaurants \u2013 is a 15-minute walk away. To top it all, the site is set in a beautiful area of France and has lovely views across the bay. \u2022 + 33 2 98 57 05 37, escale-stgilles.fr. Matthews Holidays (01483 284044, matthewsfrance.co.uk) offers seven nights from \u00a3756 to \u00a3967 per family in the summer holidays, including midweek Dover-Calais ferry crossing for two adults and up to three children\u00a0If the thought of a long car journey fills you with dread, then this large and lively campsite is the one for you. Just 22 miles from the ferry port of Saint-Malo, it is set in the grounds of a chateau, and has a fantastic choice of accommodation. Thatched woodland lodges and treehouses are available as well as the usual tents and mobile homes. There is a riding school on site and the fantastic water park includes an indoor pool and slides, making it ideal for children of all ages. \u2022 + 33 2 99 73 53 00, lesormes.co.uk. Canvas Holidays (0845 268 0853, canvasholidays.co.uk) offers seven-nights in a Maxi Tent for two adults and all children, including return off-peak P&O Dover-Calais ferry crossing, from \u00a3930 in mid-August or \u00a3734 from 25 AugustFor a taste of Provencal village life, head to this small site in the foothills of the Massif des Maures in the Var department. Activities on offer include boules, tennis, football and volleyball, and there are two swimming pools with water slides. Half an hour away are the beaches of Fr\u00e9jus, Saint-Rapha\u00ebl and Saint Aygulf, while Saint-Tropez, Grasse, Cannes and the spectacular Gorge du Verdon are all about an hour's drive away. The sunnier climes of the Riviera lend themselves to outdoor living and Eurocamp's luxurious safari tents, complete with comfy beds, wooden deck and equipped kitchen, allow you to do so in style. \u2022 rcn-campings.fr. Eurocamp (0844 406 0402, eurocamp.co.uk) offers a seven-night stay from 23 August for \u00a3604.80 per family in a Safari Tent (sleeps up to 6 people, maximum 4 adults), accommodation onlyPerched on the edge of Lake Biscarrosse with its gentle sloping beach, La R\u00e9serve offers a wide choice of water sports including waterskiing, sailing and canoeing. There is a variety of mobile homes on offer, and the site has bars, a restaurant, a take-away and gas-fired barbecues to use. The surrounding area offers wide, sweeping beaches on the Aquitaine coast 13 miles away, and the jaw-dropping Dune de Pyla (the highest dune in Europe) is a little further north. Foodies and wine lovers can enjoy the oysters on offer at Arcachon and the wineries of Saint-Emilion and in Bordeaux. \u2022 + 33 5 58 09 74 79. Siblu (0871 911 7777, siblu.com) offers seven nights in a two-bedroom Esprit holiday home from 17 July from \u00a3873.30 (sleeps up to six) Carolyn Boyd is editor of France Magazine", "tags": ["France holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Brittany holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Provence holidays", "Top 10s", "Summer holidays"], "title": "Family camping in France"},{"date": "2011-04-25T17:23:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "Those who followed the adventures of Antoine Doinel (played by Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud) in a series of lyrical and semi-autobiographical films directed by Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut \u2013 incorporating adolescence, marriage, fatherhood and divorce \u2013 will know that Doinel's first and (perhaps) last love, Colette Tazzi, was played by the stunningly beautiful Marie-France Pisier, who has been found dead aged 66 in the swimming pool of her house near Toulon, in southern France.Doinel and audiences first caught sight of Pisier in Antoine et Colette, Truffaut's enchanting 32-minute contribution to the omnibus film L'Amour \u00e0 Vingt Ans (Love at Twenty, 1962), during a concert at the Salle Pleyel in Paris of Hector Berlioz's Symphonie Fantastique. She is conscious of Antoine's stares, and pulls down her skirt. We soon realise that Colette is going to break Antoine's heart.L\u00e9aud and Pisier were born in the same month and were both 18 when they appeared in the film. Pisier was discovered by a casting director, who had been instructed by Truffaut that: \"Jean-Pierre L\u00e9aud's partner must be a real young girl, not a Lolita, not a biker type, nor a little woman. She must be fresh and cheerful. Not too sexy.\"Colette, who treats Antoine like a \"buddy\", much to his frustration, runs into him again briefly in Baisers Vol\u00e9s (Stolen Kisses, 1968) and, finally, in the last film of the series, L'Amour en Fuite (Love On the Run, 1979), which she co-wrote. By then Colette was a lawyer, divorced like Antoine, but far more emotionally mature. The film contained what Truffaut called \"real flashbacks\", when we see the differences between Pisier in her screen debut and Pisier 17 years and more than 20 films later, when she was midway through a prestigious career. She worked with such auteurs as Luis Bu\u00f1uel, Jacques Rivette and Ra\u00fal Ruiz, appearing in quality French mainstream movies, with a short and unhappy detour to Hollywood.Pisier was born in French Indochina, now Vietnam, where her father served as colonial governor. She moved to Paris with her family when she was 12. While starting out in films, she completed degrees in jurisprudence and political science at Paris University.After she had appeared in several mediocre genre films, including thrillers directed by the actor Robert Hossein, Pisier's career took a more interesting turn. In 1974, she appeared in the most outrageous and amusing sequence in Bu\u00f1uel's penultimate film, Le Fant\u00f4me de la Libert\u00e9 (The Phantom of Liberty), where she is among the elegant guests seated on individual lavatories around a table from which they excuse themselves to go and eat in a little room behind a locked door. In the same year, in C\u00e9line et Julie Vont en Bateau (C\u00e9line and Julie Go Boating), Rivette's brilliantly allusive comic meditation on the nature of fiction, she and Bulle Ogier act out, in a stylised and exquisite manner, a creaky melodrama in a mysterious house.Pisier was cast by the director Andr\u00e9 T\u00e9chin\u00e9 in several of his early films, including Barocco (1976), for which she won a C\u00e9sar award for her supporting role as a prostitute with a baby in tow. She later played Charlotte Bront\u00eb, alongside Isabelle Adjani (as Emily) and Isabelle Huppert (as Anne) in T\u00e9chin\u00e9's Les Soeurs Bront\u00eb (1979).Her performance as a frivolous, neurotic wife in Jean-Charles Tacchella's Cousin Cousine (1975), a hit in the US, led to her starring role in The Other Side of Midnight (1977), a Hollywood soap opera in which she almost overcame the cliches as a naive French girl who, betrayed by an American pilot, begins to use men for their money and power.But subsequently, apart from French Postcards (1979), in which, according to the critic Roger Ebert, \"Marie-France Pisier, her jet-black hair framing her startling red lipstick, is the kind of dark Gallic woman-of-a-certain-age who knocks your socks off\", she was little seen in English-language movies. Among the rare exceptions was Chanel Solitaire (1981), in which she portrayed the designer Coco Chanel with her usual elegance. She made a splendid Madame Verdurin in Ruiz's Proust adaptation, Le Temps Retrouv\u00e9 (Time Regained, 1999), and was ethereal in the same director's magical Combat d'Amour en Songe (2000). More recently, she was an iconic presence in Christophe Honor\u00e9's homage to the French new wave, Dans Paris (2006). Pisier also directed two films, Le Bal du Gouverneur (The Governor's Party, 1990), starring Kristin Scott Thomas and adapted from Pisier's own novel about some of her childhood spent in New Caledonia in the Pacific, and Comme un Avion (Like an Airplane, 2002), a family drama based on the death of her own parents.Pisier was an outspoken defender of women's rights and legal abortion. She overcame breast cancer in the 1990s. Her first husband was the lawyer Georges Kiejman, with whom she had a son. She is survived by her second husband, Thierry Funck-Brentano, a businessman; her brother, Gilles; and her sister, Evelyne.\u2022 Marie-France Pisier, actor, writer, director, born 10 May 1944; died 24 April 2011", "tags": ["Film", "France", "Culture", "Europe", "Books"], "title": "Marie-France Pisier obituary"},{"date": "2011-06-29T15:25:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Christine Lagarde's appointment as the first woman head of the IMF is a victory for French feminism. The first woman finance minister in France (or indeed any large, industrialised country) she has long been a champion of more women and less \"libido\" and \"testosterone\" in banking and politics.With Lagarde now arguably the world's most powerful woman, the left's Martine Aubry bidding this week to be France's first female president and Marine Le Pen's high poll ratings as head of the extreme-right Front National, it might look as if it's a boom-time for women in French politics. But the picture is more nuanced than that. French feminists' verdict on the female score-card of French politics is: could do far better.When Nicolas Sarkozy was elected in 2007, he wanted half his cabinet to be women, something he has never quite achieved. He started out with several women in major posts, including Rachida Dati in justice, and Lagarde in finance, but the numbers have progressively dwindled. Currently, of 23 ministers, seven are women. Of eight junior ministers, three are women. Sarkozy was under pressure to include important jobs for women in his post-Lagarde reshuffle this afternoon, but made only small gestures towards women; the most important was Valerie Pecresse taking budget portfolio and being made government spokesman.On the opposition front, both Aubry and Le Pen are \"daughters of\" famous political fathers, carrying the weight of political dynasties and often asked about their fathers' influence, which is assumed to define their political moves. Both are feminists and say they are their own people. Aubry, the daughter of Jacques Delors, former Socialist finance minister and president of the European Commission, acknowledged in her presidential bid speech this week that she had learned a lot from her family. Le Pen works with and consults with hers.Another woman could enter the presidential race next month if Eva Joly, the investigative judge who relentlessly pursued major French corruption cases, wins the Green ticket. The party's primary race is expected to go to a second round vote on July 12.After the New York arrest of Dominique Strauss-Kahn over the alleged attempted rape of a New York hotel worker last month, there has been an outpouring against sexism and sex-discrimination in France. When one woman minister complained she no longer felt comfortable wearing a skirt in parliament, many female politicians agreed. Lagarde's appointment to the IMF has lifted the mood. But it will take more than one woman to turn around the statistics.Women MPs make up 18.5% of parliament, compared to 21% in the UK, 33% in Germany and 46% in Sweden. Less than a quarter of French Senators are women.In French boardrooms, only 15% of executives in large French companies are women. A new law has set a quota for 40% by 2017.French law on sex-equality means that political parties fielding lists of candidates in elections must ensure 50% of the names are women. If not, the party's funding is cut accordingly. Some parties seem happier to take the financial hit than field women. In 2010, with 26% of women out of 588 candidates, Sarkozy's ruling rightwing UMP party lost over 4m euros.A female politician once told the story of how Lagarde would often ask company heads why there weren't more women in their boardrooms. If they replied that it was because there was a lack of candidates or women at that level, she would reportedly open her desk drawer, get out a pile of top women's CVs and hand them over. Women in French politics are hoping that spirit lives on in Paris after she leaves for Washington.", "tags": ["Women", "Women in politics"], "title": "Women on top in France?"},{"date": "2011-06-10T23:01:05Z", "country": "france", "content": "We are in the car, deep under the English Channel, and I\u00a0have earphones in. I'm listening to a French language CD, number eight of 12. Two people, a\u00a0man and a woman, are on the CD, learning along with me. At the beginning, the woman kept making silly mistakes, while the man and I\u00a0picked things up very quickly. I felt she was holding us back.Now that we've reached reflexives, however, the man is struggling. Like me, he speaks haltingly and forgets basic stuff. The woman, meanwhile, seems to have turned a corner. I feel myself drifting off.\"We're here,\" my wife says. \"You're driving.\"\"Je me l\u00e8ve maintentant,\" I say.The trip is a band thing \u2013 we've got two dates in Normandy \u2013 and an advance guard (two band members, two wives, three children) are staying at the cultural centre that is the site of the first gig: concert Blue-Grass par le groupe anglais, plus chicken. While we're shown round, my wife gabbles away in her special brand of French, consisting of the phrase \"C'est possible...?\" and\u00a0a dozen nouns, all glued together with total nonsense. To my\u00a0fury, she is able to make herself understood, whereas every time I open my mouth everyone looks at me as if I have two heads.That night we go out for pizza. I\u00a0walk into the restaurant with the middle one and place our order. The woman at the counter stares at me for a moment, then asks a question I\u00a0don't understand. For a\u00a0time it seems we have reached a linguistic stalemate, but finally she reaches for her pad. I go to sit with the others.\"Mum's French is way better than Dad's,\" says the middle one.\"That's rubbish,\" I say. \"She doesn't know any reflexive verbs.\"\"That woman didn't understand what you were saying,\" he says. \"She had to get a pencil and paper.\"\"Yes, but that was because...\"\"And all she wrote on the paper was a big question mark.\"\"That's a lie,\" I say.Next day, we pick up the fiddle player and his wife from the train station. When we return, it's clear that the proprietor of the cultural centre and his wife are cross because they were expecting us for lunch. Here, my lack of French serves me well: I try to explain, then shrug, then exhale with exasperation. The\u00a0fiddle player's wife, who speaks fluent French, takes over. They have what I\u00a0assume is a conversation about the unfortunate confusion. I\u00a0find they are all looking at me.\"Non,\" says the fiddle player's wife, \"il comprend tout.\"At 5pm, the rest of the band arrives with the news that the PA system hasn't turned up. By the time we've rigged a substitute, the barbecue has been lit and people are beginning to drift across the lawn. It's a beautiful evening, and we are set up facing a terrace. The proprietor is urging us to begin so people can eat at 9pm.When the first song begins, I have my back to the crowd. I play a few notes on the harmonica, and I know from experience that it's important to check I'm holding it the right way up. The sound is surprisingly good, and the song is lovely: slow, plaintive, a little haunting. I step up to the mic and do my part. Once I've managed the first few notes, I look up.I have seen restless audiences before. I have seen boredom, and I\u00a0have seen pained indulgence. But\u00a0I've never seen what I see now: 100 French people sitting on white plastic chairs, whose expressions betray not just bewilderment, but disapproval. It looks like a parole hearing. I glance down at my set list:\u00a0only 14 more songs, plus one more gig, to go.", "tags": ["Family", "Relationships", "Parents and parenting", "Life and style"], "title": "Tim Dowling: Lost in France"},{"date": "2011-05-07T23:04:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Just 300m from Plage de l'Am\u00e9lie, nestled among tall pines, sits the exemplary Camping de l'Oc\u00e9an, on the C\u00f4te d'Argent. When you're not building sandcastles or surfing the waves, you can cycle some of the 140km of bike tracks on the Medoc coast, taking in wild beaches, stunning lakes, ch\u00e2teau vineyards and scented pine forests.Camping de l'Oc\u00e9an, 62 all\u00e9e de la N\u00e9gade, 33780 Soulac-sur-Mer (00 33 5 56 09 76 10, camping.ocean.pagesperso-orange.fr). Tent plus two adults \u20ac23.50 per night. Open all yearSweet honeysuckle mingles with the aroma of fresh pastries and bread. Belle Vue campsite grants you breathtaking valley vistas while you munch on pain au chocolat. Over rolling fields you will spy the beautiful Ch\u00e2teau de Hautefort.Belle Vue, La Contie, 24390 Boisseuilh (00 33 5 53 51 62 71, dordogne-camping.org). Tent plus two adults \u20ac19 per night. Open 1 March-11 November. This may well be the friendliest ch\u00e2teau-camping experience in France. Le Br\u00e9vedent sits in the grounds of a Louis XVI hunting lodge, set in parkland with a lake and surrounded by woodland. It is operated by descendants of the Marquis de Chabannes La Palice, who opened the grounds to campers to help with postwar repairs. Most camp by the lake, where carp can be caught and canoes hired. The site is in the heart of Calvados country, with\u00a0regular tastings for adults and other apple-based activities for kids.Le Br\u00e9vedent, route du Pin, 14130 Le Br\u00e9vedent (00 33 2 31 64 72 88, campinglebrevedent.com). Tent plus\u00a0two adults \u20ac16 per night. Open 30\u00a0April-18 September. Le Clapas takes its name from the old Occitan word for a pile of stones. The stones come from the site's expansive private beach on the shores of the Ard\u00e8che river. If not right next to the river, pitches offer a view of its emerald waters, and all invite river-based play. Canoeing and kayaking are popular and the Pont d'Arc, a 60m natural stone bridge, is a pleasant hour's stroll away.Le Clapas, Salavas, 07150 Vallon Pont d'Arc (00 33 4 75 37 14 76, camping-le-clapas.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac14-22 per night. Open April-September. The Alpe d'Huez mountain dwarfs the smattering of colourful tents at Ferme No\u00e9mie. This high-altitude haven offers all manner of mountain sports, from the incredible 10-mile \"La Sarenne\" run to the challenge of cycling up the legendary 21 road hairpins of the Alpe d'Huez. Or just grab a glass of homemade cider, gaze at the snowy peaks and soak up those alpine rays. Ferme No\u00e9mie, Les Sables, 38520 Bourg d'Oisans (00 33 4 76 11 06 14, fermenoemie.com). Tent plus two\u00a0adults \u20ac15-24 per night. Open April-October. Au Bois Joli owners Henri\u00ebtte and Robert have plans for improvement though the site is staggering in its friendliness, reverence for wild flora and fauna, ecological outlook, location, views and facilities. If you catch either host during a quiet moment, they will happily tell you about the site's unique micro-environment and how they tend it. Camping au Bois Joli, route de Villeprenoy, 89480 Andryes (00 33 3 86 81 70 48, campingauboisjoli.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac14.35-20.50 per night. Open April-November. Don't be fooled by cheap imitations: these Gypsy caravans are the real deal. Here are five authentic circus roulottes restored to vintage condition. Some nuzzle up to a river, others sit in a field. A campfire will provide your principal cooking method.Les Roulottes, 41350 Les Marais, Huisseau-sur-Cosson (00 33 6 67 74 94 93, lesroulottes.fr). Roulottes (sleep 4-5) \u20ac310-450 per week. Open all year.This is a camping fantasy, from the romantic safari tents to the black granite pool. You can camp in the traditional way, but when each safari tent comes with a lavish interior, twinkling candelabras and a\u00a0verandah on which to sit with your glass of red, it's a shame not to give them a whirl. Sample the red wines of the Bergerac region or the sweet whites of Ch\u00e2teau de Monbazillac.Les Ormes, 47210 St \u00c9tienne de Viller\u00e9al (00 33 5 53 36 60 26, campinglesormes.com). Tent plus two\u00a0adults \u20ac10 per night; safari tents\u00a0\u20ac360-975 per week. Open 1 May-15 September. Just a hop, skip and ferry ride across the Channel, Etretat is a medieval town on the Normandy coast famed for its dramatic cliffs, natural arch and pebbly beach. This gem of a site is municipal camping par excellence. The facilities are sparkling, the service is friendly, and the bus from Le Havre stops right outside. Camping d'Etretat, 69 rue Guy de Maupassant, 76790 Etretat (00 33 2 35 27 07 67). Tent plus two adults \u20ac11.30. Open early April-mid October.  Surrounded by an undulating landscape of sunflowers, vineyards and wheat fields, this place in the Gers, \"French Tuscany\", is more yoga centre than campsite, but there are three pitches and a teepee. The area is famous for its foie gras and Armagnac, which you can pick up at the food markets in Lectoure, Fleurance and N\u00e9rac. Or if you fancy a gastronomic extravaganza, head to the Michelin-listed Le Logis du Cordeliers in Condom.Caudet Radha Yoga Centre, 32700 Marsolan, Gers (00 33 5 62 68 87 95, radhacaudet.com). Tent plus two adults \u20ac20 per night; teepee \u20ac25 per person per night. Open all year. Extracted from Cool Camping France by Jonathan Knight, published by Punk Publishing at \u00a316.95 (coolcamping.co.uk)", "tags": ["Camping holidays", "Travel", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Normandy holidays", "Yoga", "Life and style", "Family holidays", "Food and drink"], "title": "Camping in France: Canvas opinion"},{"date": "2011-06-28T08:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "It may have been buried the day it was leaked to the press, but the Goasguen report, addressing the issue of dual nationality in France, is interesting on many levels.French MP Claude Goasguen's report was in fact \"a project for a report\", that is to say the mere beginning of an idea for a possible report, which would then have needed to be debated by a parliamentary commission to become a potential bill, then discussed by both chambers of parliament. This was never going to be more than the possibility of a debate. Lib\u00e9ration leaked the most controversial of Goasguen's 230-page work document before it even got to the desk of the newly created parliamentarian committee on nationality.One of the many recommendations was to restrict dual nationality. In specific instances, someone applying for French nationality might be asked to renounce their other nationality, or someone born in France of foreign parents might have to choose one nationality, and one only, on reaching 18.The day this was leaked, a government spokesman, Fran\u00e7ois Barouin, said that Nicolas Sarkozy's government was not in favour of such propositions. The Green and potential presidential candidate Eva Joly, herself Franco-Norwegian, denounced such a \"scandalously populist\" proposal. Apart from Marine Le Pen, the National Front leader who had written to the 577 French MPs asking for the end of dual nationality a few weeks earlier, no voice from either right or left came to the rescue of Goasguen, who immediately backtracked. Some were wittier than others \u2013 such as Causeur magazine.This episode is symptomatic of two trends in French politics: the influence of the extreme right in setting the national political agenda and the difficulty of debating controversial issues. It is precisely because of a refusal to engage in difficult conversations at a national level that the National Front manages to hijack important topics. Instead of screaming when a dubious proposal is suggested, why don't we serenely try to understand where it all comes from?So where do Goasguen's proposals come from? From a series of events, speeches and facts, some going back a century. A year ago Sarkozy, in a speech he made in Grenoble, pandered to the National Front by announcing that criminals of foreign origin convicted of the murders of policemen or of any national representatives would lose their French nationality. It was one of Sarkozy's now well-known emotional and calculated speeches whose sole purpose is to cater for a particular fringe of the electorate at a given time, usually taking place straight after an incident (riots, murders, any event that would strike the country's psyche). As often with Sarkozy's announcements, they are undoable or unconstitutional. What he's looking for each time he speaks is to stun his audience, in which he certainly succeeds.More recently, in April, the French football team's coach, Laurent Blanc, came under attack after he was secretly recorded raising the issue of having dual-nationality players in the French team. Blanc was asking whether there should be a quota of 30% of dual-nationals to limit potential defections during international competition. Former colleague Zinedine Zidane backed Blanc, but Lilian Thuram criticised him. The outrage was such that the questions raised by Blanc in the clumsiest terms were buried once and for all.In 2001 and 2002, at international matches (for instance, between France and Algeria), second- and third-generation French supporters booed the Marseillaise. At one match, the president, Jacques Chirac, felt he had to leave the stadium. These images shocked a country not used, at the time, to ethnic dissension. France then saw the November 2005 banlieues unrest and has, unfortunately, got used to the rise of such feeling, only exacerbated by the divisive nature of Sarkozy's policies and temperament.Booing the Marseillaise is a very symbolic gesture, especially when it comes from French nationals. France was built on an unwritten national contract, that of a community sharing not only the same geography but also a sense of a common destiny. The Republican model is that of integration and togetherness, not of peaceful cohabitation between separate communities, as with multiculturalism. Integration supposes a will to integrate and a desire to live together. Since the 1960s, the French left has shied away from any debates brushing on anything linked with, in its eyes, the awful word of \"nationalism\", forgetting that the political concept born in the 1840s was a progressive one.The contemporary French left has always found the Marseillaise, for instance, an embarrassing and cumbersome heritage. It is not sung for fear of looking too chauvinistic. However, to see it booed by fellow compatriots is another thing. A sign, surely, that something deep within France has gone awry. The Socialist party has chosen \u2013 as with many problems in France \u2013 to close its eyes, leaving the right, led by the National Front, to put it back on the table in the most preposterous way, as Goasguen did last week. The French left and centre-right should have the courage to debate difficult questions such as ethnic dissension, instead of just screaming until the other camp shuts up.", "tags": ["France", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France needs to talk about nationality | Agn\u00e8s Poirier"},{"date": "2011-06-30T13:54:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has now confirmed that it supplied weapons to tribal fighters in Libya earlier this month.At first sight, this conflicts with the arms embargo imposed by UN security council resolution 1970 back in February. But resolution 1973, which established the no-fly zone over Libya three weeks later, seems to override that. It authorises \"all necessary measures\" to protect civilians \"notwithstanding\" the arms embargo.Can anyone seriously claim to protect civilians by providing them with weapons? Or is that a contradiction in terms? The British government seems to think so, and at present is said to be providing the Libyan rebels only with \"non-lethal\" equipment.The US, meanwhile, argues that resolution 1973 does allow countries to provide the rebels with weapons \u2013 and Qatar is believed to have been doing so on a significant scale.The French military say that their weapons drop occurred in \"exceptional circumstances\" and was intended to provide civilians with a means to defend themselves when they came under threat. A military spokesman quoted by the BBC said: ", "tags": ["Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "World news", "France", "Arab and Middle East unrest"], "title": "Is France right to arm Libyan rebels? | Brian Whitaker"},{"date": "2011-08-16T13:02:42Z", "country": "france", "content": "Should the use of cannabis be legalised to end the dealing that has poisoned life in France's banlieues, and to guarantee the quality of a substance that is widely consumed but is often of very poor quality? The economist Pierre Kopp, of Paris University, has compared the cost of combating cannabis abuse with its possible cost if legalised. He considers that, as with tobacco use, the key factor in cannabis legalisation would be the duty levied by the state: ideally that duty should be high enough to prevent increased consumption of the substance, while bringing in sufficient revenue to fund prevention.Do you agree with those who claim that legalising cannabis would lead to increased consumption?Legalising the drug would not lead to a sudden rise in consumption, providing the duty imposed by the state kept the product at its current price (which is about \u20ac5.5 [$8] a gram). The price is the key variable: if it is too high, it would encourage dealing; if it is too low, consumption could take off. In fact it ought to be slightly higher than at present to make up for the absence of risk in purchasing (being cheated by a dealer or arrested by the police).The second key factor is education. Hazardous forms of use must be prevented by warning potential consumers about the effects of excess consumption or the risks of driving under the influence.How much does the use of cannabis currently cost society?To assess the impact of use, we have taken into account a whole series of factors: the consequences for public finances of spending on policing and healthcare, and also the pensions that will not need to be paid because of fatalities, the benefits in terms of consumer enjoyment, the profits of organised crime, and other factors. We know that taken as a whole, illegal drugs (cannabis, heroin, cocaine etc) have a negative impact on what economists call collective welfare valued at \u20ac900m. In other words, they represent a loss of resources that could be better used.It is hard to assess the impact of individual drugs, but we do know that law enforcement mostly targets cannabis. I estimate that about a third of the negative impact of illegal drugs is attributable to cannabis.What would we gain from legalisation?The state could save about \u20ac300m on spending arising out of arrests, or perhaps even more if you include the cost of custody, the running of courts and the enforcement of sentences. The state would also receive duty worth about \u20ac1bn. And then manpower and resources could be redeployed in prevention and combating trafficking of other drugs.How do you rate existing policies for combating cannabis abuse?Economists tend to consider that good public policies minimise social costs; that is, they help to improve collective wellbeing at a lower cost. The current policy on cannabis is expensive and its benefits are uncertain.After 1995, France revised its policy on heroin and authorised substitutes, resulting in a drop in the number of overdose fatalities. With cannabis, the current policy makes no sense: the state spends approximately \u20ac300m a year to arrest about 80,000 people, without this having a noticeable impact on consumption, which has remained at a high level. But a similar result could be achieved at much lower cost by concentrating on education and care.Other countries have depenalised usage. Is that a possible solution?It seems obvious to me that we need to end criminal prosecution. But as an economist I\u00a0would rather see controlled legalisation, with the state supervising production and distribution. It would thus be possible to control prices and combat possible misuse of cannabis more effectively. Repressive policies clog the courts and take a disproportionate amount of the police's time, as well as fuelling tension on underprivileged housing estates.Julien (not his real name) is 24, Swiss and a student in Geneva. When he starts talking about his cannabis plants there is no stopping him. \"I really enjoy growing, it's like a hobby. And, what's more, it earns a lot of money,\" he says, \"\u20ac25,000 to \u20ac30,000 ($35,000 to $42,000) for each harvest.\" With three crops a year, he is doing much better than when he worked at McDonald's.It was there that a workmate mentioned the idea. Many young people join with friends to grow four or five plants for personal consumption, but Julien was more ambitious, starting with 100. His customers, who all belong to much the same upper-middle-class circles, are very grateful: they rate his organic marijuana very highly.His initial outlay only amounted to \u20ac6,000 ($8,500), advanced by his former workmate, in exchange for half of Julien's first two crops. He bought two tents, each housing 50 plants, and set them up in the cellar of the house where he lives. His mother used to live here too, but these days she just drops in occasionally. Then there are special lamps, carbon filters to prevent the smell and various other substances. In all it occupies just a few square metres of floor space and he can buy all he needs in a grow-shop. \"It's really handy. You can find all the gear and [cannabis] sprouts, and of course the staff are always happy to give advice,\" he explains.A batch of little plants costs \u20ac500 ($700), plus a further \u20ac300 ($420) for soil and organic fertilisers. The growth period lasts 10 weeks. A partner helps Julien, taking 10% of the crop. In an average week he spends about four hours on the plants, mostly watering them. Otherwise, planting takes about six hours and pruning, halfway through each crop, another four. Stripping the leaves and flower-heads is the most time-consuming process, taking up to 48 hours. But he ropes in his partner for that job, \"smoking joints and drinking beer\". He keeps about 2.5 kilos. He could do a fourth crop, but reckons he earns enough as it is.Julien is not bothered about competition. He thinks there are about 100 other growers with as many plants operating in the Geneva area. But demand is huge and he sometimes cannot satisfy the 100 or so customers he supplies directly or via acquaintances.Some are thinking about going into the business too. \"Self-production is only just starting in France, but it will catch on,\" Julien asserts. \"Folks are fed up with paying a fortune for bad Moroccan [resin] and having to go to edgy places to get the stuff.\"All in all, Julien can only see advantages in local production and selling to friends. The quality is better. Buying off street dealers, there is always the risk of being cheated in one way or another. There are no other drugs in the loop and no middle-men, so the goods are cheaper. And very little chance of being \"grassed\". \"One buddy won't tell tales on another,\" says a customer, who drops by with a friend to pick up some grass for himself and his mates.Is he afraid of the police or bothered by moral issues? Without avoiding such bothersome questions, he disposes of them pretty quickly. \"Above all, I grow plants. I don't see myself as a dealer,\" Julien says. \"I don't sell heroin or crack [cocaine] to strung-out addicts, just grass for people who fancy a joint.\"But he does accept that what he is doing is wrong, though he thinks the Swiss authorities are more tolerant towards consuming and selling cannabis than in France. These activities are nevertheless illegal in both countries. Nor has usage been depenalised, though the idea of only imposing fines on offenders has been raised, and applied in some Swiss cantons.As for the danger involved, Julien is more concerned about \"driving risks, dropping out of school, social isolation and depression caused by excessive consumption\". But the people he knows seem to lead perfectly normal lives. And what about him? He is making the most of it for the time being. \"Once I've finished at college, I'll go to work like an honest citizen,\" he says.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Drugs trade", "France"], "title": "France and marijuana: an altered state"},{"date": "2011-08-16T13:02:42Z", "country": "france", "content": "Should the use of cannabis be legalised to end the dealing that has poisoned life in France's banlieues, and to guarantee the quality of a substance that is widely consumed but is often of very poor quality? The economist Pierre Kopp, of Paris University, has compared the cost of combating cannabis abuse with its possible cost if legalised. He considers that, as with tobacco use, the key factor in cannabis legalisation would be the duty levied by the state: ideally that duty should be high enough to prevent increased consumption of the substance, while bringing in sufficient revenue to fund prevention.Do you agree with those who claim that legalising cannabis would lead to increased consumption?Legalising the drug would not lead to a sudden rise in consumption, providing the duty imposed by the state kept the product at its current price (which is about \u20ac5.5 [$8] a gram). The price is the key variable: if it is too high, it would encourage dealing; if it is too low, consumption could take off. In fact it ought to be slightly higher than at present to make up for the absence of risk in purchasing (being cheated by a dealer or arrested by the police).The second key factor is education. Hazardous forms of use must be prevented by warning potential consumers about the effects of excess consumption or the risks of driving under the influence.How much does the use of cannabis currently cost society?To assess the impact of use, we have taken into account a whole series of factors: the consequences for public finances of spending on policing and healthcare, and also the pensions that will not need to be paid because of fatalities, the benefits in terms of consumer enjoyment, the profits of organised crime, and other factors. We know that taken as a whole, illegal drugs (cannabis, heroin, cocaine etc) have a negative impact on what economists call collective welfare valued at \u20ac900m. In other words, they represent a loss of resources that could be better used.It is hard to assess the impact of individual drugs, but we do know that law enforcement mostly targets cannabis. I estimate that about a third of the negative impact of illegal drugs is attributable to cannabis.What would we gain from legalisation?The state could save about \u20ac300m on spending arising out of arrests, or perhaps even more if you include the cost of custody, the running of courts and the enforcement of sentences. The state would also receive duty worth about \u20ac1bn. And then manpower and resources could be redeployed in prevention and combating trafficking of other drugs.How do you rate existing policies for combating cannabis abuse?Economists tend to consider that good public policies minimise social costs; that is, they help to improve collective wellbeing at a lower cost. The current policy on cannabis is expensive and its benefits are uncertain.After 1995, France revised its policy on heroin and authorised substitutes, resulting in a drop in the number of overdose fatalities. With cannabis, the current policy makes no sense: the state spends approximately \u20ac300m a year to arrest about 80,000 people, without this having a noticeable impact on consumption, which has remained at a high level. But a similar result could be achieved at much lower cost by concentrating on education and care.Other countries have depenalised usage. Is that a possible solution?It seems obvious to me that we need to end criminal prosecution. But as an economist I\u00a0would rather see controlled legalisation, with the state supervising production and distribution. It would thus be possible to control prices and combat possible misuse of cannabis more effectively. Repressive policies clog the courts and take a disproportionate amount of the police's time, as well as fuelling tension on underprivileged housing estates.Julien (not his real name) is 24, Swiss and a student in Geneva. When he starts talking about his cannabis plants there is no stopping him. \"I really enjoy growing, it's like a hobby. And, what's more, it earns a lot of money,\" he says, \"\u20ac25,000 to \u20ac30,000 ($35,000 to $42,000) for each harvest.\" With three crops a year, he is doing much better than when he worked at McDonald's.It was there that a workmate mentioned the idea. Many young people join with friends to grow four or five plants for personal consumption, but Julien was more ambitious, starting with 100. His customers, who all belong to much the same upper-middle-class circles, are very grateful: they rate his organic marijuana very highly.His initial outlay only amounted to \u20ac6,000 ($8,500), advanced by his former workmate, in exchange for half of Julien's first two crops. He bought two tents, each housing 50 plants, and set them up in the cellar of the house where he lives. His mother used to live here too, but these days she just drops in occasionally. Then there are special lamps, carbon filters to prevent the smell and various other substances. In all it occupies just a few square metres of floor space and he can buy all he needs in a grow-shop. \"It's really handy. You can find all the gear and [cannabis] sprouts, and of course the staff are always happy to give advice,\" he explains.A batch of little plants costs \u20ac500 ($700), plus a further \u20ac300 ($420) for soil and organic fertilisers. The growth period lasts 10 weeks. A partner helps Julien, taking 10% of the crop. In an average week he spends about four hours on the plants, mostly watering them. Otherwise, planting takes about six hours and pruning, halfway through each crop, another four. Stripping the leaves and flower-heads is the most time-consuming process, taking up to 48 hours. But he ropes in his partner for that job, \"smoking joints and drinking beer\". He keeps about 2.5 kilos. He could do a fourth crop, but reckons he earns enough as it is.Julien is not bothered about competition. He thinks there are about 100 other growers with as many plants operating in the Geneva area. But demand is huge and he sometimes cannot satisfy the 100 or so customers he supplies directly or via acquaintances.Some are thinking about going into the business too. \"Self-production is only just starting in France, but it will catch on,\" Julien asserts. \"Folks are fed up with paying a fortune for bad Moroccan [resin] and having to go to edgy places to get the stuff.\"All in all, Julien can only see advantages in local production and selling to friends. The quality is better. Buying off street dealers, there is always the risk of being cheated in one way or another. There are no other drugs in the loop and no middle-men, so the goods are cheaper. And very little chance of being \"grassed\". \"One buddy won't tell tales on another,\" says a customer, who drops by with a friend to pick up some grass for himself and his mates.Is he afraid of the police or bothered by moral issues? Without avoiding such bothersome questions, he disposes of them pretty quickly. \"Above all, I grow plants. I don't see myself as a dealer,\" Julien says. \"I don't sell heroin or crack [cocaine] to strung-out addicts, just grass for people who fancy a joint.\"But he does accept that what he is doing is wrong, though he thinks the Swiss authorities are more tolerant towards consuming and selling cannabis than in France. These activities are nevertheless illegal in both countries. Nor has usage been depenalised, though the idea of only imposing fines on offenders has been raised, and applied in some Swiss cantons.As for the danger involved, Julien is more concerned about \"driving risks, dropping out of school, social isolation and depression caused by excessive consumption\". But the people he knows seem to lead perfectly normal lives. And what about him? He is making the most of it for the time being. \"Once I've finished at college, I'll go to work like an honest citizen,\" he says.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Drugs", "Drugs policy", "Drugs trade", "France"], "title": "France and marijuana: an altered state"},{"date": "2011-07-29T16:59:25Z", "country": "france", "content": "An Air France aircraft plunged into the Atlantic en route from Rio to Paris after a \"series of failings\" by pilots, according to a French air investigation report.The pilots flying flight AF447 could have saved the plane after it temporarily lost its speed readings. Instead, they did the opposite of what was required, concluded France's air investigation authority the Bureau d'Enqu\u00eates et d'Analyses (BEA), pulling the aircraft up to a height at which it stalled and fell from the sky at 10,000ft per minute, \"The situation was salvageable,\" Jean Paul Troadec, BEA director told reporters.Air France, however, defended its pilots in a statement released at the same time as the report was made public, saying the attitude alert system had malfunctioned.Friday's report was the third into what caused the Air France Airbus 330 to crash into the ocean on 1 June 2009, killing all 228 people on board, after flying through turbulence.The investigation confirmed that the failure of speed sensors, called pitot tubes, which froze up and failed had set off a catastrophic chain of events. The report said the pilots lacked training to deal with this situation.Captain, Marc Dubois, 58, was resting when the Airbus began encountering turbulance, leaving co-pilots David Robert, 37, and Pierre-Cedric Bonin, 32, in the cockpit.Bonin was at the controls when the speed sensors failed. When the autopilot reacted to the confused readings by disconnecting itself and handing control of the plane to the pilot, he reportedly hauled the aircraft up to 37,500ft in an apparent attempt to slow it down. As a consequence the A330's stall warning sounded, meaning that the plane's aerodynamics were not generating enough lift even though its twin engines were working normally.Robert, Bonin's co-pilot at the time, supposedly check-listing the emergency procedures, lost precious seconds calling the captain and failed to correct his colleague's error as the plane plunged towards the sea, said the report. Dubois had returned to the cockpit seconds before the crash but was unable to save the situation as it hit the Atlantic belly first.A French pilot told Le Figaro newspaper: \"This manoeuvre (the pulling up of the plane) is totally incomprehensible. My colleague must have panicked.\"The BEA has produced safety recommendations including extra training on how to manually fly planes, including approaches to and recovering from a stall particularly at high altitudes. It also suggests planes be fitted with new video flight recorders and emergency data transmitters.Both Air France and Airbus are being investigated for alleged manslaughter in connection with the crash. French officials insist the BEA's findings do not amount to an official attribution of blame.\"The BEA establishes the facts and makes recommendations basted on those facts,\" environmental and transport minister Nathalie Kosciusko-Morizet told French radio. \"As to who is responsible, that is up to the courts.\"Representatives of the victims' families have also rejected pilot error as the primary cause, suggesting the economic issues at stake may mean a playing down of mechanical failures.Airbus said on Friday it \"welcomed the latest BEA interim report on the AF447 accident as a further step towards gaining a full understanding of the chain of events that led to this tragic accident\".\"Airbus will continue to provide full support to the on-going investigation led by the BEA, so that the whole Air Transport Community can benefit from any lessons to be learnt from this event,\" it added.\u2022 This article was amended on 8 August 2011. Paragraph three of the original referred to the \"altitude alert system\". This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Plane crashes", "World news", "France", "Air transport"], "title": "Air France crash blamed on pilot error"},{"date": "2011-12-16T21:37:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "The political cartoonist of his time JS Gillray depicted William Pitt and Napoleon carving up the plum pudding of the globe (Pitt helps himself to the larger slice). Britain and France always were the best of enemies. They share similar delusions. Each harbours a misplaced belief in the exceptionalism of their culture, the universality of their language and the intelligence of their diplomats. To this list should this week be added the moral superiority of their economy. Two French cabinet ministers and a senior bank official reduced the cross-channel dialogue to the level of a year-six spat in a playground by suggesting the US credit ratings agencies should more usefully turn their attention on Britain, a land with a greater deficit, more inflation and less growth than France. The French finance minister Fran\u00e7ois Baroin might have been trying to deflect attention from the anticipated loss of his country's own AAA rating, by saying that the economic situation in Britain was very worrying and he would rather be French in this crisis than British. But he and the prime minister Fran\u00e7ois Fillon were not just having a pop. This was a regular fusillade.Comrades, we are in the same boat. A sinking one. Fitch put six eurozone countries on negative watch \u2013 Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus. The exit of any or each from the eurozone would impact on Britain. So there's no room for crowing. And that applies as much to British eurosceptics as it does to French ministers blowing raspberries. Oh, and add to that David Cameron's less than helpful calls to the non-euro states of Denmark, Sweden and the Czech Republic, which were taken by France as agitation against a fiscal compact before it had even been finalised. The truth is multiform. Some of Cameron's cabinet colleagues are rightly having kittens about the position he has landed them in, and some of the other 26 EU members harbour grave, as yet sotto voce, doubts about the deal they signed up to. The two do not cancel each other out.As Simon Tilford of the Centre for European Reform argues, the fiscal compact agreed in Brussels and about which a draft version circulated yesterday hard-wires pro-cyclical, fiscal austerity into the institutional framework of the eurozone. The German view of the crisis is a morality tale, pitting sinners in the profligate southern periphery against the virtuous in the north who put all their savings in a bank rather than spend it. The crisis is as much a tale of excess bank leverage and poor risk management at the core as it is of excess consumption at the periphery. Look at what is happening to a country which is doing all that Germany is asking of it. Ireland's GNP shrank by 1.9% in the last quarter. Ireland does not have any room for manoeuvre. All the bailout money is going towards financing the deficit and the debt.There are political downsides to the Brussels deal. Britain is not alone in disliking the idea of a two- or multi-speed Europe. The Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltic states, Hungary, all of which have lived on the periphery of one empire, the Soviet one, have no desire to live on the periphery of another. Austria and Finland think Germany has got the economics of the cure wrong. Italy's technocrat prime minister Mario Monti won a vote of confidence in the lower house speeding up the passage of the austerity budget bill, but in Italy's dysfunctional body politic some are waiting for that plan to fail. In France Marine Le Pen is making hay on her long-standing opposition to the euro.There is little Christmas cheer in this picture. If the leaders of countries like Britain and France don't realise what they have in common, it is no exaggeration to say that Europe risks being torn apart by nationalism, economic protectionism, and the anti-immigrant xenophobia of the far right. Folk need to get back round the table. They do not do that by shouting at each other.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union"], "title": "Britain and France: seasonal greetings | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-16T21:37:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "The political cartoonist of his time JS Gillray depicted William Pitt and Napoleon carving up the plum pudding of the globe (Pitt helps himself to the larger slice). Britain and France always were the best of enemies. They share similar delusions. Each harbours a misplaced belief in the exceptionalism of their culture, the universality of their language and the intelligence of their diplomats. To this list should this week be added the moral superiority of their economy. Two French cabinet ministers and a senior bank official reduced the cross-channel dialogue to the level of a year-six spat in a playground by suggesting the US credit ratings agencies should more usefully turn their attention on Britain, a land with a greater deficit, more inflation and less growth than France. The French finance minister Fran\u00e7ois Baroin might have been trying to deflect attention from the anticipated loss of his country's own AAA rating, by saying that the economic situation in Britain was very worrying and he would rather be French in this crisis than British. But he and the prime minister Fran\u00e7ois Fillon were not just having a pop. This was a regular fusillade.Comrades, we are in the same boat. A sinking one. Fitch put six eurozone countries on negative watch \u2013 Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus. The exit of any or each from the eurozone would impact on Britain. So there's no room for crowing. And that applies as much to British eurosceptics as it does to French ministers blowing raspberries. Oh, and add to that David Cameron's less than helpful calls to the non-euro states of Denmark, Sweden and the Czech Republic, which were taken by France as agitation against a fiscal compact before it had even been finalised. The truth is multiform. Some of Cameron's cabinet colleagues are rightly having kittens about the position he has landed them in, and some of the other 26 EU members harbour grave, as yet sotto voce, doubts about the deal they signed up to. The two do not cancel each other out.As Simon Tilford of the Centre for European Reform argues, the fiscal compact agreed in Brussels and about which a draft version circulated yesterday hard-wires pro-cyclical, fiscal austerity into the institutional framework of the eurozone. The German view of the crisis is a morality tale, pitting sinners in the profligate southern periphery against the virtuous in the north who put all their savings in a bank rather than spend it. The crisis is as much a tale of excess bank leverage and poor risk management at the core as it is of excess consumption at the periphery. Look at what is happening to a country which is doing all that Germany is asking of it. Ireland's GNP shrank by 1.9% in the last quarter. Ireland does not have any room for manoeuvre. All the bailout money is going towards financing the deficit and the debt.There are political downsides to the Brussels deal. Britain is not alone in disliking the idea of a two- or multi-speed Europe. The Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltic states, Hungary, all of which have lived on the periphery of one empire, the Soviet one, have no desire to live on the periphery of another. Austria and Finland think Germany has got the economics of the cure wrong. Italy's technocrat prime minister Mario Monti won a vote of confidence in the lower house speeding up the passage of the austerity budget bill, but in Italy's dysfunctional body politic some are waiting for that plan to fail. In France Marine Le Pen is making hay on her long-standing opposition to the euro.There is little Christmas cheer in this picture. If the leaders of countries like Britain and France don't realise what they have in common, it is no exaggeration to say that Europe risks being torn apart by nationalism, economic protectionism, and the anti-immigrant xenophobia of the far right. Folk need to get back round the table. They do not do that by shouting at each other.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union"], "title": "Britain and France: seasonal greetings | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:08:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "Turkey's prime minister has accused France of having committed genocide during its colonial occupation of Algeria in the latest round of the worst diplomatic row between the two Nato allies in more than a century.The claim by Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday follows French MPs' approval of a law that would make it a criminal offence to deny that the mass killing of Armenians in 1915 by Ottoman Turks was genocide.Turkey has frozen political and diplomatic relations with France, recalling its ambassador to Paris and suspending all economic, political and military meetings. Erdogan has withdrawn permission for French military planes to land and warships to dock in Turkey and annulled joint military exercises. He said he would decide, case by case, whether to allow the French military to use Turkish airspace.\"What the French did in Algeria was genocide,\" he said in a deeply personal speech laced with\u00a0criticism of France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy.Erdogan said that about 15% of the Algerian population was massacred during the French occupation from 1945 to 1962. \"They were mercilessly martyred. If Mr Sarkozy doesn't know there was a genocide, he can ask his father, Pal Sarkozy \u2026 who was a legionnaire in Algeria in the 1940s. I'm sure he has a lot to tell his son about the massacres committed by the French in Algeria.\"Pal Sarkozy told French TV: \"I was never in Algeria. I didn't get further than Marseille, I was in the [foreign] legion for four months.\"The row has simmered for weeks, but erupted on Thursday after French MPs approved a bill which would make denying the Armenian genocide a criminal offence punishable by a one-year prison sentence and a fine of \u20ac45,000.Erdogan said the bill was \"a clear example of how racism, discrimination and anti-Muslim sentiment have reached new heights in France and in Europe.\" He said: \"President Sarkozy's ambition is to win an election based on promoting animosity against Turks and Muslims.\"Under Sarkozy, who has opposed Turkey's stalled bid to join the EU, Paris-Ankara relations have been tricky. Turkey has accused his rightwing UMP party of using the genocide bill to court the 500,000 French-Armenian voters in next year's presidential and parliamentary elections. Socialists also supported criminalising genocide denial.\"I respect the convictions of our Turkish friends \u2013 it's a great country, a great civilisation \u2013 and they should respect ours,\" Sarkozy said on Friday, after arriving in Prague for the funeral of the former Czech president V\u00e1clav Havel.The French foreign minister, Alain Jupp\u00e9, who has tried to smooth tensions, called for \"restraint\", saying he wanted to preserve \"trust and friendship\". He added that some declarations had been \"no doubt excessive\".Most historians contend the Ottoman killings of the Armenians constituted the first genocide of the 20th century. Ankara denies the killings constitute genocide and says many Muslim Turks and Kurds were also put to death as Russian troops invaded eastern Anatolia, often aided by Armenian militias. The issue weighs heavily on political pride and Turkey's international relations. In Washington Barack Obama has stopped short of calling the killings genocide.The French parliament recognised the Armenian killings as genocide in 2001. The bill to criminalise genocide denial must go before the senate next year.", "tags": ["Turkey", "France", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Algeria", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Armenia", "World news", "War crimes", "Law", "Armenian genocide"], "title": "Turkey accuses France of genocide in Algeria"},{"date": "2011-12-16T21:37:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "The political cartoonist of his time JS Gillray depicted William Pitt and Napoleon carving up the plum pudding of the globe (Pitt helps himself to the larger slice). Britain and France always were the best of enemies. They share similar delusions. Each harbours a misplaced belief in the exceptionalism of their culture, the universality of their language and the intelligence of their diplomats. To this list should this week be added the moral superiority of their economy. Two French cabinet ministers and a senior bank official reduced the cross-channel dialogue to the level of a year-six spat in a playground by suggesting the US credit ratings agencies should more usefully turn their attention on Britain, a land with a greater deficit, more inflation and less growth than France. The French finance minister Fran\u00e7ois Baroin might have been trying to deflect attention from the anticipated loss of his country's own AAA rating, by saying that the economic situation in Britain was very worrying and he would rather be French in this crisis than British. But he and the prime minister Fran\u00e7ois Fillon were not just having a pop. This was a regular fusillade.Comrades, we are in the same boat. A sinking one. Fitch put six eurozone countries on negative watch \u2013 Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus. The exit of any or each from the eurozone would impact on Britain. So there's no room for crowing. And that applies as much to British eurosceptics as it does to French ministers blowing raspberries. Oh, and add to that David Cameron's less than helpful calls to the non-euro states of Denmark, Sweden and the Czech Republic, which were taken by France as agitation against a fiscal compact before it had even been finalised. The truth is multiform. Some of Cameron's cabinet colleagues are rightly having kittens about the position he has landed them in, and some of the other 26 EU members harbour grave, as yet sotto voce, doubts about the deal they signed up to. The two do not cancel each other out.As Simon Tilford of the Centre for European Reform argues, the fiscal compact agreed in Brussels and about which a draft version circulated yesterday hard-wires pro-cyclical, fiscal austerity into the institutional framework of the eurozone. The German view of the crisis is a morality tale, pitting sinners in the profligate southern periphery against the virtuous in the north who put all their savings in a bank rather than spend it. The crisis is as much a tale of excess bank leverage and poor risk management at the core as it is of excess consumption at the periphery. Look at what is happening to a country which is doing all that Germany is asking of it. Ireland's GNP shrank by 1.9% in the last quarter. Ireland does not have any room for manoeuvre. All the bailout money is going towards financing the deficit and the debt.There are political downsides to the Brussels deal. Britain is not alone in disliking the idea of a two- or multi-speed Europe. The Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltic states, Hungary, all of which have lived on the periphery of one empire, the Soviet one, have no desire to live on the periphery of another. Austria and Finland think Germany has got the economics of the cure wrong. Italy's technocrat prime minister Mario Monti won a vote of confidence in the lower house speeding up the passage of the austerity budget bill, but in Italy's dysfunctional body politic some are waiting for that plan to fail. In France Marine Le Pen is making hay on her long-standing opposition to the euro.There is little Christmas cheer in this picture. If the leaders of countries like Britain and France don't realise what they have in common, it is no exaggeration to say that Europe risks being torn apart by nationalism, economic protectionism, and the anti-immigrant xenophobia of the far right. Folk need to get back round the table. They do not do that by shouting at each other.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union"], "title": "Britain and France: seasonal greetings | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:08:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "Turkey's prime minister has accused France of having committed genocide during its colonial occupation of Algeria in the latest round of the worst diplomatic row between the two Nato allies in more than a century.The claim by Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday follows French MPs' approval of a law that would make it a criminal offence to deny that the mass killing of Armenians in 1915 by Ottoman Turks was genocide.Turkey has frozen political and diplomatic relations with France, recalling its ambassador to Paris and suspending all economic, political and military meetings. Erdogan has withdrawn permission for French military planes to land and warships to dock in Turkey and annulled joint military exercises. He said he would decide, case by case, whether to allow the French military to use Turkish airspace.\"What the French did in Algeria was genocide,\" he said in a deeply personal speech laced with\u00a0criticism of France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy.Erdogan said that about 15% of the Algerian population was massacred during the French occupation from 1945 to 1962. \"They were mercilessly martyred. If Mr Sarkozy doesn't know there was a genocide, he can ask his father, Pal Sarkozy \u2026 who was a legionnaire in Algeria in the 1940s. I'm sure he has a lot to tell his son about the massacres committed by the French in Algeria.\"Pal Sarkozy told French TV: \"I was never in Algeria. I didn't get further than Marseille, I was in the [foreign] legion for four months.\"The row has simmered for weeks, but erupted on Thursday after French MPs approved a bill which would make denying the Armenian genocide a criminal offence punishable by a one-year prison sentence and a fine of \u20ac45,000.Erdogan said the bill was \"a clear example of how racism, discrimination and anti-Muslim sentiment have reached new heights in France and in Europe.\" He said: \"President Sarkozy's ambition is to win an election based on promoting animosity against Turks and Muslims.\"Under Sarkozy, who has opposed Turkey's stalled bid to join the EU, Paris-Ankara relations have been tricky. Turkey has accused his rightwing UMP party of using the genocide bill to court the 500,000 French-Armenian voters in next year's presidential and parliamentary elections. Socialists also supported criminalising genocide denial.\"I respect the convictions of our Turkish friends \u2013 it's a great country, a great civilisation \u2013 and they should respect ours,\" Sarkozy said on Friday, after arriving in Prague for the funeral of the former Czech president V\u00e1clav Havel.The French foreign minister, Alain Jupp\u00e9, who has tried to smooth tensions, called for \"restraint\", saying he wanted to preserve \"trust and friendship\". He added that some declarations had been \"no doubt excessive\".Most historians contend the Ottoman killings of the Armenians constituted the first genocide of the 20th century. Ankara denies the killings constitute genocide and says many Muslim Turks and Kurds were also put to death as Russian troops invaded eastern Anatolia, often aided by Armenian militias. The issue weighs heavily on political pride and Turkey's international relations. In Washington Barack Obama has stopped short of calling the killings genocide.The French parliament recognised the Armenian killings as genocide in 2001. The bill to criminalise genocide denial must go before the senate next year.", "tags": ["Turkey", "France", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Algeria", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Armenia", "World news", "War crimes", "Law", "Armenian genocide"], "title": "Turkey accuses France of genocide in Algeria"},{"date": "2011-11-17T11:57:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Metro France, under its new ownership by the commercial TV channel TF1, is planning to expand distribution next year from 30 to 60 cities.According to director Edouard Boccon-Gibod, this means that coverage in France will rise from 68 to 90% of the country. But circulation will stay the same because distribution in existing markets will be lowered.Metro France is now distributed in nine different daily editions with a total circulation of 770,000 copies.After 20 Minutes and DirectPlus it is France's third free daily.Sources: Newspaper Innovation In French: Ozap", "tags": ["Media", "Metro", "France", "Newspapers", "Free newspapers", "Europe"], "title": "Metro to cover 90% of France"},{"date": "2011-12-16T21:37:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "The political cartoonist of his time JS Gillray depicted William Pitt and Napoleon carving up the plum pudding of the globe (Pitt helps himself to the larger slice). Britain and France always were the best of enemies. They share similar delusions. Each harbours a misplaced belief in the exceptionalism of their culture, the universality of their language and the intelligence of their diplomats. To this list should this week be added the moral superiority of their economy. Two French cabinet ministers and a senior bank official reduced the cross-channel dialogue to the level of a year-six spat in a playground by suggesting the US credit ratings agencies should more usefully turn their attention on Britain, a land with a greater deficit, more inflation and less growth than France. The French finance minister Fran\u00e7ois Baroin might have been trying to deflect attention from the anticipated loss of his country's own AAA rating, by saying that the economic situation in Britain was very worrying and he would rather be French in this crisis than British. But he and the prime minister Fran\u00e7ois Fillon were not just having a pop. This was a regular fusillade.Comrades, we are in the same boat. A sinking one. Fitch put six eurozone countries on negative watch \u2013 Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus. The exit of any or each from the eurozone would impact on Britain. So there's no room for crowing. And that applies as much to British eurosceptics as it does to French ministers blowing raspberries. Oh, and add to that David Cameron's less than helpful calls to the non-euro states of Denmark, Sweden and the Czech Republic, which were taken by France as agitation against a fiscal compact before it had even been finalised. The truth is multiform. Some of Cameron's cabinet colleagues are rightly having kittens about the position he has landed them in, and some of the other 26 EU members harbour grave, as yet sotto voce, doubts about the deal they signed up to. The two do not cancel each other out.As Simon Tilford of the Centre for European Reform argues, the fiscal compact agreed in Brussels and about which a draft version circulated yesterday hard-wires pro-cyclical, fiscal austerity into the institutional framework of the eurozone. The German view of the crisis is a morality tale, pitting sinners in the profligate southern periphery against the virtuous in the north who put all their savings in a bank rather than spend it. The crisis is as much a tale of excess bank leverage and poor risk management at the core as it is of excess consumption at the periphery. Look at what is happening to a country which is doing all that Germany is asking of it. Ireland's GNP shrank by 1.9% in the last quarter. Ireland does not have any room for manoeuvre. All the bailout money is going towards financing the deficit and the debt.There are political downsides to the Brussels deal. Britain is not alone in disliking the idea of a two- or multi-speed Europe. The Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltic states, Hungary, all of which have lived on the periphery of one empire, the Soviet one, have no desire to live on the periphery of another. Austria and Finland think Germany has got the economics of the cure wrong. Italy's technocrat prime minister Mario Monti won a vote of confidence in the lower house speeding up the passage of the austerity budget bill, but in Italy's dysfunctional body politic some are waiting for that plan to fail. In France Marine Le Pen is making hay on her long-standing opposition to the euro.There is little Christmas cheer in this picture. If the leaders of countries like Britain and France don't realise what they have in common, it is no exaggeration to say that Europe risks being torn apart by nationalism, economic protectionism, and the anti-immigrant xenophobia of the far right. Folk need to get back round the table. They do not do that by shouting at each other.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union"], "title": "Britain and France: seasonal greetings | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:08:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "Turkey's prime minister has accused France of having committed genocide during its colonial occupation of Algeria in the latest round of the worst diplomatic row between the two Nato allies in more than a century.The claim by Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday follows French MPs' approval of a law that would make it a criminal offence to deny that the mass killing of Armenians in 1915 by Ottoman Turks was genocide.Turkey has frozen political and diplomatic relations with France, recalling its ambassador to Paris and suspending all economic, political and military meetings. Erdogan has withdrawn permission for French military planes to land and warships to dock in Turkey and annulled joint military exercises. He said he would decide, case by case, whether to allow the French military to use Turkish airspace.\"What the French did in Algeria was genocide,\" he said in a deeply personal speech laced with\u00a0criticism of France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy.Erdogan said that about 15% of the Algerian population was massacred during the French occupation from 1945 to 1962. \"They were mercilessly martyred. If Mr Sarkozy doesn't know there was a genocide, he can ask his father, Pal Sarkozy \u2026 who was a legionnaire in Algeria in the 1940s. I'm sure he has a lot to tell his son about the massacres committed by the French in Algeria.\"Pal Sarkozy told French TV: \"I was never in Algeria. I didn't get further than Marseille, I was in the [foreign] legion for four months.\"The row has simmered for weeks, but erupted on Thursday after French MPs approved a bill which would make denying the Armenian genocide a criminal offence punishable by a one-year prison sentence and a fine of \u20ac45,000.Erdogan said the bill was \"a clear example of how racism, discrimination and anti-Muslim sentiment have reached new heights in France and in Europe.\" He said: \"President Sarkozy's ambition is to win an election based on promoting animosity against Turks and Muslims.\"Under Sarkozy, who has opposed Turkey's stalled bid to join the EU, Paris-Ankara relations have been tricky. Turkey has accused his rightwing UMP party of using the genocide bill to court the 500,000 French-Armenian voters in next year's presidential and parliamentary elections. Socialists also supported criminalising genocide denial.\"I respect the convictions of our Turkish friends \u2013 it's a great country, a great civilisation \u2013 and they should respect ours,\" Sarkozy said on Friday, after arriving in Prague for the funeral of the former Czech president V\u00e1clav Havel.The French foreign minister, Alain Jupp\u00e9, who has tried to smooth tensions, called for \"restraint\", saying he wanted to preserve \"trust and friendship\". He added that some declarations had been \"no doubt excessive\".Most historians contend the Ottoman killings of the Armenians constituted the first genocide of the 20th century. Ankara denies the killings constitute genocide and says many Muslim Turks and Kurds were also put to death as Russian troops invaded eastern Anatolia, often aided by Armenian militias. The issue weighs heavily on political pride and Turkey's international relations. In Washington Barack Obama has stopped short of calling the killings genocide.The French parliament recognised the Armenian killings as genocide in 2001. The bill to criminalise genocide denial must go before the senate next year.", "tags": ["Turkey", "France", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Algeria", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Armenia", "World news", "War crimes", "Law", "Armenian genocide"], "title": "Turkey accuses France of genocide in Algeria"},{"date": "2011-11-17T11:57:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Metro France, under its new ownership by the commercial TV channel TF1, is planning to expand distribution next year from 30 to 60 cities.According to director Edouard Boccon-Gibod, this means that coverage in France will rise from 68 to 90% of the country. But circulation will stay the same because distribution in existing markets will be lowered.Metro France is now distributed in nine different daily editions with a total circulation of 770,000 copies.After 20 Minutes and DirectPlus it is France's third free daily.Sources: Newspaper Innovation In French: Ozap", "tags": ["Media", "Metro", "France", "Newspapers", "Free newspapers", "Europe"], "title": "Metro to cover 90% of France"},{"date": "2011-11-15T21:03:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "France slumped to 13th place in a eurozone league table of financial security, adding to fears that the second largest economy in the 17-member currency club could lose its top-notch credit status within the next few months.Analysts said the overall health of the French economy ranked only one place above Italy, and below several countries often mentioned as being near to bankruptcy, including Spain and Ireland.The report by the Brussels-based thinktank the Lisbon Council came as fund managers warned that confidence was quickly evaporating in France's ability to deal with growing government debts and potential bad loans held by its banks.Mike Riddell, a fund manager at M&G, one of the UK's largest bond investors, said France was seeing \"a full-blown run on its debt\" after the yields on 10-year government bonds soared to 3.69%, the highest since the formation of the euro 12 years ago. The costs of insuring investments in the French debt market also jumped to their highest level since 1999.Riddell said Paris was considered to be closer to Rome than Berlin in terms of dealing with escalating debts and troubled banks, while Stuart Thomson, chief economist at Glasgow-based fund manager Ignis, said France was almost certain to lose its AAA credit rating.A lending spree to peripheral eurozone countries including Italy and Spain and many of the emerging market economies in eastern Europe has undermined the stability of French banks and increased their risk of collapse, he said. In the event of a bailout, the French taxpayer would need to find billions of euros to prevent them from going\u00a0bankrupt.The French finance minister, Francois Baroin, rejected pleas from Brussels last week to make steeper cuts in government spending. He said a series of austerity measures already in the pipeline would be sufficient to reduce spending and bring the country's annual deficit to within manageable limits.France announced a \u20ac19bn (\u00a316bn) package of cuts this month that took the total package of tax rises and cost-savings to around \u20ac65bn over five years.But the French finance ministry has remained silent on the impact of investments by the country's banks in Italy, Spain and other indebted nations.French banks are believed to hold the highest amount of Italian debt of any eurozone country. Large-scale loans in parts of eastern Europe could turn sour after a slowdown in growth in Europe that is forcing some firms into bankruptcy.An indicator of the dangers was provided by Italian bank Unicredit in its annual results earlier this week, when it wrote off \u20ac9.6bn and ringfenced more than \u20ac40bn in its accounts, much of it loans in eastern Europe. Banks are not obliged to provide details of their lending, and governments have resisted publishing a breakdown of loans made to different countries or banks. Around two-thirds of all lending in the eurozone is between its 7,000 banks and institutions in the US, Asia and the Middle East. Eurozone banks hold around \u20ac55trn in assets, much of them loans to sovereign countries or other banks.The Lisbon Council's Euro Plus Monitor report said: \"Alarm bells should be ringing for France. Among the six eurozone countries with an AAA rating, France achieves by far the lowest ranking in the overall health check. The results are too mediocre for a country that wants to safeguard its place in the top league.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Rating agencies", "Euro", "European banks", "Euro", "Financial sector", "European Union", "Currencies", "Business", "Economics", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Debts in France threaten top credit rating"},{"date": "2011-12-16T21:37:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "The political cartoonist of his time JS Gillray depicted William Pitt and Napoleon carving up the plum pudding of the globe (Pitt helps himself to the larger slice). Britain and France always were the best of enemies. They share similar delusions. Each harbours a misplaced belief in the exceptionalism of their culture, the universality of their language and the intelligence of their diplomats. To this list should this week be added the moral superiority of their economy. Two French cabinet ministers and a senior bank official reduced the cross-channel dialogue to the level of a year-six spat in a playground by suggesting the US credit ratings agencies should more usefully turn their attention on Britain, a land with a greater deficit, more inflation and less growth than France. The French finance minister Fran\u00e7ois Baroin might have been trying to deflect attention from the anticipated loss of his country's own AAA rating, by saying that the economic situation in Britain was very worrying and he would rather be French in this crisis than British. But he and the prime minister Fran\u00e7ois Fillon were not just having a pop. This was a regular fusillade.Comrades, we are in the same boat. A sinking one. Fitch put six eurozone countries on negative watch \u2013 Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus. The exit of any or each from the eurozone would impact on Britain. So there's no room for crowing. And that applies as much to British eurosceptics as it does to French ministers blowing raspberries. Oh, and add to that David Cameron's less than helpful calls to the non-euro states of Denmark, Sweden and the Czech Republic, which were taken by France as agitation against a fiscal compact before it had even been finalised. The truth is multiform. Some of Cameron's cabinet colleagues are rightly having kittens about the position he has landed them in, and some of the other 26 EU members harbour grave, as yet sotto voce, doubts about the deal they signed up to. The two do not cancel each other out.As Simon Tilford of the Centre for European Reform argues, the fiscal compact agreed in Brussels and about which a draft version circulated yesterday hard-wires pro-cyclical, fiscal austerity into the institutional framework of the eurozone. The German view of the crisis is a morality tale, pitting sinners in the profligate southern periphery against the virtuous in the north who put all their savings in a bank rather than spend it. The crisis is as much a tale of excess bank leverage and poor risk management at the core as it is of excess consumption at the periphery. Look at what is happening to a country which is doing all that Germany is asking of it. Ireland's GNP shrank by 1.9% in the last quarter. Ireland does not have any room for manoeuvre. All the bailout money is going towards financing the deficit and the debt.There are political downsides to the Brussels deal. Britain is not alone in disliking the idea of a two- or multi-speed Europe. The Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltic states, Hungary, all of which have lived on the periphery of one empire, the Soviet one, have no desire to live on the periphery of another. Austria and Finland think Germany has got the economics of the cure wrong. Italy's technocrat prime minister Mario Monti won a vote of confidence in the lower house speeding up the passage of the austerity budget bill, but in Italy's dysfunctional body politic some are waiting for that plan to fail. In France Marine Le Pen is making hay on her long-standing opposition to the euro.There is little Christmas cheer in this picture. If the leaders of countries like Britain and France don't realise what they have in common, it is no exaggeration to say that Europe risks being torn apart by nationalism, economic protectionism, and the anti-immigrant xenophobia of the far right. Folk need to get back round the table. They do not do that by shouting at each other.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union"], "title": "Britain and France: seasonal greetings | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:08:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "Turkey's prime minister has accused France of having committed genocide during its colonial occupation of Algeria in the latest round of the worst diplomatic row between the two Nato allies in more than a century.The claim by Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday follows French MPs' approval of a law that would make it a criminal offence to deny that the mass killing of Armenians in 1915 by Ottoman Turks was genocide.Turkey has frozen political and diplomatic relations with France, recalling its ambassador to Paris and suspending all economic, political and military meetings. Erdogan has withdrawn permission for French military planes to land and warships to dock in Turkey and annulled joint military exercises. He said he would decide, case by case, whether to allow the French military to use Turkish airspace.\"What the French did in Algeria was genocide,\" he said in a deeply personal speech laced with\u00a0criticism of France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy.Erdogan said that about 15% of the Algerian population was massacred during the French occupation from 1945 to 1962. \"They were mercilessly martyred. If Mr Sarkozy doesn't know there was a genocide, he can ask his father, Pal Sarkozy \u2026 who was a legionnaire in Algeria in the 1940s. I'm sure he has a lot to tell his son about the massacres committed by the French in Algeria.\"Pal Sarkozy told French TV: \"I was never in Algeria. I didn't get further than Marseille, I was in the [foreign] legion for four months.\"The row has simmered for weeks, but erupted on Thursday after French MPs approved a bill which would make denying the Armenian genocide a criminal offence punishable by a one-year prison sentence and a fine of \u20ac45,000.Erdogan said the bill was \"a clear example of how racism, discrimination and anti-Muslim sentiment have reached new heights in France and in Europe.\" He said: \"President Sarkozy's ambition is to win an election based on promoting animosity against Turks and Muslims.\"Under Sarkozy, who has opposed Turkey's stalled bid to join the EU, Paris-Ankara relations have been tricky. Turkey has accused his rightwing UMP party of using the genocide bill to court the 500,000 French-Armenian voters in next year's presidential and parliamentary elections. Socialists also supported criminalising genocide denial.\"I respect the convictions of our Turkish friends \u2013 it's a great country, a great civilisation \u2013 and they should respect ours,\" Sarkozy said on Friday, after arriving in Prague for the funeral of the former Czech president V\u00e1clav Havel.The French foreign minister, Alain Jupp\u00e9, who has tried to smooth tensions, called for \"restraint\", saying he wanted to preserve \"trust and friendship\". He added that some declarations had been \"no doubt excessive\".Most historians contend the Ottoman killings of the Armenians constituted the first genocide of the 20th century. Ankara denies the killings constitute genocide and says many Muslim Turks and Kurds were also put to death as Russian troops invaded eastern Anatolia, often aided by Armenian militias. The issue weighs heavily on political pride and Turkey's international relations. In Washington Barack Obama has stopped short of calling the killings genocide.The French parliament recognised the Armenian killings as genocide in 2001. The bill to criminalise genocide denial must go before the senate next year.", "tags": ["Turkey", "France", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Algeria", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Armenia", "World news", "War crimes", "Law", "Armenian genocide"], "title": "Turkey accuses France of genocide in Algeria"},{"date": "2011-11-17T11:57:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Metro France, under its new ownership by the commercial TV channel TF1, is planning to expand distribution next year from 30 to 60 cities.According to director Edouard Boccon-Gibod, this means that coverage in France will rise from 68 to 90% of the country. But circulation will stay the same because distribution in existing markets will be lowered.Metro France is now distributed in nine different daily editions with a total circulation of 770,000 copies.After 20 Minutes and DirectPlus it is France's third free daily.Sources: Newspaper Innovation In French: Ozap", "tags": ["Media", "Metro", "France", "Newspapers", "Free newspapers", "Europe"], "title": "Metro to cover 90% of France"},{"date": "2011-11-15T21:03:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "France slumped to 13th place in a eurozone league table of financial security, adding to fears that the second largest economy in the 17-member currency club could lose its top-notch credit status within the next few months.Analysts said the overall health of the French economy ranked only one place above Italy, and below several countries often mentioned as being near to bankruptcy, including Spain and Ireland.The report by the Brussels-based thinktank the Lisbon Council came as fund managers warned that confidence was quickly evaporating in France's ability to deal with growing government debts and potential bad loans held by its banks.Mike Riddell, a fund manager at M&G, one of the UK's largest bond investors, said France was seeing \"a full-blown run on its debt\" after the yields on 10-year government bonds soared to 3.69%, the highest since the formation of the euro 12 years ago. The costs of insuring investments in the French debt market also jumped to their highest level since 1999.Riddell said Paris was considered to be closer to Rome than Berlin in terms of dealing with escalating debts and troubled banks, while Stuart Thomson, chief economist at Glasgow-based fund manager Ignis, said France was almost certain to lose its AAA credit rating.A lending spree to peripheral eurozone countries including Italy and Spain and many of the emerging market economies in eastern Europe has undermined the stability of French banks and increased their risk of collapse, he said. In the event of a bailout, the French taxpayer would need to find billions of euros to prevent them from going\u00a0bankrupt.The French finance minister, Francois Baroin, rejected pleas from Brussels last week to make steeper cuts in government spending. He said a series of austerity measures already in the pipeline would be sufficient to reduce spending and bring the country's annual deficit to within manageable limits.France announced a \u20ac19bn (\u00a316bn) package of cuts this month that took the total package of tax rises and cost-savings to around \u20ac65bn over five years.But the French finance ministry has remained silent on the impact of investments by the country's banks in Italy, Spain and other indebted nations.French banks are believed to hold the highest amount of Italian debt of any eurozone country. Large-scale loans in parts of eastern Europe could turn sour after a slowdown in growth in Europe that is forcing some firms into bankruptcy.An indicator of the dangers was provided by Italian bank Unicredit in its annual results earlier this week, when it wrote off \u20ac9.6bn and ringfenced more than \u20ac40bn in its accounts, much of it loans in eastern Europe. Banks are not obliged to provide details of their lending, and governments have resisted publishing a breakdown of loans made to different countries or banks. Around two-thirds of all lending in the eurozone is between its 7,000 banks and institutions in the US, Asia and the Middle East. Eurozone banks hold around \u20ac55trn in assets, much of them loans to sovereign countries or other banks.The Lisbon Council's Euro Plus Monitor report said: \"Alarm bells should be ringing for France. Among the six eurozone countries with an AAA rating, France achieves by far the lowest ranking in the overall health check. The results are too mediocre for a country that wants to safeguard its place in the top league.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Rating agencies", "Euro", "European banks", "Euro", "Financial sector", "European Union", "Currencies", "Business", "Economics", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Debts in France threaten top credit rating"},{"date": "2011-10-25T13:02:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "Some wild flowers have already vanished from the French countryside. Pheasant's eye, cornflower, corncockle and Venus's looking glass are getting rare. The environment ministry is preparing a plan to preserve these plants, whose life cycle is closely linked to the harvest.\"All over Europe the situation is the same, with these species in serious decline,\" says Am\u00e9lie Coantic, at the ministry's wildlife department. \"Out of 102 varieties identified in France, 52 are under threat and seven have already disappeared.\"For thousands of years they flourished beside wheat and rye and other cereals, but they have not been able to withstand intensive farming. Although they are hardly competitive with the main crop, they have long been treated as weeds.\"Widespread use of herbicides was a turning point,\" says Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Coulon, an agricultural engineer at Solagro, an organisation advocating sustainable farming. \"To achieve the largest possible yields, farmers increased seed density and prevented these species from growing.\"With changes in crop cycles, specialised seeds, deep ploughing and land with poor productivity being set aside, wild flowers have been driven to the edges of fields, where they struggle to survive. In the Paris area, a third of them have disappeared already and another third is threatened with extinction. The poppy is still abundant all over France, but corncockle and darnel, among others, are in a precarious situation.Botanists started being worried in the 1960s, because the flowers are a good indication of biodiversity on farmland, and they provide food for many pollinating insects. \"In the long term losing these pollinators will damage farming itself, because even cereals need to be pollinated,\" Coulon said.The plants also nourish wild birds and help combat crop pests by attracting ladybirds and syrphids, which feed on aphids, acting as a natural pesticide and reducing the need for chemicals.\"We need to draw attention to the biological value of these plants, so that their disappearance is no longer the exclusive concern of naturalists,\" says Serge Largier, head of the Pyrenees Botanical Conservatory (CBN). \"That way farmers may learn to cultivate their land as an ecosystem in its own right, not just an expanse of monoculture.\"France's national plan for 2012-16 will include an overall inventory and the introduction of agro-ecological zones which must provide strips for wild flowers. \"We may consider encouraging reseeding or setting aside more land as fallow,\" says Coantic. The specialists believe that to save these species the use of herbicides and fertilisers will have to be reduced, with a return to shallow ploughed furrows.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Agriculture", "France"], "title": "France loses its harvest wild flowers"},{"date": "2011-12-16T21:37:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "The political cartoonist of his time JS Gillray depicted William Pitt and Napoleon carving up the plum pudding of the globe (Pitt helps himself to the larger slice). Britain and France always were the best of enemies. They share similar delusions. Each harbours a misplaced belief in the exceptionalism of their culture, the universality of their language and the intelligence of their diplomats. To this list should this week be added the moral superiority of their economy. Two French cabinet ministers and a senior bank official reduced the cross-channel dialogue to the level of a year-six spat in a playground by suggesting the US credit ratings agencies should more usefully turn their attention on Britain, a land with a greater deficit, more inflation and less growth than France. The French finance minister Fran\u00e7ois Baroin might have been trying to deflect attention from the anticipated loss of his country's own AAA rating, by saying that the economic situation in Britain was very worrying and he would rather be French in this crisis than British. But he and the prime minister Fran\u00e7ois Fillon were not just having a pop. This was a regular fusillade.Comrades, we are in the same boat. A sinking one. Fitch put six eurozone countries on negative watch \u2013 Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus. The exit of any or each from the eurozone would impact on Britain. So there's no room for crowing. And that applies as much to British eurosceptics as it does to French ministers blowing raspberries. Oh, and add to that David Cameron's less than helpful calls to the non-euro states of Denmark, Sweden and the Czech Republic, which were taken by France as agitation against a fiscal compact before it had even been finalised. The truth is multiform. Some of Cameron's cabinet colleagues are rightly having kittens about the position he has landed them in, and some of the other 26 EU members harbour grave, as yet sotto voce, doubts about the deal they signed up to. The two do not cancel each other out.As Simon Tilford of the Centre for European Reform argues, the fiscal compact agreed in Brussels and about which a draft version circulated yesterday hard-wires pro-cyclical, fiscal austerity into the institutional framework of the eurozone. The German view of the crisis is a morality tale, pitting sinners in the profligate southern periphery against the virtuous in the north who put all their savings in a bank rather than spend it. The crisis is as much a tale of excess bank leverage and poor risk management at the core as it is of excess consumption at the periphery. Look at what is happening to a country which is doing all that Germany is asking of it. Ireland's GNP shrank by 1.9% in the last quarter. Ireland does not have any room for manoeuvre. All the bailout money is going towards financing the deficit and the debt.There are political downsides to the Brussels deal. Britain is not alone in disliking the idea of a two- or multi-speed Europe. The Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltic states, Hungary, all of which have lived on the periphery of one empire, the Soviet one, have no desire to live on the periphery of another. Austria and Finland think Germany has got the economics of the cure wrong. Italy's technocrat prime minister Mario Monti won a vote of confidence in the lower house speeding up the passage of the austerity budget bill, but in Italy's dysfunctional body politic some are waiting for that plan to fail. In France Marine Le Pen is making hay on her long-standing opposition to the euro.There is little Christmas cheer in this picture. If the leaders of countries like Britain and France don't realise what they have in common, it is no exaggeration to say that Europe risks being torn apart by nationalism, economic protectionism, and the anti-immigrant xenophobia of the far right. Folk need to get back round the table. They do not do that by shouting at each other.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union"], "title": "Britain and France: seasonal greetings | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:08:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "Turkey's prime minister has accused France of having committed genocide during its colonial occupation of Algeria in the latest round of the worst diplomatic row between the two Nato allies in more than a century.The claim by Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday follows French MPs' approval of a law that would make it a criminal offence to deny that the mass killing of Armenians in 1915 by Ottoman Turks was genocide.Turkey has frozen political and diplomatic relations with France, recalling its ambassador to Paris and suspending all economic, political and military meetings. Erdogan has withdrawn permission for French military planes to land and warships to dock in Turkey and annulled joint military exercises. He said he would decide, case by case, whether to allow the French military to use Turkish airspace.\"What the French did in Algeria was genocide,\" he said in a deeply personal speech laced with\u00a0criticism of France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy.Erdogan said that about 15% of the Algerian population was massacred during the French occupation from 1945 to 1962. \"They were mercilessly martyred. If Mr Sarkozy doesn't know there was a genocide, he can ask his father, Pal Sarkozy \u2026 who was a legionnaire in Algeria in the 1940s. I'm sure he has a lot to tell his son about the massacres committed by the French in Algeria.\"Pal Sarkozy told French TV: \"I was never in Algeria. I didn't get further than Marseille, I was in the [foreign] legion for four months.\"The row has simmered for weeks, but erupted on Thursday after French MPs approved a bill which would make denying the Armenian genocide a criminal offence punishable by a one-year prison sentence and a fine of \u20ac45,000.Erdogan said the bill was \"a clear example of how racism, discrimination and anti-Muslim sentiment have reached new heights in France and in Europe.\" He said: \"President Sarkozy's ambition is to win an election based on promoting animosity against Turks and Muslims.\"Under Sarkozy, who has opposed Turkey's stalled bid to join the EU, Paris-Ankara relations have been tricky. Turkey has accused his rightwing UMP party of using the genocide bill to court the 500,000 French-Armenian voters in next year's presidential and parliamentary elections. Socialists also supported criminalising genocide denial.\"I respect the convictions of our Turkish friends \u2013 it's a great country, a great civilisation \u2013 and they should respect ours,\" Sarkozy said on Friday, after arriving in Prague for the funeral of the former Czech president V\u00e1clav Havel.The French foreign minister, Alain Jupp\u00e9, who has tried to smooth tensions, called for \"restraint\", saying he wanted to preserve \"trust and friendship\". He added that some declarations had been \"no doubt excessive\".Most historians contend the Ottoman killings of the Armenians constituted the first genocide of the 20th century. Ankara denies the killings constitute genocide and says many Muslim Turks and Kurds were also put to death as Russian troops invaded eastern Anatolia, often aided by Armenian militias. The issue weighs heavily on political pride and Turkey's international relations. In Washington Barack Obama has stopped short of calling the killings genocide.The French parliament recognised the Armenian killings as genocide in 2001. The bill to criminalise genocide denial must go before the senate next year.", "tags": ["Turkey", "France", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Algeria", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Armenia", "World news", "War crimes", "Law", "Armenian genocide"], "title": "Turkey accuses France of genocide in Algeria"},{"date": "2011-11-17T11:57:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Metro France, under its new ownership by the commercial TV channel TF1, is planning to expand distribution next year from 30 to 60 cities.According to director Edouard Boccon-Gibod, this means that coverage in France will rise from 68 to 90% of the country. But circulation will stay the same because distribution in existing markets will be lowered.Metro France is now distributed in nine different daily editions with a total circulation of 770,000 copies.After 20 Minutes and DirectPlus it is France's third free daily.Sources: Newspaper Innovation In French: Ozap", "tags": ["Media", "Metro", "France", "Newspapers", "Free newspapers", "Europe"], "title": "Metro to cover 90% of France"},{"date": "2011-11-15T21:03:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "France slumped to 13th place in a eurozone league table of financial security, adding to fears that the second largest economy in the 17-member currency club could lose its top-notch credit status within the next few months.Analysts said the overall health of the French economy ranked only one place above Italy, and below several countries often mentioned as being near to bankruptcy, including Spain and Ireland.The report by the Brussels-based thinktank the Lisbon Council came as fund managers warned that confidence was quickly evaporating in France's ability to deal with growing government debts and potential bad loans held by its banks.Mike Riddell, a fund manager at M&G, one of the UK's largest bond investors, said France was seeing \"a full-blown run on its debt\" after the yields on 10-year government bonds soared to 3.69%, the highest since the formation of the euro 12 years ago. The costs of insuring investments in the French debt market also jumped to their highest level since 1999.Riddell said Paris was considered to be closer to Rome than Berlin in terms of dealing with escalating debts and troubled banks, while Stuart Thomson, chief economist at Glasgow-based fund manager Ignis, said France was almost certain to lose its AAA credit rating.A lending spree to peripheral eurozone countries including Italy and Spain and many of the emerging market economies in eastern Europe has undermined the stability of French banks and increased their risk of collapse, he said. In the event of a bailout, the French taxpayer would need to find billions of euros to prevent them from going\u00a0bankrupt.The French finance minister, Francois Baroin, rejected pleas from Brussels last week to make steeper cuts in government spending. He said a series of austerity measures already in the pipeline would be sufficient to reduce spending and bring the country's annual deficit to within manageable limits.France announced a \u20ac19bn (\u00a316bn) package of cuts this month that took the total package of tax rises and cost-savings to around \u20ac65bn over five years.But the French finance ministry has remained silent on the impact of investments by the country's banks in Italy, Spain and other indebted nations.French banks are believed to hold the highest amount of Italian debt of any eurozone country. Large-scale loans in parts of eastern Europe could turn sour after a slowdown in growth in Europe that is forcing some firms into bankruptcy.An indicator of the dangers was provided by Italian bank Unicredit in its annual results earlier this week, when it wrote off \u20ac9.6bn and ringfenced more than \u20ac40bn in its accounts, much of it loans in eastern Europe. Banks are not obliged to provide details of their lending, and governments have resisted publishing a breakdown of loans made to different countries or banks. Around two-thirds of all lending in the eurozone is between its 7,000 banks and institutions in the US, Asia and the Middle East. Eurozone banks hold around \u20ac55trn in assets, much of them loans to sovereign countries or other banks.The Lisbon Council's Euro Plus Monitor report said: \"Alarm bells should be ringing for France. Among the six eurozone countries with an AAA rating, France achieves by far the lowest ranking in the overall health check. The results are too mediocre for a country that wants to safeguard its place in the top league.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Rating agencies", "Euro", "European banks", "Euro", "Financial sector", "European Union", "Currencies", "Business", "Economics", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Debts in France threaten top credit rating"},{"date": "2011-10-25T13:02:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "Some wild flowers have already vanished from the French countryside. Pheasant's eye, cornflower, corncockle and Venus's looking glass are getting rare. The environment ministry is preparing a plan to preserve these plants, whose life cycle is closely linked to the harvest.\"All over Europe the situation is the same, with these species in serious decline,\" says Am\u00e9lie Coantic, at the ministry's wildlife department. \"Out of 102 varieties identified in France, 52 are under threat and seven have already disappeared.\"For thousands of years they flourished beside wheat and rye and other cereals, but they have not been able to withstand intensive farming. Although they are hardly competitive with the main crop, they have long been treated as weeds.\"Widespread use of herbicides was a turning point,\" says Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Coulon, an agricultural engineer at Solagro, an organisation advocating sustainable farming. \"To achieve the largest possible yields, farmers increased seed density and prevented these species from growing.\"With changes in crop cycles, specialised seeds, deep ploughing and land with poor productivity being set aside, wild flowers have been driven to the edges of fields, where they struggle to survive. In the Paris area, a third of them have disappeared already and another third is threatened with extinction. The poppy is still abundant all over France, but corncockle and darnel, among others, are in a precarious situation.Botanists started being worried in the 1960s, because the flowers are a good indication of biodiversity on farmland, and they provide food for many pollinating insects. \"In the long term losing these pollinators will damage farming itself, because even cereals need to be pollinated,\" Coulon said.The plants also nourish wild birds and help combat crop pests by attracting ladybirds and syrphids, which feed on aphids, acting as a natural pesticide and reducing the need for chemicals.\"We need to draw attention to the biological value of these plants, so that their disappearance is no longer the exclusive concern of naturalists,\" says Serge Largier, head of the Pyrenees Botanical Conservatory (CBN). \"That way farmers may learn to cultivate their land as an ecosystem in its own right, not just an expanse of monoculture.\"France's national plan for 2012-16 will include an overall inventory and the introduction of agro-ecological zones which must provide strips for wild flowers. \"We may consider encouraging reseeding or setting aside more land as fallow,\" says Coantic. The specialists believe that to save these species the use of herbicides and fertilisers will have to be reduced, with a return to shallow ploughed furrows.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Agriculture", "France"], "title": "France loses its harvest wild flowers"},{"date": "2011-10-17T15:41:59Z", "country": "france", "content": "Politicians, historians and protesters gathered in Paris to mark the 50th anniversary of a police crackdown on Algerian anti-war demonstrators that has become one of the most shameful episodes of modern French history.The events of 17 October 1961 are considered a massacre by many Algerians, who claim up to 300 members of their community died at the hands of the Paris police.Many are angry that the French government has never officially apologised for the bloody attack \u2013 which does not appear in school history books \u2013 and that the authorities still dispute the death toll.According to officials, less than a handful of protesters died, while historians say the number of Algerians killed \u2013 some of them beaten and thrown into the river Seine \u2013 was between 50 and 120.On Monday, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande chose to mark the tragedy as his first official engagement as the newly elected Socialist party presidential candidate.Hollande, named as the Socialists' choice to take on Nicolas Sarkozy in next year's presidential elections barely 12 hours earlier, on Monday threw a single red rose into the Seine from the bridge at Clichy, the suburb where many of the victims lived.Afterwards he unveiled a plaque engraved with: \"From this bridge and other bridges in the Paris region, Algerian demonstrators were thrown into the Seine on the 17 October 1961, victims of a blind repression. In their memory.\"Benjamin Stora, a local resident and specialist in Algerian history, said it was a first step towards \"recognising one of the biggest French tragedies\".Bertrand Delano\u00eb, the mayor of Paris who was born in Tunisia, another former French colony, placed a wreath at the St Michel bridge where there is a plaque marking what his office described as a \"bloody repression\".On the evening of 17 October 1961, at the height of the Franco-Algerian war, tens of thousands of Algerian protesters, including women and children, from around Paris gathered at various landmarks to demonstrate against what they considered a \"racist and discriminatory\" curfew imposed against them.The mobilisation had been organised by the Paris wing of the Algerian National Liberation Front (FLN), an organisation that was fighting for Algeria's independence from France and had been accused of carrying out attacks on Paris police that left a dozen dead.It was intended to be a peaceful demonstration, but Maurice Papon, the Paris police chief, ordered his officers to stamp out the protests. As the Algerians gathered, the police acted swiftly and brutally, firing on protesters and arresting an estimated 11,500 who were herded on to buses and taken to makeshift detention centres where many claimed they were beaten and held for days without food.Claims that officers had beaten protesters and dumped them into the Seine appeared to be confirmed when bodies were washed up on the banks of the river.Though nobody could have foreseen the extent of the violence, tensions between the Paris police and the city's Algerian community had been building up after the curfew was introduced in response to the police deaths.The daily newspaper France-Soir said: \"Fifty years on and a wall of silence exists around these events. The Algerians of France would today like France to recognise its responsibility.\"Papon was awarded the L\u00e9gion d'Honneur by President Charles de Gaulle the same year as the Algerian killings, and went on to hold a number of senior official posts.In 1981 details emerged of his part in the deportation between 1942 and 1944 of 1,690 Jews from Bordeaux, where he was secretary of police, , but it was not until 1998 that he was convicted of crimes against humanity and stripped of his decorations and titles.The Algerian war, which started in 1954, ended in Algeria's independence from France in 1962.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Algeria", "Africa", "Maurice Papon", "War crimes", "Law"], "title": "France remembers Algerian massacre 50 years on"},{"date": "2011-12-16T21:37:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "The political cartoonist of his time JS Gillray depicted William Pitt and Napoleon carving up the plum pudding of the globe (Pitt helps himself to the larger slice). Britain and France always were the best of enemies. They share similar delusions. Each harbours a misplaced belief in the exceptionalism of their culture, the universality of their language and the intelligence of their diplomats. To this list should this week be added the moral superiority of their economy. Two French cabinet ministers and a senior bank official reduced the cross-channel dialogue to the level of a year-six spat in a playground by suggesting the US credit ratings agencies should more usefully turn their attention on Britain, a land with a greater deficit, more inflation and less growth than France. The French finance minister Fran\u00e7ois Baroin might have been trying to deflect attention from the anticipated loss of his country's own AAA rating, by saying that the economic situation in Britain was very worrying and he would rather be French in this crisis than British. But he and the prime minister Fran\u00e7ois Fillon were not just having a pop. This was a regular fusillade.Comrades, we are in the same boat. A sinking one. Fitch put six eurozone countries on negative watch \u2013 Belgium, Spain, Slovenia, Italy, Ireland and Cyprus. The exit of any or each from the eurozone would impact on Britain. So there's no room for crowing. And that applies as much to British eurosceptics as it does to French ministers blowing raspberries. Oh, and add to that David Cameron's less than helpful calls to the non-euro states of Denmark, Sweden and the Czech Republic, which were taken by France as agitation against a fiscal compact before it had even been finalised. The truth is multiform. Some of Cameron's cabinet colleagues are rightly having kittens about the position he has landed them in, and some of the other 26 EU members harbour grave, as yet sotto voce, doubts about the deal they signed up to. The two do not cancel each other out.As Simon Tilford of the Centre for European Reform argues, the fiscal compact agreed in Brussels and about which a draft version circulated yesterday hard-wires pro-cyclical, fiscal austerity into the institutional framework of the eurozone. The German view of the crisis is a morality tale, pitting sinners in the profligate southern periphery against the virtuous in the north who put all their savings in a bank rather than spend it. The crisis is as much a tale of excess bank leverage and poor risk management at the core as it is of excess consumption at the periphery. Look at what is happening to a country which is doing all that Germany is asking of it. Ireland's GNP shrank by 1.9% in the last quarter. Ireland does not have any room for manoeuvre. All the bailout money is going towards financing the deficit and the debt.There are political downsides to the Brussels deal. Britain is not alone in disliking the idea of a two- or multi-speed Europe. The Czech Republic, Poland, the Baltic states, Hungary, all of which have lived on the periphery of one empire, the Soviet one, have no desire to live on the periphery of another. Austria and Finland think Germany has got the economics of the cure wrong. Italy's technocrat prime minister Mario Monti won a vote of confidence in the lower house speeding up the passage of the austerity budget bill, but in Italy's dysfunctional body politic some are waiting for that plan to fail. In France Marine Le Pen is making hay on her long-standing opposition to the euro.There is little Christmas cheer in this picture. If the leaders of countries like Britain and France don't realise what they have in common, it is no exaggeration to say that Europe risks being torn apart by nationalism, economic protectionism, and the anti-immigrant xenophobia of the far right. Folk need to get back round the table. They do not do that by shouting at each other.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union"], "title": "Britain and France: seasonal greetings | Editorial"},{"date": "2011-12-23T15:08:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "Turkey's prime minister has accused France of having committed genocide during its colonial occupation of Algeria in the latest round of the worst diplomatic row between the two Nato allies in more than a century.The claim by Recep Tayyip Erdogan on Friday follows French MPs' approval of a law that would make it a criminal offence to deny that the mass killing of Armenians in 1915 by Ottoman Turks was genocide.Turkey has frozen political and diplomatic relations with France, recalling its ambassador to Paris and suspending all economic, political and military meetings. Erdogan has withdrawn permission for French military planes to land and warships to dock in Turkey and annulled joint military exercises. He said he would decide, case by case, whether to allow the French military to use Turkish airspace.\"What the French did in Algeria was genocide,\" he said in a deeply personal speech laced with\u00a0criticism of France's president, Nicolas Sarkozy.Erdogan said that about 15% of the Algerian population was massacred during the French occupation from 1945 to 1962. \"They were mercilessly martyred. If Mr Sarkozy doesn't know there was a genocide, he can ask his father, Pal Sarkozy \u2026 who was a legionnaire in Algeria in the 1940s. I'm sure he has a lot to tell his son about the massacres committed by the French in Algeria.\"Pal Sarkozy told French TV: \"I was never in Algeria. I didn't get further than Marseille, I was in the [foreign] legion for four months.\"The row has simmered for weeks, but erupted on Thursday after French MPs approved a bill which would make denying the Armenian genocide a criminal offence punishable by a one-year prison sentence and a fine of \u20ac45,000.Erdogan said the bill was \"a clear example of how racism, discrimination and anti-Muslim sentiment have reached new heights in France and in Europe.\" He said: \"President Sarkozy's ambition is to win an election based on promoting animosity against Turks and Muslims.\"Under Sarkozy, who has opposed Turkey's stalled bid to join the EU, Paris-Ankara relations have been tricky. Turkey has accused his rightwing UMP party of using the genocide bill to court the 500,000 French-Armenian voters in next year's presidential and parliamentary elections. Socialists also supported criminalising genocide denial.\"I respect the convictions of our Turkish friends \u2013 it's a great country, a great civilisation \u2013 and they should respect ours,\" Sarkozy said on Friday, after arriving in Prague for the funeral of the former Czech president V\u00e1clav Havel.The French foreign minister, Alain Jupp\u00e9, who has tried to smooth tensions, called for \"restraint\", saying he wanted to preserve \"trust and friendship\". He added that some declarations had been \"no doubt excessive\".Most historians contend the Ottoman killings of the Armenians constituted the first genocide of the 20th century. Ankara denies the killings constitute genocide and says many Muslim Turks and Kurds were also put to death as Russian troops invaded eastern Anatolia, often aided by Armenian militias. The issue weighs heavily on political pride and Turkey's international relations. In Washington Barack Obama has stopped short of calling the killings genocide.The French parliament recognised the Armenian killings as genocide in 2001. The bill to criminalise genocide denial must go before the senate next year.", "tags": ["Turkey", "France", "Recep Tayyip Erdo\u011fan", "Algeria", "Nicolas Sarkozy", "Armenia", "World news", "War crimes", "Law", "Armenian genocide"], "title": "Turkey accuses France of genocide in Algeria"},{"date": "2011-11-17T11:57:36Z", "country": "france", "content": "Metro France, under its new ownership by the commercial TV channel TF1, is planning to expand distribution next year from 30 to 60 cities.According to director Edouard Boccon-Gibod, this means that coverage in France will rise from 68 to 90% of the country. But circulation will stay the same because distribution in existing markets will be lowered.Metro France is now distributed in nine different daily editions with a total circulation of 770,000 copies.After 20 Minutes and DirectPlus it is France's third free daily.Sources: Newspaper Innovation In French: Ozap", "tags": ["Media", "Metro", "France", "Newspapers", "Free newspapers", "Europe"], "title": "Metro to cover 90% of France"},{"date": "2011-11-15T21:03:39Z", "country": "france", "content": "France slumped to 13th place in a eurozone league table of financial security, adding to fears that the second largest economy in the 17-member currency club could lose its top-notch credit status within the next few months.Analysts said the overall health of the French economy ranked only one place above Italy, and below several countries often mentioned as being near to bankruptcy, including Spain and Ireland.The report by the Brussels-based thinktank the Lisbon Council came as fund managers warned that confidence was quickly evaporating in France's ability to deal with growing government debts and potential bad loans held by its banks.Mike Riddell, a fund manager at M&G, one of the UK's largest bond investors, said France was seeing \"a full-blown run on its debt\" after the yields on 10-year government bonds soared to 3.69%, the highest since the formation of the euro 12 years ago. The costs of insuring investments in the French debt market also jumped to their highest level since 1999.Riddell said Paris was considered to be closer to Rome than Berlin in terms of dealing with escalating debts and troubled banks, while Stuart Thomson, chief economist at Glasgow-based fund manager Ignis, said France was almost certain to lose its AAA credit rating.A lending spree to peripheral eurozone countries including Italy and Spain and many of the emerging market economies in eastern Europe has undermined the stability of French banks and increased their risk of collapse, he said. In the event of a bailout, the French taxpayer would need to find billions of euros to prevent them from going\u00a0bankrupt.The French finance minister, Francois Baroin, rejected pleas from Brussels last week to make steeper cuts in government spending. He said a series of austerity measures already in the pipeline would be sufficient to reduce spending and bring the country's annual deficit to within manageable limits.France announced a \u20ac19bn (\u00a316bn) package of cuts this month that took the total package of tax rises and cost-savings to around \u20ac65bn over five years.But the French finance ministry has remained silent on the impact of investments by the country's banks in Italy, Spain and other indebted nations.French banks are believed to hold the highest amount of Italian debt of any eurozone country. Large-scale loans in parts of eastern Europe could turn sour after a slowdown in growth in Europe that is forcing some firms into bankruptcy.An indicator of the dangers was provided by Italian bank Unicredit in its annual results earlier this week, when it wrote off \u20ac9.6bn and ringfenced more than \u20ac40bn in its accounts, much of it loans in eastern Europe. Banks are not obliged to provide details of their lending, and governments have resisted publishing a breakdown of loans made to different countries or banks. Around two-thirds of all lending in the eurozone is between its 7,000 banks and institutions in the US, Asia and the Middle East. Eurozone banks hold around \u20ac55trn in assets, much of them loans to sovereign countries or other banks.The Lisbon Council's Euro Plus Monitor report said: \"Alarm bells should be ringing for France. Among the six eurozone countries with an AAA rating, France achieves by far the lowest ranking in the overall health check. The results are too mediocre for a country that wants to safeguard its place in the top league.\"", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Rating agencies", "Euro", "European banks", "Euro", "Financial sector", "European Union", "Currencies", "Business", "Economics", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Debts in France threaten top credit rating"},{"date": "2011-10-25T13:02:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "Some wild flowers have already vanished from the French countryside. Pheasant's eye, cornflower, corncockle and Venus's looking glass are getting rare. The environment ministry is preparing a plan to preserve these plants, whose life cycle is closely linked to the harvest.\"All over Europe the situation is the same, with these species in serious decline,\" says Am\u00e9lie Coantic, at the ministry's wildlife department. \"Out of 102 varieties identified in France, 52 are under threat and seven have already disappeared.\"For thousands of years they flourished beside wheat and rye and other cereals, but they have not been able to withstand intensive farming. Although they are hardly competitive with the main crop, they have long been treated as weeds.\"Widespread use of herbicides was a turning point,\" says Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Coulon, an agricultural engineer at Solagro, an organisation advocating sustainable farming. \"To achieve the largest possible yields, farmers increased seed density and prevented these species from growing.\"With changes in crop cycles, specialised seeds, deep ploughing and land with poor productivity being set aside, wild flowers have been driven to the edges of fields, where they struggle to survive. In the Paris area, a third of them have disappeared already and another third is threatened with extinction. The poppy is still abundant all over France, but corncockle and darnel, among others, are in a precarious situation.Botanists started being worried in the 1960s, because the flowers are a good indication of biodiversity on farmland, and they provide food for many pollinating insects. \"In the long term losing these pollinators will damage farming itself, because even cereals need to be pollinated,\" Coulon said.The plants also nourish wild birds and help combat crop pests by attracting ladybirds and syrphids, which feed on aphids, acting as a natural pesticide and reducing the need for chemicals.\"We need to draw attention to the biological value of these plants, so that their disappearance is no longer the exclusive concern of naturalists,\" says Serge Largier, head of the Pyrenees Botanical Conservatory (CBN). \"That way farmers may learn to cultivate their land as an ecosystem in its own right, not just an expanse of monoculture.\"France's national plan for 2012-16 will include an overall inventory and the introduction of agro-ecological zones which must provide strips for wild flowers. \"We may consider encouraging reseeding or setting aside more land as fallow,\" says Coantic. The specialists believe that to save these species the use of herbicides and fertilisers will have to be reduced, with a return to shallow ploughed furrows.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Agriculture", "France"], "title": "France loses its harvest wild flowers"},{"date": "2011-10-17T15:41:59Z", "country": "france", "content": "Politicians, historians and protesters gathered in Paris to mark the 50th anniversary of a police crackdown on Algerian anti-war demonstrators that has become one of the most shameful episodes of modern French history.The events of 17 October 1961 are considered a massacre by many Algerians, who claim up to 300 members of their community died at the hands of the Paris police.Many are angry that the French government has never officially apologised for the bloody attack \u2013 which does not appear in school history books \u2013 and that the authorities still dispute the death toll.According to officials, less than a handful of protesters died, while historians say the number of Algerians killed \u2013 some of them beaten and thrown into the river Seine \u2013 was between 50 and 120.On Monday, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande chose to mark the tragedy as his first official engagement as the newly elected Socialist party presidential candidate.Hollande, named as the Socialists' choice to take on Nicolas Sarkozy in next year's presidential elections barely 12 hours earlier, on Monday threw a single red rose into the Seine from the bridge at Clichy, the suburb where many of the victims lived.Afterwards he unveiled a plaque engraved with: \"From this bridge and other bridges in the Paris region, Algerian demonstrators were thrown into the Seine on the 17 October 1961, victims of a blind repression. In their memory.\"Benjamin Stora, a local resident and specialist in Algerian history, said it was a first step towards \"recognising one of the biggest French tragedies\".Bertrand Delano\u00eb, the mayor of Paris who was born in Tunisia, another former French colony, placed a wreath at the St Michel bridge where there is a plaque marking what his office described as a \"bloody repression\".On the evening of 17 October 1961, at the height of the Franco-Algerian war, tens of thousands of Algerian protesters, including women and children, from around Paris gathered at various landmarks to demonstrate against what they considered a \"racist and discriminatory\" curfew imposed against them.The mobilisation had been organised by the Paris wing of the Algerian National Liberation Front (FLN), an organisation that was fighting for Algeria's independence from France and had been accused of carrying out attacks on Paris police that left a dozen dead.It was intended to be a peaceful demonstration, but Maurice Papon, the Paris police chief, ordered his officers to stamp out the protests. As the Algerians gathered, the police acted swiftly and brutally, firing on protesters and arresting an estimated 11,500 who were herded on to buses and taken to makeshift detention centres where many claimed they were beaten and held for days without food.Claims that officers had beaten protesters and dumped them into the Seine appeared to be confirmed when bodies were washed up on the banks of the river.Though nobody could have foreseen the extent of the violence, tensions between the Paris police and the city's Algerian community had been building up after the curfew was introduced in response to the police deaths.The daily newspaper France-Soir said: \"Fifty years on and a wall of silence exists around these events. The Algerians of France would today like France to recognise its responsibility.\"Papon was awarded the L\u00e9gion d'Honneur by President Charles de Gaulle the same year as the Algerian killings, and went on to hold a number of senior official posts.In 1981 details emerged of his part in the deportation between 1942 and 1944 of 1,690 Jews from Bordeaux, where he was secretary of police, , but it was not until 1998 that he was convicted of crimes against humanity and stripped of his decorations and titles.The Algerian war, which started in 1954, ended in Algeria's independence from France in 1962.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Algeria", "Africa", "Maurice Papon", "War crimes", "Law"], "title": "France remembers Algerian massacre 50 years on"},{"date": "2011-12-22T22:11:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "10.09pm: Time to wind things up for the day. Many thanks for reading, and to those who commented. Goodnight, and very best Christmas wishes.9.42pm: We have a late breaking credit rating downgrade (a real one, this time). Slovenia has been cut by one notch by Moody's, from Aa3 to A1 (so from the 4th to 5th highest rating).Moody's also left Slovenia on a negative outlook, suggesting the rating could be cut further.The agency blamed the eurozone debt crisis for the deteriorating funding conditions faced by the Slovenian government. It added that the country's banks are being rocked by the crisis, making it harder for them to access funding.9.38pm: Energy and climate change secretary Chris Huhne has weighed into the issue of Britain's place in Europe, warning that the UK must not drift away from the EU in the aftermath of David Cameron's treaty veto.In an interview in tomorrow's Independent, the pro-European Liberal Democrat minister argued that the UK could become \"semi-detached\" if Tory eurosceptics are allowed to dictate government policy. That would leave Britain unable to influence European policy at a crucial time. Huhne said that:A lot of the Conservative right pine for some semi-detached status where we would be like Norway or Switzerland - enjoying the benefits of the single market without being a members of the EU.So France and Britain may be friends again, but there's less cordiality in the coalition government.9.05pm: The Dow Jones industrial average just closed for the day, up 63 points at 12,170. Hardly a major rally, but the chatter on Wall Street is that the US economy may enter 2012 in better shape than feared. The key factor is whether American consumers keep spending this Christmas.As Peter Boockvar, equity strategist at Miller Tabak, said:We'll soon see if the rise off the summer low in confidence translates into a good gain in holiday sales. 8.32pm: Back in the land of hard facts, Hungary has refused to cave in to pressure from the European Union over changes to its Central Bank (see here for more info).Prime minister Viktor Orban went on national TV tonight to announce that he had rejected a request from EC commissioner Jose Manuel Barroso to abandon legislation shaking up the Bank of Hungary. Orban said:I told him there was no possibility to delay...as our constitution will take effect on January 1st.This matters because Hungary is already seeking more help from the international financial community, but its shake-up of its central bank (seen as a takeover attempt by the bank's own governor) caused a breakdown in negotiations last week.Orban could be playing with fire.....8.04pm: Update: A little embarrassingly, the reports of S&P handing Goldman Sachs a gift-wrapped downgrade don't appear to be true (see deleted line below). S&P is insisting that it's made no such move. As you were!The rating agencies clearly haven't clocked off for Christmas -- Standard & Poor's just cut Goldman Sach's credit rating from AA- to A+.7.53pm: Lorenzo Bini Smaghi, the Italian economist who is stepping down from the European Central Bank, has given a fascinating interview to the Financial Times.In it, Bin Smaghi suggests that the ECB could abandon its opposition to quantitative easing -- creating new money to buy up huge quantities of eurozone sovereign debt.This 'big bazooka' option has been consistently ruled out, but Bin Smaghi reckons the ECB may have to change course. As he put it:I do not understand the quasi-religious discussions about quantitative easing.......if conditions changed \u2026 I would see no reason why such an instrument, tailor-made for the specific characteristics of the euro area, should not be used.One reason is that Ms Merkel of Berlin might lose her rag, as QE's inflationary impact is hugely unpopular in Germany. Bin Smaghi, though, is somewhat scathing about the behaviour of certain European leaders since the crisis began. He said policymakers were wrong to \"hide behind lawyers to avoid taking action\".The full interview is here on the FT's web site.Bin Smaghi is quitting the ECB following the arrival of his compatriat Mario Draghi, following concerns that the committee would otherwise be too dominated by Italians.7.17pm: It appears that Sir Mervyn King was on rib-tickling form at his press conference in Frankfurt this afternoon.Julia Werdigier, New York Times reporter, has the details:@jwerdigier Mervyn King just wished everyone at the press conference a merry christmas and a \"systemically stable 2012\" #centralbankhumorSpeaking of the festive period, the bad news is that the cost of Christmas dinner has jumped by an inflation-busting 7.5% this year. The cost of coffee, red wine and gammon have all risen, but the biggest jump is in the cost of the humble cream cracker \u2013 up 51% since December last year from 55p to 83p.7.01pm: Sir Mervyn King and the rest of the European Systemic Risk Board may not have discussed the possible break-up of the eurozone today (see 4.50pm), but the issue isnt' going away.Capital Economics warned this evening that the future of the eurozone is the single biggest factor that will affect the global economy in 2012. It is adamant that one or more country will quit the euro in the next 12 motnhs, with Greece the obvious front-runner.In a research note tonight, Capital Economics told clients that:Just how US banks cope with the euro-zone crisis, which we believe will involve the departure of at least one nation from the currency union next year, could make or break the US economy in 2012.With a presidential election due in 11 months time, America's economy will come under more scrutiny than ever next year. Fitch's warning that the US AAA credit rating could be cut has created added pressure.6.20pm: As the eurozone crisis slides gently towards the end of the year, the signs in the bond market are not encouraging.Italian debt has fallen in value today, as the brief optimism generated by yesterday's huge ECB loan operation peters out. This has pushed the yield on Italy's 10-year bonds back up to 6.9% this evening, up from 6.7% last night.Spanish debt is also being hit, pushing its yield up to 5.4%. As Niels From, analyst at Nordea, put it to Reuters:What happened yesterday is not a silver bullet to the crisis but it is too soon to see the impact yet.5.28pm: A Chinese power company took control of part of Portuguese energy company EDP today, as the country's sale of various state assets got underway.In a sign of the changing power in the world economy, China's Three Gorges Corp's offer of \u20ac2.69bn for the Portuguese government's 21% stake in EDP-Energias de Portugal SA was accepted.This is thought to be the biggest ever deal in which a mainland Chinese firm has bought a stake in a southern European company. It comes after Europe has repeatedly lobbied the Beijing government to help with the eurozone debt crisis.Analysts believe Three Gorges is keen to take advantage of EDP's assets in Brazil -- like China, an emerging superpower.4.50pm: More details of Sir Mervyn King's press conference this afternoon (see last post). King said that the European Systemic Risk Board \"have not discussed the possibility of a country leaving the eurozone\". King also sent a chilling warning to the financial sector, saying:If any banker thinks in future that they are too big to fail, then they are very much mistaken.4.28pm: A grim warning from Sir Mervyn King, Bank of England governor -- \"the warning lights are flashing red\" across the Eurozone.In his role as the head of the European Systemic Risk Board (ESRB), King said that the situation in Europe has worsened in the last three months (no argument there), with the real economy now suffering.Speaking after the ESRB held its quarterly meeting in Frankfurt, King said:The overal situation has worsened as a result of the intensification and negative interlinkages between the sovereign risks and uncertainty about the resilience of the financial system and on the account of deteriorating growth prospects.European bond markets continue to be impaired.More as we get it.4.06pm: In the stock markets, traders are doing what they can to end the year in good spirits. But it's a struggle. The FTSE 100 is up 58 points at 5447, while in New York the Dow has risen by a mere 28 points to 12,136.Volumes are pretty light, as investors knock off for Christmas (tomorrow is a half-day session in the City). Brenda Kelly, market analyst at CMC Markets, said there was a \"much more buoyant mood across the board\".There had been fears that the downward revision to US GDP for the third quarter of 2011 might spook the markets. But no. As Kelly explained:The downward revision in growth to 1.8% from 2.0% for U.S. GDP for the third quarter was shrugged off as something to be consigned to the history books.3.47pm: Relations between the European Union and Hungary hit a new low today.The European Central Bank warned this afternoon that a draft law before Hungary's parliament would undermine the independence of its central bank. In a rare move, the ECB publicly criticised Prime Minister Viktor Orban's government for trying to take control of the National Bank of Hungary.The ECB suggested that the country was acting unlawfully by changing the legal framework of its central bank. Orban's attempt to increase the number of deputy directors and members of the bank's monetary council is also seen as an attempt to undermine its governor.The move came a day after S&P downgraded Hungary to Junk over the same issue. Yesterday Hungary accused S&P of a deliberate attempt to undermine the European Union. Hard to accused the ECB of the same crime...3.11pm: Britain and France may be divided by language and the English Channel, but the two countries have something in common -- they're extremely worried about their economies.A survey fo 24 countries by Ipsos Mori survey found that the French are the most pessimistic about the future, with just 7% describing the French economy as \"good\" and a mere 2% saying they were optimistic about the next six month.The Uk fared little better, with 10% of people describing their economy as 'good', and 9% believing it will improve by the middle of 2012.With France heading into a recession and the UK likely to post little growth over the next six months, it's hard to argue with the public view.Germans, though, are much cheerier -- with 64% believing their economy is currently good, and 15% saying their country will be stronger in six months.The Americans are also feeling rosier, with 20% of people believe their economy will improve in the next six months. Bobby Duffy, managing director at Ipsos MORI, said:Even within Europe, which does face real dangers in the coming months, there is a stark difference between high confidence countries (like Sweden and Germany) and low confidence countries (like the UK and France).The UK ends the year much as it started - bumping along the bottom of the international confidence table.2.45pm: Afternoon all. Mario Monti has just received an early Christmas present -- the Italian Senate has officially approved his \u20ac33bn austerity plan.Monti had made the issue a 'vote of confidence', so failure to appove the programme would have plunged Italy into more political chaos.Many ordinary Italians may not share Monti's relief. The package aims to balance Italy's budget by 2013, in an effort to reassure the financial markets that the country can repay its debts. Unions fear that the burden will fall heavily on the poorest in Italian society.The programme includes higher VAT rates, a new local housing tax, cuts to health spending, an increase in the state pension age to 66, and a higher retirement age.Monti is also gunning for Italy's tax evaders by outlawing cash transactions above \u20ac1,000.2.30pm: I am handing over to my esteemed colleague Graeme Wearden. Thankyou all for your great comments and Happy Christmas!2.24pm: Travel chaos looms for many people heading to European destinations this Christmas. AP reports:Strikes to protest austerity measures paralysed ground traffic in Belgium and hit Christmas travelers in several nations across Europe, promising days of headaches through the holidays. Workers were walking off the job to show their ire at budget-slashing measures by their governments to tackle debt and high deficits, and officials were scrambling to try to mitigate delays and cancellations.Eurostar and Thalys idled part of their popular service through Brussels as Belgian transport workers walked off the job. In France, a strike by airport security personnel stretched into its seventh day, and in London, football club Arsenal postponed its day-after-Christmas game against Wolverhampton Wanderers by 24 hours because of a planned public transport strike on the UK's Boxing Day holiday.The French government, anxious to avoid angering voters ahead of next spring's presidential election, was looking at options on Thursday to get police to replace security personnel and make sure Christmas Sunday is as undisturbed as possible.\"The issue is to have airplanes take off so that the French people who have had a tough autumn and are feeling the crisis can get to their families and not be blocked at airports,\" Transport Minister Nathalie Koscusko-Morizet said on France Info.In Greece, train workers planned a five-hour work stoppage from noon Thursday, and in Spain more airline and transport action is expected next week.The major unions in Belgium were protesting against pension reform being pushed through Parliament for early next year that would require people to wait two years longer before early retirement. All but one of Belgium's major airports were operating close to normal, but intermittent road blocks by strikers worsened road delays around the capital. The strike also affected postal services, schools and hospitals.At the Brussels South train station, the tracks of the popular Eurostar and Thalys trains linking London and Paris through Brussels with Amsterdam and Germany, remained empty.\"Eurostar and other onward connecting rail services will not be able to operate to or from Brussels during this period,\" the rail company said of the 24-hour strike. Simply waiting a day would be tough for holiday travelers since the trains are often fully booked for days on end. All local lines were canceled on Thursday, too, keeping many workers home.In Paris, the airport security personnel strike continued but delays were shortening and no flight cancellations were recorded at De Gaulle, Paris' busiest airport Wednesday.Unions representing workers who conduct patdowns on travellers and operate the bag-screening machines launched the walkout a week ago to demand negotiations over an increase in pay. It was timed for maximum effect during the holiday getaway season.2.04pm: David Semmens, US economist at Standard Chartered Bank, has crunched the latest US numbers.GDP comes in a bit lower than the market was looking for at 1.8% q/q, against 2.0% expected. The composition is less favourable with the consumer adding 1.24 percentage points against the 1.63ppt previously forecast, while inventories drag less (-1.35ppt against -1.55ppt) previously forecast and net exports add 0.43ppt against 0.49ppt previously stated. The greater inventory build-up leaves less potential additions going forward, whereas the slow-down in net exports it is driven by an increase in activity, but with just more imports (-0.21ppt against -0.09ppt prior) than export (0.64ppt against 0.59ppt prior) growth. While the downward revision to consumption should help keep the consumer's woes in mind, we are more concerned that this comparatively slow increase came in a quarter when the US consumer cut their savings rate from 5.0% to 3.3%. We still maintain that the consumer will stay supportive for growth, especially as hiring improves albeit modestly in 2012, but the continuation of the deleveraging process should keep any optimism in check.What is more comforting is the drop in initial jobless claims to 364k against 380k expected, this is the lowest since April 2008. This continues to reinforce our opinion that the labour market is on the mend, but there is still a significant pick up in hiring needed to make any dent in the unemployment rate. We continue to expect labour demand to stay around the level to keep unemployment relatively constant ~150k during 2012 but there is still plenty of scope for upgrading those working part-time closer to full time.1.55pm: Our Wall Street correspondent Dominic Rushe looks ahead to the market open:It looks like the US stock markets are going to get off to a good start. The Dow Jones Industrial Average futures are up 57 points, or 0.5%, ahead of the market's opening bell. The Dow closed up four points on Wednesday, and is up 341 points, or 2.9%, in two sessions.Standard & Poor's 500-stock index futures and Nasdaq futures are also up. Futures contracts don't always work as indicators of which way the wind is blowing but up is better than down.1.44pm: There's no escaping death and taxes, particularly in Greece. Hearse owners became the latest professional group to join anti-austerity protests today, taking part in a protest drive through the centre of the country's two main cities.They are worried that a sharp rise in annual road taxes could put them out of business. The protesters say their cars have been reclassified as private instead of business vehicles, which means they will pay up to six times more in road tax by the end of next week for 2012. Hearse drivers say their vehicles will now be taxed at the same rate as luxury cars, with higher import duties and annual fees.\"How can you call a hearse a regular car? Our passengers are deceased,\" protester Aris Karvounidis, a member of the Funeral Services Association of Northern Greece, told AP.In Thessaloniki, Greece's second largest city, protesters drove their (empty) vehicles which were empty from the main cemetery to a regional government building, while colleagues in Athens slowed traffic as they passed parliament.Desperate to rein in overspending, Greece's government has imposed a punishing regime of emergency taxes on pensioners, homeowners and salaried workers, while sweeping away dozens of welfare benefits and tax exemptions.Some 1,580 demonstrations hav been held in Athens this year, as workers for the government and struggling private companies saw their wages slashed, and decades-old protective labour laws were scrapped.The country has been surviving on rescue loans from eurozone countries and the International Monetary Fund for the past 19 months, pushed to the brink of bankruptcy by its massive national debt and high borrowing rates.1.30pm: Some mixed figures out from the US. Jobless claims were better than expected, falling to the lowest since April 2008 which suggests the recovery in the labour market - and the wider economy - is gathering steam.New claims for unemployment benefits dropped 4,000 to a seasonally adjusted 364,000, the Labor Department said. Economists at Goldman Sachs said this week that weekly claims below 435,000 pointed to net monthly gains in jobs.But economic growth in the third quarter was revised lower to an annualised rate of 1.8% from 2%, wrongfooting Wall Street economists who had expected no changes.1.23pm: Time for a lunchtime round-up. \u2022 France's foreign minister says Sarkozy's snide comments about the UK went further than he wished.\u2022 UK third-quarter growth was revised higher \u2013 but the ONS also said the economy stalled in Q2\u2022 Stock markets are bouncing back with the FTSE 100 up 65 points (1.2%) to 5,454 at 1.20pm.\u2022 A 20% jump in sales at John Lewis has been welcomed as sign of \"genuine hope\" for retailers. \u2022 And, a tiny town in Spain found itself richer by \u20ac720m after winning nation's El Gordo lottery12.55pm: Entente Cordiale. Alain Jupp\u00e9, France's foreign minister, has called time on the war of words between UK and France. Jupp\u00e9 said recent comments by Nicolas Sarkozy (who is said to have described David Cameron as a \"stubborn child\") and Jean-Pierre Jouyet, head of France's financial regulator (who said the UK had \"stupidest Right in the world\") went \"further than their authors wished\". There is not an ounce of doubt that Franco-British relations, that will become excellent once again as we have too much in common to allow them to deteriorate. I cannot imagine that we will push Britain out of the European Union.We will not allow the European Union to unravel. The explosion of the euro would be the end of the EU.It would spell catastrophe that could end up for the worst.12.32pm: Some good news. John Lewis sales between Sunday and yesterday are up 20.7% compared to the same period last year. It looks like John Lewis's boss, Andy Street, can say 'I told you so' to the City analysts who had cast doubt on his optimistic Christmas expectations. (But it was quite snowy last year, which makes comparisons a little tricky)David Barford, JL's director selling operations, says:In-store sales have benefitted from the festive atmosphere created by partners (employees), while online sales soared in the run up to the cut off deadline for delivery yesterday, albeit when compared with snowy conditions last year. Here are some more details from Reuters: The 20.7 percent figure is a gross number, inclusive of VAT sales tax and new space.Analysts estimate the underlying figure to be about 13.7 percent, excluding VAT and new space.On Sunday John Lewis reported gross sales for the week to Dec. 17 up 10.6 percent to 133.1 million pounds ($208.49 million), the highest weekly level in the company's history.With Britons' disposable incomes being squeezed by rising prices, muted wages growth and government austerity measures, most retailers are nervous about spending in the key Christmas period and discounting is rife.John Lewis has, however, been outperforming rivals for over a year. It will next update on trading on Jan. 4.Howard Archer, chief UK economist at IHS Global Insight, said John Lewis's figures provide \"genuine hope\" for retailers. The latest John Lewis half-weekly sales show welcome substantial improvement, with sales up 20.7% year-on-year in the four days trading to Wednesday 21 December. Of course, it needs to be borne in mind that sales were affected a year ago by bad weather, and that there are four more John Lewis stores trading than a year ago and that prices are significantly higher. Nevertheless, it still looks a decent performanceGiven that John Lewis is often seen as a bellwether for the state of the high street, the marked increase in sales provides genuine hope for retailers that many consumers have left much of their Christmas shopping very late \u2013 probably in the hope that struggling retailers will step up their promotions and discounting.12.26pm: Pope Benedict XVI has, once again, turned his attention to the eurozone crisis suring a speech in Rome. As this year draws to a close, Europe is undergoing an economic and financial crisis, which is ultimately based on the ethical crisis looming over the Old Continent. Even if such values as solidarity, commitment to one's neighbour and responsibility towards the poor and suffering are largely uncontroversial, still the motivation is often lacking for individuals and large sectors of society to practise renunciation and make sacrifices. Perception and will do not necessarily go hand in hand. 11.52am: Some headlines coming out of Italy have popped up on Reuters. New prime minister Mario Monti said Italy will be able to face the eurozone crisis with its head held high after passing his austerity budget. He acknowledged that the government will face the enormous task of stimulating growth after the budget has been passed. Labour market reform will require more dialogue with unions and employers. He also called on Italians to buy government bonds.11.40am: Results just in from Spain's El Gordo, the world's biggest Christmas lottery, which has brought some Christmas cheer to a small town in the north east. For those who lost out, there is the 'El Ni\u00f1o' lottery on 6 January.PA reports:A tiny town of 2,000 in cash-strapped Spain found itself richer by \u20ac720m Thursday after scooping the top prize in the nation's famed Christmas lottery. The top prize dubbed \"El Gordo\" (The Fat One) was split among the holders of tickets bearing the number 58268. The number appeared on 1,800 tickets, giving winners 400,000 for their 20 ticket.The state lottery agency said all 1,800 tickets with that number were sold in the town of Granen, located in the arid and barren northeastern Los Monegros area.Spain is struggling to emerge from a near two-year recession that has left it with a eurozone-high 21.5% unemployment rate.The lottery aims for a share-the-wealth system, rather than a single jackpot, and thousands of numbers yield at least some kind of return. Lots of people chip in together and buy shares of several or many tickets, meaning it is common for multiple prizes to go to the same town. Other lotteries have larger individual top prizes but El Gordo is ranked as the world's richest for the total sum paid out.The winning number was picked and announced by pupils of Madrid's Saint Ildefonso School in a nationally televised draw.Since it began in 1812, the 22 December lottery has become a favorite holiday tradition. This year, it sold an estimated 2.7 billion in tickets and the state lottery agency estimated per-capita spending of about 70.Spain holds another big lottery 6 January to mark the Feast of the Epiphany. It is known as 'El Ni\u00f1o' (The Child), in reference to the baby Jesus.11.30am: A key confidence vote for Italy's new leader Mario Monti is scheduled for this afternoon. Tom Kington reports from Rome:Mario Monti's austerity budget is expected to pass its final obstacle today \u2013 a confidence vote in the Senate \u2013 with the results of voting due around 3pm Rome time.Monti himself will address the senate before the vote, braving senators from the Northern League party who yesterday barracked a government undersecretary.The government is promising measures in the new year to liberalise the economy to supplement the budget, which is heavy on tax hikes and spending cuts, but welfare minister Elsa Fornera already appears to be have backtracked on plans to making firing staff easier.Pierluigi Bersani, the head of centre-left Democratic Party, one of the key backers of the technocrat Monti government, said yesterday, \"It is absurd to think you can create jobs by firing people.\"Former prime minister Silvio Berlusconi indicated his concerns about the budget by claiming a planned limit on cash purchases to cut down on tax dodging would prevent Italian men shopping behind their wives' backs. While Italy's parties are still happy to step back while Monti undertakes vote losing cuts, they know their backing for him may ultimately lose them votes too, so the longer Monti puts off the wholesale reforms of the economy the EU is demanding, the more he risks a revolt in parliament. 11.16am: A spate of bombings in Baghdad has pushed oil prices higher. Brent crude climbed to more than $108 a barrel as the violence sparked fears of further disruption to Middle East oil supplies.David Wech, head of research at consultancy JBC Energy in Vienna, told Reuters:Geopolitical developments are underpinning oil. There is clearly a risk premium in the market.11.13am: Bad news for meat eaters and wine lovers. The Office for National Statistics says the average cost of a Christmas dinner has gone up this year, with the price of some items jumping by as much as 50% since last Christmas. Turkey, wine, chicken and cheese have all gone up in price since last Christmas. Cream crackers have increased the most, by 50%. Only some vegetables (carrots and potatoes) have become cheaper.10.48am: Chris Beauchamp, market analyst at IG Index, has looked at today's movements.In mid-morning trade the FTSE 100 has managed to push higher as the wind-down to Christmas begins in earnest.London has succeeded in shrugging off a weak overnight performance in Asia, as traders take heart from the relative recovery of Wall Street last night. Bank shares are at the forefront this morning, as financial stocks benefit from the ECB's largesse yesterday, while BA's parent company International Airlines is on the ascent on news that it has bought British Midland from Lufthansa. GDP figures on the UK provided little in the way of excitement, with third-quarter growth lifted by 0.1% to 0.6%. Any nascent optimism generated by this was quickly demolished by a downward revision to the second quarter's figure, which was cut from the Scrooge-like 0.1% growth to no growth at all.Trading this afternoon might get a bit more interesting, given the avalanche of US data out later. On the slate today is a revision to the US' third-quarter GDP reading, the usual weekly jobless claims and the final December reading from the Michigan confidence index. US futures have pushed on, with the Dow expected to start around 50 points higher today, the last full day of trading before Christmas.10.10am: Stock markets have bounced back today: the FTSE is up more than 60 points at 5451, a 1.1% rise, while Germany's Dax has climbed 84 points, or 1.5%, and France's CAC has added nearly 43 points, or 1.4%.On bond markets, the yield, or interest rate, on Spanish ten-year bonds has risen to 5.37% while the Italian yield has slipped to 6.79%.10.00am: Let's turn to Belgium, where aparticularly well-timed 24-hour pre-Christmas public sector strike to protest pension reform has hit rail and bus traffic across the country, but major airports were operating close to normal.AP reports:Thursday's rush-hour train traffic was dense but not as chaotic as expected as many people decided to take a day off or work from home. Intermittent road blocks by strikers worsened delays around the capital. The strike major trade union strike also affected postal services, schools and hospitals.The action was taken after the government confirmed plans to make people wait two more years before they can take early retirement, and other measures to get a handle on the pensions budget.The reforms are part of a slate of austerity measures approved by prime minister Elio Di Rupo's coalition to get Belgium out of the economic crisis.9.52am: Some instant reaction to the GDP data from James Knightley at ING The revisions largely related to investment spending while the income breakdown showed a sharp upward revision to industrial production. However, this all relates to data that is more than three months old and the outlook fir growth is darkening. The Eurozone sovereign debt crisis is hurting business confidence, making firms reluctant to both hire and invest. Consumer confidence also remains weak given rising job insecurity and negative real wage growth. Meanwhile fiscal austerity is dampening government spending and the deteriorating Eurozone economy is a massive threat to exports. Consequently, a return to recession is looking increasingly likely.And here is a pretty gloomy view from Vicky Redwood, UK economist at Capital Economics. The big picture is that the [UK] economy has ended the year on a pretty weak note. We are forecasting a relatively mild recession, involving a 0.5% contraction in GDP. However, clearly a much more severe downturn than this is possible. Our forecasts are based on the assumption that the eurozone breaks up, but in a limited and fairly orderly fashion. A more chaotic break-up, perhaps involving a renewed seizing-up of the interbank lending market, could see a drop in UK output more akin to the 7% contraction seen during the 2008/09 recession.9.38am: More detail on the GDP numbers. Services grew by 0.7%, revised higher from 0.6%, while construction was revised even more strongly to 0.3% growth from a 0.2% contraction. Industrial production was revised down to 0.2% growth from 0.4%, though.We are also saving more. The household saving ratio climbed to 6.6%, the highest since the end of last year. The ONS also said that Britain's current account deficit hit a record high of \u00a315.2bn, from \u00a37.4bn in the second quarter. This is equivalent to 4% of GDP and the biggest since quarterly records began in 1955.9.30am: The UK economy grew faster than originally thought in the third quarter, thanks to stronger services and construction output. The Office for National Statistics said GDP was up 0.6% on the quarter, rather than the previously estimated 0.5%.This comes as a surprise to City economists who had expected no revision. However, the economy did not grow at all in the second quarter - the figure was revised lower from 0.1% growth - and economists believe growth slowed down sharply towards the end of the year and into 2012.9.16am: In Spain, the countdown has begun for the world's biggest Christmas lottery - 'El Gordo' (the Fat One). Cash-strapped Spaniards have been queuing up in the streets to buy tickets in the hope of becoming millionaires overnight.There are 180 first prizes of \u20ac4m each - the biggest payout ever - and another 180 second prizes worth \u20ac1.25m each, as well as 322,920 prizes of \u20ac1,000 each. There are also thousands of small value prizes known as 'Pedrea' (shower of stones). In total, the lottery will pay out \u20ac2.5bn in today's draw, in 2.75m individual cash prizes. The results are expected to be announced around 4pm CET (3pm GMT).The first El Gordo took place way back in 1812 and the El Gordo Navidad hasn't changed much since then. This lottery boasts the largest prize pot in the world and is held this year for the second time at the Palacio de Congresos de Madrid. It is open to the public, with limited seating, and is televised nationwide, bringing the country to a standstill during the theatrical draw which is expected to last three to four hours.The average Spaniard is said to have spent more than \u20ac60 on lottery tickets. Whole villages club together to buy tickets. The cost of a ticket is \u20ac200 but because this is too pricey for many people tickets are divided into 10 fractions called \"d\u00e9cimos\". Each d\u00e9cimo is worth \u20ac20 and will win a tenth of the prize should the ticket be drawn.\"I am spending more than last year, 100 euros, and I am sharing the tickets with my friends and family,\" AFP quoted a 48-year-old office worker, Victoria, as saying. \"Some of them are having a very tough time financially and I want us to win.\"The country as a whole stands to benefit: El Gordo is expected to bring a profit of \u20ac1bn to the treasury coffers.8.33am: so what is happening today? The agenda:\u2022 UK final GDP figures for third quarter: expected to be unrevised at 0.5%\u2022 US final GDP figures for third quarter: forecast to be unrevised at 0.2% annualised rate\u2022 Italian confidence vote for new PM Mario Monti in the Italian Senate on the latest austerity budget this afternoon\u2022 El Gordo - Spanish Christmas lottery result expected at 3pm London time8.13am: As expected, stock markets have opened higher. The FTSE is trading more than 40 points higher at 5432, an 0.8% gain. Germany's Dax and France's CAC are both up 1.5%.8.11am: In Greece, PSI talks are on the verge of collapse as Madrid-based hedge fund Vega threatens to sue Greece for excessive haircut. Vega wrote to fellow investors to say it would consider suing if Greece insisted on writedowns of more than half the net present value of the debt. More in this FT story.Europe's financial crisis is even threatening the stability of Egypt's financial system, credit ratings agency Moody's warned yesterday as it hit the country with a one-notch downgrade (from B1 to B2 - deep into 'junk' territory and just five notches from Default).8.01am: Royal Bank of Scotland's chairman is stirring things up with comments that he is expecting a \"small country\" to leave the euro zone, which would put more strain on the world's banking system.Philip Hampton told Sky News in a prerecorded programme scheduled to be broadcast today:I think it is likely that one country, a small country, will drop out. It could be any of them because I think that some of these things will be driven by political events as much as by economic circumstances and social unrest, and all of those sorts of things. But I think there is a very good chance that one country will fall out.Hampton said the British banking system had not been fixed yet, although the sector was \"very much on the mend\".7.28am: Good morning. Welcome back to our rolling coverage of the world economy and the eurozone debt crisis. Europe's main stock markets are set to open slightly higher, even though the European Central Bank's lending to banks yesterday failed to ease worries over the debt crisis. And ratings agency Fitch warned last night that it may downgrade America's triple-A credit rating, pointing to its rising debt burden. Meanwhile, Hungary saw its credit rating slashed to Junk status, by Standard & Poor's. Final GDP figures for the third quarter from the UK and the US, due at 9.30am and 1.30pm London time respectively, could shed more light on the health of the British and American economies. Economists don't expect any revisions to the main numbers (0.5% quarterly growth for the UK and 2% annualised growth in the US) but the detail could be interesting.Financial spreadbetters expect London's FTSE 100 index to open around 10 points higher, or up 0.2%, Frankfurt's DAX to open 10 points higher, or 0.2%, and Paris' CAC to open 8 points higher, up 0.3%.Asian stocks slipped, with the Nikkei in Tokyo falling 0.8% and Hong Kong's Hang Seng down 0.3%.Japan cut its forecast for economic growth to 2.2% from 2.7% to 2.9% for the fiscal year starting in April. The government expects market turbulence from Europe's debt crisis to subside next year and exports to recover as overseas economies pick up, a Cabinet Office official explained. For the current year ending in March, Japan's government slashed its forecast to a 0.1% contraction from the 0.5% growth predicted previously, reflecting the impact of the earthquake and tsunami in March.European banks snapped up almost \u20ac500bn (\u00a3417bn) in cheap three-year loans from the ECB yesterday, easing credit crunch worries but fuelling fears over the health of financial institutions and the role of the central bank in fighting the crisis.Michael Hewson, market analyst at CMC Markets, said:Yesterday's version of QE by the back door by the ECB saw the single currency gain initially before the realisation set in that the high take-up of 523 banks suggested that the European Banking system had been on the verge of a financial aneurism as banks struggle to raise funds. While it may buy vulnerable banks some time, it is certainly no solution to the wider problem of slow or no growth. Furthermore the failure to deal with the failing banks also puts the good banks under pressure, as there is no discernible way to distinguish them. Italian and Spanish bond yields also continued to rise despite the free money, suggesting that the banks were resisting the temptation to implement the bond carry trade that the cheap finance presented it with.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Stock markets", "Euro", "Euro", "Politics"], "title": "Eurozone crisis live: France calls time on Anglo-Franco bickering  "},{"date": "2012-03-20T22:21:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "As he was held in prison on Devil's Island, the only prayers that Alfred Dreyfus offered up were those to the president of the republic. Piers Paul Read points out in his new account of the most infamous miscarriage of French justice that the ideals that sustained the Jewish army officer falsely accused of espionage were those of republican France. Read quotes from one of the letters Dreyfus wrote from his Caribbean gulag to his wife Lucie: \"However atrocious may have been the tortures inflicted on me \u2026 I have never forgotten that, far above men, far above their passions, far above their errors, is our country. It is she who will be my final judge.\"A similar sentiment is re-emerging in a France stunned by the Toulouse shootings. And it will pour out on to Paris's streets on Saturday when the French \u2013 Jews and Muslims and everyone else \u2013 will march in their thousands together. Their message stands repetition: the republic will come together in the face of such an assault on its minorities. Until the massive manhunt tracks down its quarry, it is dangerous to speculate on motives. They may have no connection with the 17th Parachute regiment of Montauban, three of whose members were filmed in 2008 making Nazi salutes.We simply do not know whether the shootings are connected to the anniversary of the end of the Algerian war, or whether France is on the brink of its own Oslo moment, when Anders Behring Breivik massacred 77 people at a Social Democrat summer camp last year.Campaigning has been suspended, but the shooting has already sent tremors through France's presidential election. The first to say what was on everyone's mind was not the Socialist challenger Fran\u00e7ois Hollande but the centrist Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou. He said the killings were the product of a sick society, with politicians who pointed the finger and inflamed passions. No prize for guessing whom he was talking about. Nicolas Sarkozy's lurch to the right has included such claims as there being too many immigrants in France, and that the French were secretly ingesting halal meat. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the foreign minister, fought back by declaring that Bayrou's statement was ignoble. But it is must already be clear this part of the incumbent's re-election campaign is dead. Currying votes from the extreme right is a two-edged sword, and Sarkozy could be about to feel its blade. The minister who has been most shamelessly xenophobic, Claude Gu\u00e9ant, is now the man in charge of of the manhunt.This was not the election campaign \u2013 personalised, divisive, vituperative \u2013 that France wanted or needed. France's main concern, like Britain's, is jobs. Its problem, like ours, is curbing the super-rich not immigrants. Mr Sarkozy may now try to move to the centre ground. But let us hope he does not fool too many voters.", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "Gun crime", "France", "World news"], "title": "France: republican ideals | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-20T22:21:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "As he was held in prison on Devil's Island, the only prayers that Alfred Dreyfus offered up were those to the president of the republic. Piers Paul Read points out in his new account of the most infamous miscarriage of French justice that the ideals that sustained the Jewish army officer falsely accused of espionage were those of republican France. Read quotes from one of the letters Dreyfus wrote from his Caribbean gulag to his wife Lucie: \"However atrocious may have been the tortures inflicted on me \u2026 I have never forgotten that, far above men, far above their passions, far above their errors, is our country. It is she who will be my final judge.\"A similar sentiment is re-emerging in a France stunned by the Toulouse shootings. And it will pour out on to Paris's streets on Saturday when the French \u2013 Jews and Muslims and everyone else \u2013 will march in their thousands together. Their message stands repetition: the republic will come together in the face of such an assault on its minorities. Until the massive manhunt tracks down its quarry, it is dangerous to speculate on motives. They may have no connection with the 17th Parachute regiment of Montauban, three of whose members were filmed in 2008 making Nazi salutes.We simply do not know whether the shootings are connected to the anniversary of the end of the Algerian war, or whether France is on the brink of its own Oslo moment, when Anders Behring Breivik massacred 77 people at a Social Democrat summer camp last year.Campaigning has been suspended, but the shooting has already sent tremors through France's presidential election. The first to say what was on everyone's mind was not the Socialist challenger Fran\u00e7ois Hollande but the centrist Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou. He said the killings were the product of a sick society, with politicians who pointed the finger and inflamed passions. No prize for guessing whom he was talking about. Nicolas Sarkozy's lurch to the right has included such claims as there being too many immigrants in France, and that the French were secretly ingesting halal meat. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the foreign minister, fought back by declaring that Bayrou's statement was ignoble. But it is must already be clear this part of the incumbent's re-election campaign is dead. Currying votes from the extreme right is a two-edged sword, and Sarkozy could be about to feel its blade. The minister who has been most shamelessly xenophobic, Claude Gu\u00e9ant, is now the man in charge of of the manhunt.This was not the election campaign \u2013 personalised, divisive, vituperative \u2013 that France wanted or needed. France's main concern, like Britain's, is jobs. Its problem, like ours, is curbing the super-rich not immigrants. Mr Sarkozy may now try to move to the centre ground. But let us hope he does not fool too many voters.", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "Gun crime", "France", "World news"], "title": "France: republican ideals | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-15T20:12:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Investigators fear an assassin on a scooter is targeting French soldiers after two were killed and a third seriously injured in a \"ride-by\" shooting, the second attack in less than a week.The three members of a parachute regiment were shot in a busy town centre on Thursday afternoon. Two died on the spot, while the third was reported to be in a critical condition in hospital.The attack followed the murder last weekend of an officer in another parachute regiment, shot in a similar manner by a motorcycle gunman.The soldiers, all in their 20s and wearing uniform, were standing by a cash machine in Montauban, south-west France. Police who sealed off the town centre before investigating said that it was unclear whether the three were withdrawing money, or had left a nearby shop or restaurant and were passing by when they came under a fusilade of shots shortly after 2pm, heard by people nearby. The killer, who was wearing a full-face helmet, then rode off on a scooter; more than a dozen spent cartridges were found at the scene.The men were serving in the 17th Parachute Regiment, which has done tours of duty in Afghanistan, Lebanon and the former Yugoslavia, and is based at a barracks very near the attack.President Nicolas Sarkozy, visiting eastern France, said he had sent defence minister G\u00e9rard Longuet to Montauban to direct operations, but could not say more: \"The circumstances are confused and at the current time I cannot give you any explanation.\" Longuet said he was confident investigators would do all they could to ensure the gunman was brought to justice, adding that his thoughts were with the \"families of the dead men and their regiment\".Brigitte Bar\u00e8ges, mayor of Montauban, said that she was \"shocked and outraged\" by \"an assassination that appeared like a true summary execution\". The regiment had \"already paid, sadly, the price of the war in Afghanistan\", she added, having lost four soldiers there.On Sunday in a suburb of Toulouse, 46km south of Montauban, an off-duty member of another regiment was shot in the head at point blank range by a gunman on a scooter. Imad Ibn-Ziaten, 30, a marshall in the 1st Parachute Regiment, was standing next to his Suzuki 650cc motorbike outside a gym and had been wearing his helmet at the time; he was not in uniform.Detectives say that Ziaten had advertised his motorbike for sale and took a call from what appeared to be an interested buyer minutes before he was killed. Ziaten's commanding officer said that he had served with the French army in Ivory Coast, Chad and Gabon.But police hunting the killer or killers in the two cases have said that they have yet to establish a definite link. A police source told journalists: \"Every-one thinks there's a link between the two incidents, but we have to wait for the first results of the inquiry.\"", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Three soldiers shot in France"},{"date": "2012-03-20T22:21:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "As he was held in prison on Devil's Island, the only prayers that Alfred Dreyfus offered up were those to the president of the republic. Piers Paul Read points out in his new account of the most infamous miscarriage of French justice that the ideals that sustained the Jewish army officer falsely accused of espionage were those of republican France. Read quotes from one of the letters Dreyfus wrote from his Caribbean gulag to his wife Lucie: \"However atrocious may have been the tortures inflicted on me \u2026 I have never forgotten that, far above men, far above their passions, far above their errors, is our country. It is she who will be my final judge.\"A similar sentiment is re-emerging in a France stunned by the Toulouse shootings. And it will pour out on to Paris's streets on Saturday when the French \u2013 Jews and Muslims and everyone else \u2013 will march in their thousands together. Their message stands repetition: the republic will come together in the face of such an assault on its minorities. Until the massive manhunt tracks down its quarry, it is dangerous to speculate on motives. They may have no connection with the 17th Parachute regiment of Montauban, three of whose members were filmed in 2008 making Nazi salutes.We simply do not know whether the shootings are connected to the anniversary of the end of the Algerian war, or whether France is on the brink of its own Oslo moment, when Anders Behring Breivik massacred 77 people at a Social Democrat summer camp last year.Campaigning has been suspended, but the shooting has already sent tremors through France's presidential election. The first to say what was on everyone's mind was not the Socialist challenger Fran\u00e7ois Hollande but the centrist Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou. He said the killings were the product of a sick society, with politicians who pointed the finger and inflamed passions. No prize for guessing whom he was talking about. Nicolas Sarkozy's lurch to the right has included such claims as there being too many immigrants in France, and that the French were secretly ingesting halal meat. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the foreign minister, fought back by declaring that Bayrou's statement was ignoble. But it is must already be clear this part of the incumbent's re-election campaign is dead. Currying votes from the extreme right is a two-edged sword, and Sarkozy could be about to feel its blade. The minister who has been most shamelessly xenophobic, Claude Gu\u00e9ant, is now the man in charge of of the manhunt.This was not the election campaign \u2013 personalised, divisive, vituperative \u2013 that France wanted or needed. France's main concern, like Britain's, is jobs. Its problem, like ours, is curbing the super-rich not immigrants. Mr Sarkozy may now try to move to the centre ground. But let us hope he does not fool too many voters.", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "Gun crime", "France", "World news"], "title": "France: republican ideals | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-15T20:12:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Investigators fear an assassin on a scooter is targeting French soldiers after two were killed and a third seriously injured in a \"ride-by\" shooting, the second attack in less than a week.The three members of a parachute regiment were shot in a busy town centre on Thursday afternoon. Two died on the spot, while the third was reported to be in a critical condition in hospital.The attack followed the murder last weekend of an officer in another parachute regiment, shot in a similar manner by a motorcycle gunman.The soldiers, all in their 20s and wearing uniform, were standing by a cash machine in Montauban, south-west France. Police who sealed off the town centre before investigating said that it was unclear whether the three were withdrawing money, or had left a nearby shop or restaurant and were passing by when they came under a fusilade of shots shortly after 2pm, heard by people nearby. The killer, who was wearing a full-face helmet, then rode off on a scooter; more than a dozen spent cartridges were found at the scene.The men were serving in the 17th Parachute Regiment, which has done tours of duty in Afghanistan, Lebanon and the former Yugoslavia, and is based at a barracks very near the attack.President Nicolas Sarkozy, visiting eastern France, said he had sent defence minister G\u00e9rard Longuet to Montauban to direct operations, but could not say more: \"The circumstances are confused and at the current time I cannot give you any explanation.\" Longuet said he was confident investigators would do all they could to ensure the gunman was brought to justice, adding that his thoughts were with the \"families of the dead men and their regiment\".Brigitte Bar\u00e8ges, mayor of Montauban, said that she was \"shocked and outraged\" by \"an assassination that appeared like a true summary execution\". The regiment had \"already paid, sadly, the price of the war in Afghanistan\", she added, having lost four soldiers there.On Sunday in a suburb of Toulouse, 46km south of Montauban, an off-duty member of another regiment was shot in the head at point blank range by a gunman on a scooter. Imad Ibn-Ziaten, 30, a marshall in the 1st Parachute Regiment, was standing next to his Suzuki 650cc motorbike outside a gym and had been wearing his helmet at the time; he was not in uniform.Detectives say that Ziaten had advertised his motorbike for sale and took a call from what appeared to be an interested buyer minutes before he was killed. Ziaten's commanding officer said that he had served with the French army in Ivory Coast, Chad and Gabon.But police hunting the killer or killers in the two cases have said that they have yet to establish a definite link. A police source told journalists: \"Every-one thinks there's a link between the two incidents, but we have to wait for the first results of the inquiry.\"", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Three soldiers shot in France"},{"date": "2012-03-05T10:49:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "Le Colombier is a lovely family-run restaurant away from the city's tourist area. An unassuming front opens on to a rustic, friendly restaurant. They specialise in cassoulet and classics such as magret de canard. After a heavy main course try a refreshing sorbet 'drowning' in champagne. \u2022 14 rue Bayard, +33 5 6162 4005, restaurant-lecolombier.com, three-course menu \u20ac22 alexandrafChez Toinette, MontmartreWe found this warm friendly bistro by accident when walking away from the crowds through the back streets of Montmartre. It has a great atmosphere and reasonably priced, tasty classic dishes (around \u20ac15 for a main course). There's a good, unpretentious selection of wine too. We went around 9pm, when it was quite buzzy, the clientele pretty much all French.\u2022 20 rue Germain Pilon, +33 1 4254 4436, cheztoinette.commissmarple0512Chez Germaine, Palais-BourbonIt's not often you find an excellent bistro in Paris at reasonable prices, but Chez Germaine ticks all the boxes. In the heart of Paris (7th arrondissement), it exudes class with its simple, yet elegant interior, daily set menus and friendly (English-speaking!) waiters. I would recommend a homemade terrine as a starter, followed by pork with lentils. Glorious!\u2022 30 rue Pierre Leroux, +33 1 4273 2834, three-course dinner \u20ac25Mason1Le Basilic, MontmartreTypically we stumble on the best restaurants on the last night of our trips, and invariably they are right under our noses. Such was the case with Le Basilic. It is intimate, atmospheric, inviting and affordable with a three-course set menu for \u20ac23 or the Parisian staples of escargot and duck from the \u00e0 la carte menu. We'd felt ripped off in the majority of Parisian eateries, but Le Basilic restored our faith in French bistros, especially considering its location within a mile of Moulin Rouge and Sacr\u00e9-Coeur. \u2022 33 rue Lepic, +33 1 4606 7843, mains from \u20ac15TonyhardmanChez Janou, MaraisJust behind the place des Vosges on the corner of a street, you come upon a small bistro bursting with colour, ambience and delicious food. You can wait for a table at the bar, which has a fabulous range of Proven\u00e7al wines. Then enjoy a meal starting with tasty olives and moving on to classics such as mussels, steak and duck; somebody at your table has to have the chocolate mousse. This place is quintessentially French, and humming with local chat.\u2022 2 rue Roger Verlomme, +33 1 4272 2841, chezjanou.com, three-course lunch \u20ac14JoDonaldsonLe Bistro au Vieux Ch\u00eaneThis is a small, welcoming French bistro in a side street in the 11th arrondissement, a bit off the tourist track. The menu is short and the food good, and the wine list has something for every pocket.\u2022 7 rue du Dahomey, +33 1 4371 6769, vieuxchene.fr. Two-course dinner \u20ac28, three-course dinner \u20ac33 bananatrussLe Saint Georges, St-Juire-ChampgillonThis is a lovely fine-dining restaurant in a village between Ste-Hermine and Chantonnay. Wonderful service, beautiful food! You need to book in advance as they fill up quickly. \u2022 11 place de la Mairie, +33 2 5127 8691, lesaintgeorges.wordpress.com, seven-course tasting menu \u20ac69 NatashaGSkinnerLa Cigale, NantesA lunchtime visit to La Cigale en route back to the UK lifted our post-vacation spirits. La Cigale dates back to the 1890s andhas breathtaking ornate tiling between wooden panels and gorgeous mosaics. The cigale (grasshopper) can be seen in various poses in the tiles and mosaics. Apparently the cigale plays and eats all summer, a creature of the moment. The ambience of La Cigale coupled with the delicious food \u2013 sea food is a speciality \u2013 encourages you to live in moment.4 place Graslin, +33 2 5184 9494 lacigale.comGoforth12Auberge Des Peintres, Saint-C\u00e9neri-Le-G\u00e9reiThis building dates back 300 years, and the panelled walls are hung with local paintings. All the old favourites are on the menu. Pink magret de canard (duck breast), andouillette sausages, boudin noir (black pudding), and c\u00f4te de boeuf. The joys of chocolate fondant and tarte tatin followed. Prices were reasonable for the excellent cooking. A pre-dinner stroll could take in the frescoed, Romanesque church wildflower gardens and Les Jardins de la Mansoni\u00e8re. \u2022 +33 2 3326 4918, Le Bourg, mains \u20ac15-\u20ac30MadeleineMorrowHameau Duboeuf, La Gare, Roman\u00e8che-Thorins This makes a fantastic stop-off on your way down France. The bistro is in the Georges Duboeuf Wine Museum, serving latest wines from this amazing French wine king. The food is simple yet delicious, and the museum is also well worth a visit if you have time.\u2022 route de la Gare, +33 3 8535 2222, hameauduvin.comPopincourt", "tags": ["France holidays", "Restaurants", "French food and drink", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: bistros in France"},{"date": "2012-03-20T22:21:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "As he was held in prison on Devil's Island, the only prayers that Alfred Dreyfus offered up were those to the president of the republic. Piers Paul Read points out in his new account of the most infamous miscarriage of French justice that the ideals that sustained the Jewish army officer falsely accused of espionage were those of republican France. Read quotes from one of the letters Dreyfus wrote from his Caribbean gulag to his wife Lucie: \"However atrocious may have been the tortures inflicted on me \u2026 I have never forgotten that, far above men, far above their passions, far above their errors, is our country. It is she who will be my final judge.\"A similar sentiment is re-emerging in a France stunned by the Toulouse shootings. And it will pour out on to Paris's streets on Saturday when the French \u2013 Jews and Muslims and everyone else \u2013 will march in their thousands together. Their message stands repetition: the republic will come together in the face of such an assault on its minorities. Until the massive manhunt tracks down its quarry, it is dangerous to speculate on motives. They may have no connection with the 17th Parachute regiment of Montauban, three of whose members were filmed in 2008 making Nazi salutes.We simply do not know whether the shootings are connected to the anniversary of the end of the Algerian war, or whether France is on the brink of its own Oslo moment, when Anders Behring Breivik massacred 77 people at a Social Democrat summer camp last year.Campaigning has been suspended, but the shooting has already sent tremors through France's presidential election. The first to say what was on everyone's mind was not the Socialist challenger Fran\u00e7ois Hollande but the centrist Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou. He said the killings were the product of a sick society, with politicians who pointed the finger and inflamed passions. No prize for guessing whom he was talking about. Nicolas Sarkozy's lurch to the right has included such claims as there being too many immigrants in France, and that the French were secretly ingesting halal meat. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the foreign minister, fought back by declaring that Bayrou's statement was ignoble. But it is must already be clear this part of the incumbent's re-election campaign is dead. Currying votes from the extreme right is a two-edged sword, and Sarkozy could be about to feel its blade. The minister who has been most shamelessly xenophobic, Claude Gu\u00e9ant, is now the man in charge of of the manhunt.This was not the election campaign \u2013 personalised, divisive, vituperative \u2013 that France wanted or needed. France's main concern, like Britain's, is jobs. Its problem, like ours, is curbing the super-rich not immigrants. Mr Sarkozy may now try to move to the centre ground. But let us hope he does not fool too many voters.", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "Gun crime", "France", "World news"], "title": "France: republican ideals | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-15T20:12:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Investigators fear an assassin on a scooter is targeting French soldiers after two were killed and a third seriously injured in a \"ride-by\" shooting, the second attack in less than a week.The three members of a parachute regiment were shot in a busy town centre on Thursday afternoon. Two died on the spot, while the third was reported to be in a critical condition in hospital.The attack followed the murder last weekend of an officer in another parachute regiment, shot in a similar manner by a motorcycle gunman.The soldiers, all in their 20s and wearing uniform, were standing by a cash machine in Montauban, south-west France. Police who sealed off the town centre before investigating said that it was unclear whether the three were withdrawing money, or had left a nearby shop or restaurant and were passing by when they came under a fusilade of shots shortly after 2pm, heard by people nearby. The killer, who was wearing a full-face helmet, then rode off on a scooter; more than a dozen spent cartridges were found at the scene.The men were serving in the 17th Parachute Regiment, which has done tours of duty in Afghanistan, Lebanon and the former Yugoslavia, and is based at a barracks very near the attack.President Nicolas Sarkozy, visiting eastern France, said he had sent defence minister G\u00e9rard Longuet to Montauban to direct operations, but could not say more: \"The circumstances are confused and at the current time I cannot give you any explanation.\" Longuet said he was confident investigators would do all they could to ensure the gunman was brought to justice, adding that his thoughts were with the \"families of the dead men and their regiment\".Brigitte Bar\u00e8ges, mayor of Montauban, said that she was \"shocked and outraged\" by \"an assassination that appeared like a true summary execution\". The regiment had \"already paid, sadly, the price of the war in Afghanistan\", she added, having lost four soldiers there.On Sunday in a suburb of Toulouse, 46km south of Montauban, an off-duty member of another regiment was shot in the head at point blank range by a gunman on a scooter. Imad Ibn-Ziaten, 30, a marshall in the 1st Parachute Regiment, was standing next to his Suzuki 650cc motorbike outside a gym and had been wearing his helmet at the time; he was not in uniform.Detectives say that Ziaten had advertised his motorbike for sale and took a call from what appeared to be an interested buyer minutes before he was killed. Ziaten's commanding officer said that he had served with the French army in Ivory Coast, Chad and Gabon.But police hunting the killer or killers in the two cases have said that they have yet to establish a definite link. A police source told journalists: \"Every-one thinks there's a link between the two incidents, but we have to wait for the first results of the inquiry.\"", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Three soldiers shot in France"},{"date": "2012-03-05T10:49:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "Le Colombier is a lovely family-run restaurant away from the city's tourist area. An unassuming front opens on to a rustic, friendly restaurant. They specialise in cassoulet and classics such as magret de canard. After a heavy main course try a refreshing sorbet 'drowning' in champagne. \u2022 14 rue Bayard, +33 5 6162 4005, restaurant-lecolombier.com, three-course menu \u20ac22 alexandrafChez Toinette, MontmartreWe found this warm friendly bistro by accident when walking away from the crowds through the back streets of Montmartre. It has a great atmosphere and reasonably priced, tasty classic dishes (around \u20ac15 for a main course). There's a good, unpretentious selection of wine too. We went around 9pm, when it was quite buzzy, the clientele pretty much all French.\u2022 20 rue Germain Pilon, +33 1 4254 4436, cheztoinette.commissmarple0512Chez Germaine, Palais-BourbonIt's not often you find an excellent bistro in Paris at reasonable prices, but Chez Germaine ticks all the boxes. In the heart of Paris (7th arrondissement), it exudes class with its simple, yet elegant interior, daily set menus and friendly (English-speaking!) waiters. I would recommend a homemade terrine as a starter, followed by pork with lentils. Glorious!\u2022 30 rue Pierre Leroux, +33 1 4273 2834, three-course dinner \u20ac25Mason1Le Basilic, MontmartreTypically we stumble on the best restaurants on the last night of our trips, and invariably they are right under our noses. Such was the case with Le Basilic. It is intimate, atmospheric, inviting and affordable with a three-course set menu for \u20ac23 or the Parisian staples of escargot and duck from the \u00e0 la carte menu. We'd felt ripped off in the majority of Parisian eateries, but Le Basilic restored our faith in French bistros, especially considering its location within a mile of Moulin Rouge and Sacr\u00e9-Coeur. \u2022 33 rue Lepic, +33 1 4606 7843, mains from \u20ac15TonyhardmanChez Janou, MaraisJust behind the place des Vosges on the corner of a street, you come upon a small bistro bursting with colour, ambience and delicious food. You can wait for a table at the bar, which has a fabulous range of Proven\u00e7al wines. Then enjoy a meal starting with tasty olives and moving on to classics such as mussels, steak and duck; somebody at your table has to have the chocolate mousse. This place is quintessentially French, and humming with local chat.\u2022 2 rue Roger Verlomme, +33 1 4272 2841, chezjanou.com, three-course lunch \u20ac14JoDonaldsonLe Bistro au Vieux Ch\u00eaneThis is a small, welcoming French bistro in a side street in the 11th arrondissement, a bit off the tourist track. The menu is short and the food good, and the wine list has something for every pocket.\u2022 7 rue du Dahomey, +33 1 4371 6769, vieuxchene.fr. Two-course dinner \u20ac28, three-course dinner \u20ac33 bananatrussLe Saint Georges, St-Juire-ChampgillonThis is a lovely fine-dining restaurant in a village between Ste-Hermine and Chantonnay. Wonderful service, beautiful food! You need to book in advance as they fill up quickly. \u2022 11 place de la Mairie, +33 2 5127 8691, lesaintgeorges.wordpress.com, seven-course tasting menu \u20ac69 NatashaGSkinnerLa Cigale, NantesA lunchtime visit to La Cigale en route back to the UK lifted our post-vacation spirits. La Cigale dates back to the 1890s andhas breathtaking ornate tiling between wooden panels and gorgeous mosaics. The cigale (grasshopper) can be seen in various poses in the tiles and mosaics. Apparently the cigale plays and eats all summer, a creature of the moment. The ambience of La Cigale coupled with the delicious food \u2013 sea food is a speciality \u2013 encourages you to live in moment.4 place Graslin, +33 2 5184 9494 lacigale.comGoforth12Auberge Des Peintres, Saint-C\u00e9neri-Le-G\u00e9reiThis building dates back 300 years, and the panelled walls are hung with local paintings. All the old favourites are on the menu. Pink magret de canard (duck breast), andouillette sausages, boudin noir (black pudding), and c\u00f4te de boeuf. The joys of chocolate fondant and tarte tatin followed. Prices were reasonable for the excellent cooking. A pre-dinner stroll could take in the frescoed, Romanesque church wildflower gardens and Les Jardins de la Mansoni\u00e8re. \u2022 +33 2 3326 4918, Le Bourg, mains \u20ac15-\u20ac30MadeleineMorrowHameau Duboeuf, La Gare, Roman\u00e8che-Thorins This makes a fantastic stop-off on your way down France. The bistro is in the Georges Duboeuf Wine Museum, serving latest wines from this amazing French wine king. The food is simple yet delicious, and the museum is also well worth a visit if you have time.\u2022 route de la Gare, +33 3 8535 2222, hameauduvin.comPopincourt", "tags": ["France holidays", "Restaurants", "French food and drink", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: bistros in France"},{"date": "2012-02-06T16:00:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "At 42 Avenue Foch, the tree-lined boulevard that is one of Paris's most expensive streets, looms a five-storey private mansion complete with disco, spa room, hair salon, gold- and jewel-encrusted taps, lift, pastel pink dining room and a breathtaking balcony-view of the Arc de Triomphe.Local people always knew when there was about to be a visit from its 41-year-old \"playboy\" resident, Teodorin Obiang, eldest son of the autocratic president of Equatorial Guinea. Days before Obiang Jr's private jet touched down, two massive lorries would pull up outside and disgorge a sea of fresh flowers to dress the interior of the mansion.When Obiang was in residence, passersby would see a parade of couturiers from Paris's top design houses, including Yves Saint Laurent, Dior, Louis Vuitton, waiting to be admitted for fittings before returning with vanloads of made-to-measure clothes. Crates of the most expensive burgundy were another regular delivery.On one occasion 15,000 DVDs were hauled in on wooden pallets \u2013 roughly 41 years worth of viewing.But the most public statement of opulence was the fleet of luxury, turbo-charged, yellow, red and blue sports cars, parked in garages or in the cobbled courtyard.\"The noise-factor was extreme,\" one local said. \"He seemed obsessed with security so when he wanted to go out between midnight and 2am, he'd order the chauffeur to warm up four cars so no one knew which he'd take. Can you imagine the noise of Ferraris, Porsches and Maseratis all running at once? Then he'd come down and decide to take a fifth car and that would have to be started.\"But the courtyard has fallen quiet, the mansion empty of occupants. Three months ago, in a morning raid, French police towed away 11 luxury cars, including a Maserati, a Porsche Carrera, an Aston Martin and a Mercedes Maybach.At the time, Obiang Jr, whose salary as Equatorial Guinea's agriculture and forestry minister was \u20ac3,200 (\u00a32,700) a month, owned two Bugatti Veyrons, the most expensive and fastest street car in the world, costing about \u20ac1m a piece and reaching 250mph . He was in the process of acquiring a third.The raid was the first in the landmark French inquiry known as the case of the \"ill-gotten gains\".In an unprecedented move, three serving African leaders and their families are under investigation in Paris over whether they embezzled state funds to acquire vast assets in France including bank accounts, Riviera villas and fleets of luxury cars.The clan of Gabon's late leader Omar Bongo and its current leader, his son Ali Bongo; the Congo-Brazzaville leader, Denis Sassou-Nguesso and his family, and President Teodoro Obiang of Equatorial Guinea and his clan are accused of having assets worth \u20ac160m in France, from penthouses and villas to scores of bank accounts and luxury car fleets.The leaders and their families have denied building up personal wealth in France through embezzlement, money-laundering and misuse of public funds.Judges are beginning the detailed task of trying to prove such spectacular wealth was directly siphoned from the coffers of the oil-rich states to the detriment of populations left to live in misery.In 2000, just as Obiang began building up his car collection, Equatorial Guinea was on paper the wealthiest African country per inhabitant, yet a majority of its people lived below the UN poverty threshold.With billions of dollars worth of assets of Muammar Gaddafi frozen by the UN and member countries, and other legal moves to recover the wealth of deposed autocrats such as Tunisia's Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali and Egypt's Hosni Mubarak, the drive to seize billions plundered by corrupt leaders has never been higher.But the French case against three serving African leaders, initiated by anti-corruption NGOs as part of a long legal battle, also illustrates the limits on western willingness to act against rulers still in power.\"With deposed heads of state after the Arab spring, there was no problem, the whole community was scandalised at the plundering of money from their countries. We're warning against double standards: why should you have to wait for a leader to fall to put a stop to corruption?\" said Maud Perdriel-Vaissiere, head of Sherpa, one NGO leading the case.The police inquiry has given an unprecedented insight into the lifestyle of certain African leaders. When the spectacular art collection from the homes of the late fashion designer Yves Saint Laurent went up for auction in Paris in 2009 it was called the art sale of the century and raised more than \u20ac370m. French authorities later revealed that Obiang Jr bought 109\u00a0lots at the sale, costing \u20ac18m.Olivier Pardo, lawyer for Equatorial Guinea in France, said the case of the \"ill-gotten gains\" violated international law and that he would contest the case and pursue France through the international courts. It may not just be France.A US government court action is seeking to seize $71m (\u00a345m) of assets from Obiang Jr in the US which it claims were paid for through corruption. His US assets are said to include a $38.5m Gulfstream V private jet, a $30m mansion in Malibu, California, and $1.8m of Michael Jackson memorabilia, including a white crystal-covered glove and a crystal-covered pair of socks. A spokesman for Equatorial Guinea denied wrongdoing. An inquiry into the Obiangs' assets is also underway in Spain.On a corner of Paris's chic Avenue Rapp, in the heart of the wealthy 7th\u00a0arrondissement, a short walk from the Eiffel tower, the gentlemen's outfitters Pape tells its own story of the lifestyle of leaders of oil-rich states.The Senegalese tailor Pape Ibrahima N'diaye, a Paris institution known as \"Monsieur Pape\", is a favourite of French lawyers, politicians and businessmen.Denis Sassou N'Guesso, the 68-year-old leader of Congo-Brazzaville, famous for his impeccable suits and dress sense, did not hold back in his private fittings.A new book, The Scandal of the Ill-Gotten Gains, by the investigative journalists Thomas Hofnung and Xavier Harel, has sent shockwaves through the French establishment with fresh details of spending habits.In it, the authors reveal a note by Tracfin, the French anti-money laundering authority, which states that in April 2010, Sassou N'Guesso ordered 91 suits from Pape for \u20ac276,000. A month earlier, in March 2010, he had bought 48 shirts for \u20ac24,000. In one year, in the 12 months from November 2009, Sassou N'Guesso spent more than \u20ac652,000 on clothes there. His lawyer dismissed the sum as \"false and absurd\".The Sassou N'Guesso clan have 24 properties in France in their own name, 112 bank accounts and various sports cars. Meanwhile, NGOs point out that 70% of Congo-Brazzaville people live on less than $1 a day.In the heart of the 8th\u00a0arrondissement, not far from the French president's Elys\u00e9e palace, a mansion on the quiet Rue de la Baume has come to symbolise the wealth of Gabon's late leader Omar Bongo. When Bongo died in 2009, he was the world's longest-ruling head of state, save for the British and Thai monarchies.A friend of all recent French presidents, at one time he owned more Paris properties than any other foreign leader. The Bongo clan has the biggest property portfolio in the \"ill-gotten gains case\".A preliminary police report claimed he and his close relatives own 39 properties in France, mostly in exclusive districts of Paris and on the French Riviera. They also have 70 French bank accounts and at least nine luxury cars in France, including Ferraris and Mercedes worth a total of \u20ac1.5m. Bongo's son, Ali Bongo, was elected president in 2009 after his father's death. That year he bought himself a Bentley Continental Flying Spur for more than \u20ac200,000, which can run for 1,500 miles without refuelling despite the fact that oil-rich Gabon has less than 500 miles of asphalt roads.Anti-corruption campaigners have already trooped past the \u20ac18.9m mansion on Rue de La Baume, bought in 2007 in the name of two Bongo children, then 13 and 16, and other relatives, in what some call Paris's \"ill-gotten gains\" walking tour. Rooms are full of unopened boxes of electrical kitchen goods which suggest the house hasn't yet been moved into. A broken doorbell hangs from a wire beside the entrance.When in power, Omar Bongo's official salary was reportedly \u20ac14,940 to \u20ac20,000 a month. French officials are now investigating where the money came from. A 2007 French police report indicated that the payments for some vehicles \"appeared at least atypical\".The case has shed further light on allegations of French collusion in corruption under the cosy system known as \"fran\u00e7afrique\" \u2013 in which kickbacks, petrodollars and privileged relations defined Paris's foreign policy towards its former colonies.Recent allegations about African leaders regularly giving briefcases of cash to French politicians has ruffled feathers in Paris. \"It has contributed to a climate of mistrust of politicians, one of a number of different affairs which have sparked revulsion in France,\" said Hofnung, co-author of the Scandal of the Ill-Gotten Gains.Paris, with its image as the capital of the art of living, was always popular with high-spending dictators. \u00acThe question now is what impact the case has in other countries where serving leaders placed their cash.Tim Daniel, a British lawyer and anti-corruption specialist, said: \"London is a No\u00a01 destination for kleptocrats.\" But British law does not allow for cases to be brought by NGOs, so any recovery of assets would depend on the money-laundering authorities.One of Nigeria's most influential and wealthy politicians, James Ibori, has been charged in London with 25 offences relating to alleged money-laundering and fraud and will soon face trial.\"The international anti-corruption community is following the French case intensely,\" Daniel said. \"It's a very interesting precedent.\"", "tags": ["France", "Equatorial Guinea", "Gabon", "Congo Brazzaville", "Africa", "United Nations", "World news", "Governance", "Transparency", "Global development"], "title": "France impounds African autocrats' 'ill-gotten gains'"},{"date": "2012-03-20T22:21:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "As he was held in prison on Devil's Island, the only prayers that Alfred Dreyfus offered up were those to the president of the republic. Piers Paul Read points out in his new account of the most infamous miscarriage of French justice that the ideals that sustained the Jewish army officer falsely accused of espionage were those of republican France. Read quotes from one of the letters Dreyfus wrote from his Caribbean gulag to his wife Lucie: \"However atrocious may have been the tortures inflicted on me \u2026 I have never forgotten that, far above men, far above their passions, far above their errors, is our country. It is she who will be my final judge.\"A similar sentiment is re-emerging in a France stunned by the Toulouse shootings. And it will pour out on to Paris's streets on Saturday when the French \u2013 Jews and Muslims and everyone else \u2013 will march in their thousands together. Their message stands repetition: the republic will come together in the face of such an assault on its minorities. Until the massive manhunt tracks down its quarry, it is dangerous to speculate on motives. They may have no connection with the 17th Parachute regiment of Montauban, three of whose members were filmed in 2008 making Nazi salutes.We simply do not know whether the shootings are connected to the anniversary of the end of the Algerian war, or whether France is on the brink of its own Oslo moment, when Anders Behring Breivik massacred 77 people at a Social Democrat summer camp last year.Campaigning has been suspended, but the shooting has already sent tremors through France's presidential election. The first to say what was on everyone's mind was not the Socialist challenger Fran\u00e7ois Hollande but the centrist Fran\u00e7ois Bayrou. He said the killings were the product of a sick society, with politicians who pointed the finger and inflamed passions. No prize for guessing whom he was talking about. Nicolas Sarkozy's lurch to the right has included such claims as there being too many immigrants in France, and that the French were secretly ingesting halal meat. Alain Jupp\u00e9, the foreign minister, fought back by declaring that Bayrou's statement was ignoble. But it is must already be clear this part of the incumbent's re-election campaign is dead. Currying votes from the extreme right is a two-edged sword, and Sarkozy could be about to feel its blade. The minister who has been most shamelessly xenophobic, Claude Gu\u00e9ant, is now the man in charge of of the manhunt.This was not the election campaign \u2013 personalised, divisive, vituperative \u2013 that France wanted or needed. France's main concern, like Britain's, is jobs. Its problem, like ours, is curbing the super-rich not immigrants. Mr Sarkozy may now try to move to the centre ground. But let us hope he does not fool too many voters.", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "Gun crime", "France", "World news"], "title": "France: republican ideals | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-03-15T20:12:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Investigators fear an assassin on a scooter is targeting French soldiers after two were killed and a third seriously injured in a \"ride-by\" shooting, the second attack in less than a week.The three members of a parachute regiment were shot in a busy town centre on Thursday afternoon. Two died on the spot, while the third was reported to be in a critical condition in hospital.The attack followed the murder last weekend of an officer in another parachute regiment, shot in a similar manner by a motorcycle gunman.The soldiers, all in their 20s and wearing uniform, were standing by a cash machine in Montauban, south-west France. Police who sealed off the town centre before investigating said that it was unclear whether the three were withdrawing money, or had left a nearby shop or restaurant and were passing by when they came under a fusilade of shots shortly after 2pm, heard by people nearby. The killer, who was wearing a full-face helmet, then rode off on a scooter; more than a dozen spent cartridges were found at the scene.The men were serving in the 17th Parachute Regiment, which has done tours of duty in Afghanistan, Lebanon and the former Yugoslavia, and is based at a barracks very near the attack.President Nicolas Sarkozy, visiting eastern France, said he had sent defence minister G\u00e9rard Longuet to Montauban to direct operations, but could not say more: \"The circumstances are confused and at the current time I cannot give you any explanation.\" Longuet said he was confident investigators would do all they could to ensure the gunman was brought to justice, adding that his thoughts were with the \"families of the dead men and their regiment\".Brigitte Bar\u00e8ges, mayor of Montauban, said that she was \"shocked and outraged\" by \"an assassination that appeared like a true summary execution\". The regiment had \"already paid, sadly, the price of the war in Afghanistan\", she added, having lost four soldiers there.On Sunday in a suburb of Toulouse, 46km south of Montauban, an off-duty member of another regiment was shot in the head at point blank range by a gunman on a scooter. Imad Ibn-Ziaten, 30, a marshall in the 1st Parachute Regiment, was standing next to his Suzuki 650cc motorbike outside a gym and had been wearing his helmet at the time; he was not in uniform.Detectives say that Ziaten had advertised his motorbike for sale and took a call from what appeared to be an interested buyer minutes before he was killed. Ziaten's commanding officer said that he had served with the French army in Ivory Coast, Chad and Gabon.But police hunting the killer or killers in the two cases have said that they have yet to establish a definite link. A police source told journalists: \"Every-one thinks there's a link between the two incidents, but we have to wait for the first results of the inquiry.\"", "tags": ["Toulouse shootings", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Three soldiers shot in France"},{"date": "2012-03-05T10:49:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "Le Colombier is a lovely family-run restaurant away from the city's tourist area. An unassuming front opens on to a rustic, friendly restaurant. They specialise in cassoulet and classics such as magret de canard. After a heavy main course try a refreshing sorbet 'drowning' in champagne. \u2022 14 rue Bayard, +33 5 6162 4005, restaurant-lecolombier.com, three-course menu \u20ac22 alexandrafChez Toinette, MontmartreWe found this warm friendly bistro by accident when walking away from the crowds through the back streets of Montmartre. It has a great atmosphere and reasonably priced, tasty classic dishes (around \u20ac15 for a main course). There's a good, unpretentious selection of wine too. We went around 9pm, when it was quite buzzy, the clientele pretty much all French.\u2022 20 rue Germain Pilon, +33 1 4254 4436, cheztoinette.commissmarple0512Chez Germaine, Palais-BourbonIt's not often you find an excellent bistro in Paris at reasonable prices, but Chez Germaine ticks all the boxes. In the heart of Paris (7th arrondissement), it exudes class with its simple, yet elegant interior, daily set menus and friendly (English-speaking!) waiters. I would recommend a homemade terrine as a starter, followed by pork with lentils. Glorious!\u2022 30 rue Pierre Leroux, +33 1 4273 2834, three-course dinner \u20ac25Mason1Le Basilic, MontmartreTypically we stumble on the best restaurants on the last night of our trips, and invariably they are right under our noses. Such was the case with Le Basilic. It is intimate, atmospheric, inviting and affordable with a three-course set menu for \u20ac23 or the Parisian staples of escargot and duck from the \u00e0 la carte menu. We'd felt ripped off in the majority of Parisian eateries, but Le Basilic restored our faith in French bistros, especially considering its location within a mile of Moulin Rouge and Sacr\u00e9-Coeur. \u2022 33 rue Lepic, +33 1 4606 7843, mains from \u20ac15TonyhardmanChez Janou, MaraisJust behind the place des Vosges on the corner of a street, you come upon a small bistro bursting with colour, ambience and delicious food. You can wait for a table at the bar, which has a fabulous range of Proven\u00e7al wines. Then enjoy a meal starting with tasty olives and moving on to classics such as mussels, steak and duck; somebody at your table has to have the chocolate mousse. This place is quintessentially French, and humming with local chat.\u2022 2 rue Roger Verlomme, +33 1 4272 2841, chezjanou.com, three-course lunch \u20ac14JoDonaldsonLe Bistro au Vieux Ch\u00eaneThis is a small, welcoming French bistro in a side street in the 11th arrondissement, a bit off the tourist track. The menu is short and the food good, and the wine list has something for every pocket.\u2022 7 rue du Dahomey, +33 1 4371 6769, vieuxchene.fr. Two-course dinner \u20ac28, three-course dinner \u20ac33 bananatrussLe Saint Georges, St-Juire-ChampgillonThis is a lovely fine-dining restaurant in a village between Ste-Hermine and Chantonnay. Wonderful service, beautiful food! You need to book in advance as they fill up quickly. \u2022 11 place de la Mairie, +33 2 5127 8691, lesaintgeorges.wordpress.com, seven-course tasting menu \u20ac69 NatashaGSkinnerLa Cigale, NantesA lunchtime visit to La Cigale en route back to the UK lifted our post-vacation spirits. La Cigale dates back to the 1890s andhas breathtaking ornate tiling between wooden panels and gorgeous mosaics. The cigale (grasshopper) can be seen in various poses in the tiles and mosaics. Apparently the cigale plays and eats all summer, a creature of the moment. The ambience of La Cigale coupled with the delicious food \u2013 sea food is a speciality \u2013 encourages you to live in moment.4 place Graslin, +33 2 5184 9494 lacigale.comGoforth12Auberge Des Peintres, Saint-C\u00e9neri-Le-G\u00e9reiThis building dates back 300 years, and the panelled walls are hung with local paintings. All the old favourites are on the menu. Pink magret de canard (duck breast), andouillette sausages, boudin noir (black pudding), and c\u00f4te de boeuf. The joys of chocolate fondant and tarte tatin followed. Prices were reasonable for the excellent cooking. A pre-dinner stroll could take in the frescoed, Romanesque church wildflower gardens and Les Jardins de la Mansoni\u00e8re. \u2022 +33 2 3326 4918, Le Bourg, mains \u20ac15-\u20ac30MadeleineMorrowHameau Duboeuf, La Gare, Roman\u00e8che-Thorins This makes a fantastic stop-off on your way down France. The bistro is in the Georges Duboeuf Wine Museum, serving latest wines from this amazing French wine king. The food is simple yet delicious, and the museum is also well worth a visit if you have time.\u2022 route de la Gare, +33 3 8535 2222, hameauduvin.comPopincourt", "tags": ["France holidays", "Restaurants", "French food and drink", "Restaurants", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: bistros in France"},{"date": "2012-02-06T16:00:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "At 42 Avenue Foch, the tree-lined boulevard that is one of Paris's most expensive streets, looms a five-storey private mansion complete with disco, spa room, hair salon, gold- and jewel-encrusted taps, lift, pastel pink dining room and a breathtaking balcony-view of the Arc de Triomphe.Local people always knew when there was about to be a visit from its 41-year-old \"playboy\" resident, Teodorin Obiang, eldest son of the autocratic president of Equatorial Guinea. Days before Obiang Jr's private jet touched down, two massive lorries would pull up outside and disgorge a sea of fresh flowers to dress the interior of the mansion.When Obiang was in residence, passersby would see a parade of couturiers from Paris's top design houses, including Yves Saint Laurent, Dior, Louis Vuitton, waiting to be admitted for fittings before returning with vanloads of made-to-measure clothes. Crates of the most expensive burgundy were another regular delivery.On one occasion 15,000 DVDs were hauled in on wooden pallets \u2013 roughly 41 years worth of viewing.But the most public statement of opulence was the fleet of luxury, turbo-charged, yellow, red and blue sports cars, parked in garages or in the cobbled courtyard.\"The noise-factor was extreme,\" one local said. \"He seemed obsessed with security so when he wanted to go out between midnight and 2am, he'd order the chauffeur to warm up four cars so no one knew which he'd take. Can you imagine the noise of Ferraris, Porsches and Maseratis all running at once? Then he'd come down and decide to take a fifth car and that would have to be started.\"But the courtyard has fallen quiet, the mansion empty of occupants. Three months ago, in a morning raid, French police towed away 11 luxury cars, including a Maserati, a Porsche Carrera, an Aston Martin and a Mercedes Maybach.At the time, Obiang Jr, whose salary as Equatorial Guinea's agriculture and forestry minister was \u20ac3,200 (\u00a32,700) a month, owned two Bugatti Veyrons, the most expensive and fastest street car in the world, costing about \u20ac1m a piece and reaching 250mph . He was in the process of acquiring a third.The raid was the first in the landmark French inquiry known as the case of the \"ill-gotten gains\".In an unprecedented move, three serving African leaders and their families are under investigation in Paris over whether they embezzled state funds to acquire vast assets in France including bank accounts, Riviera villas and fleets of luxury cars.The clan of Gabon's late leader Omar Bongo and its current leader, his son Ali Bongo; the Congo-Brazzaville leader, Denis Sassou-Nguesso and his family, and President Teodoro Obiang of Equatorial Guinea and his clan are accused of having assets worth \u20ac160m in France, from penthouses and villas to scores of bank accounts and luxury car fleets.The leaders and their families have denied building up personal wealth in France through embezzlement, money-laundering and misuse of public funds.Judges are beginning the detailed task of trying to prove such spectacular wealth was directly siphoned from the coffers of the oil-rich states to the detriment of populations left to live in misery.In 2000, just as Obiang began building up his car collection, Equatorial Guinea was on paper the wealthiest African country per inhabitant, yet a majority of its people lived below the UN poverty threshold.With billions of dollars worth of assets of Muammar Gaddafi frozen by the UN and member countries, and other legal moves to recover the wealth of deposed autocrats such as Tunisia's Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali and Egypt's Hosni Mubarak, the drive to seize billions plundered by corrupt leaders has never been higher.But the French case against three serving African leaders, initiated by anti-corruption NGOs as part of a long legal battle, also illustrates the limits on western willingness to act against rulers still in power.\"With deposed heads of state after the Arab spring, there was no problem, the whole community was scandalised at the plundering of money from their countries. We're warning against double standards: why should you have to wait for a leader to fall to put a stop to corruption?\" said Maud Perdriel-Vaissiere, head of Sherpa, one NGO leading the case.The police inquiry has given an unprecedented insight into the lifestyle of certain African leaders. When the spectacular art collection from the homes of the late fashion designer Yves Saint Laurent went up for auction in Paris in 2009 it was called the art sale of the century and raised more than \u20ac370m. French authorities later revealed that Obiang Jr bought 109\u00a0lots at the sale, costing \u20ac18m.Olivier Pardo, lawyer for Equatorial Guinea in France, said the case of the \"ill-gotten gains\" violated international law and that he would contest the case and pursue France through the international courts. It may not just be France.A US government court action is seeking to seize $71m (\u00a345m) of assets from Obiang Jr in the US which it claims were paid for through corruption. His US assets are said to include a $38.5m Gulfstream V private jet, a $30m mansion in Malibu, California, and $1.8m of Michael Jackson memorabilia, including a white crystal-covered glove and a crystal-covered pair of socks. A spokesman for Equatorial Guinea denied wrongdoing. An inquiry into the Obiangs' assets is also underway in Spain.On a corner of Paris's chic Avenue Rapp, in the heart of the wealthy 7th\u00a0arrondissement, a short walk from the Eiffel tower, the gentlemen's outfitters Pape tells its own story of the lifestyle of leaders of oil-rich states.The Senegalese tailor Pape Ibrahima N'diaye, a Paris institution known as \"Monsieur Pape\", is a favourite of French lawyers, politicians and businessmen.Denis Sassou N'Guesso, the 68-year-old leader of Congo-Brazzaville, famous for his impeccable suits and dress sense, did not hold back in his private fittings.A new book, The Scandal of the Ill-Gotten Gains, by the investigative journalists Thomas Hofnung and Xavier Harel, has sent shockwaves through the French establishment with fresh details of spending habits.In it, the authors reveal a note by Tracfin, the French anti-money laundering authority, which states that in April 2010, Sassou N'Guesso ordered 91 suits from Pape for \u20ac276,000. A month earlier, in March 2010, he had bought 48 shirts for \u20ac24,000. In one year, in the 12 months from November 2009, Sassou N'Guesso spent more than \u20ac652,000 on clothes there. His lawyer dismissed the sum as \"false and absurd\".The Sassou N'Guesso clan have 24 properties in France in their own name, 112 bank accounts and various sports cars. Meanwhile, NGOs point out that 70% of Congo-Brazzaville people live on less than $1 a day.In the heart of the 8th\u00a0arrondissement, not far from the French president's Elys\u00e9e palace, a mansion on the quiet Rue de la Baume has come to symbolise the wealth of Gabon's late leader Omar Bongo. When Bongo died in 2009, he was the world's longest-ruling head of state, save for the British and Thai monarchies.A friend of all recent French presidents, at one time he owned more Paris properties than any other foreign leader. The Bongo clan has the biggest property portfolio in the \"ill-gotten gains case\".A preliminary police report claimed he and his close relatives own 39 properties in France, mostly in exclusive districts of Paris and on the French Riviera. They also have 70 French bank accounts and at least nine luxury cars in France, including Ferraris and Mercedes worth a total of \u20ac1.5m. Bongo's son, Ali Bongo, was elected president in 2009 after his father's death. That year he bought himself a Bentley Continental Flying Spur for more than \u20ac200,000, which can run for 1,500 miles without refuelling despite the fact that oil-rich Gabon has less than 500 miles of asphalt roads.Anti-corruption campaigners have already trooped past the \u20ac18.9m mansion on Rue de La Baume, bought in 2007 in the name of two Bongo children, then 13 and 16, and other relatives, in what some call Paris's \"ill-gotten gains\" walking tour. Rooms are full of unopened boxes of electrical kitchen goods which suggest the house hasn't yet been moved into. A broken doorbell hangs from a wire beside the entrance.When in power, Omar Bongo's official salary was reportedly \u20ac14,940 to \u20ac20,000 a month. French officials are now investigating where the money came from. A 2007 French police report indicated that the payments for some vehicles \"appeared at least atypical\".The case has shed further light on allegations of French collusion in corruption under the cosy system known as \"fran\u00e7afrique\" \u2013 in which kickbacks, petrodollars and privileged relations defined Paris's foreign policy towards its former colonies.Recent allegations about African leaders regularly giving briefcases of cash to French politicians has ruffled feathers in Paris. \"It has contributed to a climate of mistrust of politicians, one of a number of different affairs which have sparked revulsion in France,\" said Hofnung, co-author of the Scandal of the Ill-Gotten Gains.Paris, with its image as the capital of the art of living, was always popular with high-spending dictators. \u00acThe question now is what impact the case has in other countries where serving leaders placed their cash.Tim Daniel, a British lawyer and anti-corruption specialist, said: \"London is a No\u00a01 destination for kleptocrats.\" But British law does not allow for cases to be brought by NGOs, so any recovery of assets would depend on the money-laundering authorities.One of Nigeria's most influential and wealthy politicians, James Ibori, has been charged in London with 25 offences relating to alleged money-laundering and fraud and will soon face trial.\"The international anti-corruption community is following the French case intensely,\" Daniel said. \"It's a very interesting precedent.\"", "tags": ["France", "Equatorial Guinea", "Gabon", "Congo Brazzaville", "Africa", "United Nations", "World news", "Governance", "Transparency", "Global development"], "title": "France impounds African autocrats' 'ill-gotten gains'"},{"date": "2012-01-30T16:25:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy has announced plans to impose a tax on financial transactions.The French president said a new 0.1% tax would come into force in August regardless of whether or not the European Union agrees to impose a 'Tobin tax' across the EU.In a lengthy TV interview the French president said he hoped his move would push other countries into taking action. \"What we want to do is create a shockwave and set an example that there is absolutely no reason why those who helped bring about the crisis shouldn't pay to restore the finances,\" Sarkozy said. \"We hope the tax will generate \u20ac1bn (\u00a3800m) of new income and thus cut our budget deficit.\"The tax has been dismissed by many experts as a purely political move as Sarkozy trails behind socialist Francois Hollande in the polls ahead of the country's presidential elections.The country's national bank, the Bank of France, has already questioned the feasibility of a tax that will only be imposed in France and the nation's financial sector has been very vocal in its opposition. \"A tax that's limited to France would weigh on growth, lead to a loss of competitiveness, and create a heavy handicap for the financing of the French economy,\" the French Banking Federation said this month.Shares in France's big banks, Soci\u00e9t\u00e9 G\u00e9n\u00e9rale and BNP Paribas, both dropped 3% in early trading.The tax has become politically important to Sarkozy because he pledged to impose it when France held the presidency of both the G8 and G20 last year.In September the European commission suggested a tax of 0.1% on equity and bond transactions and 0.01% on derivatives, which it said could raise \u20ac55bn a year. European Union finance ministers are due to discuss the tax in March.The threat of a Europe-wide transaction tax was one of the reasons why David Cameron vetoed the EU treaty change to tackle the eurozone crisis in December. He said it would be \"madness\" and cost the UK 500,000 jobs.David Hillman, a spokesman for the Robin Hood Tax campaign in the UK, said: \"Sarkozy has shown he is capable of reining in the banks and ensuring they pay more in tax. Why then is David Cameron so resistant when the idea is backed by the British people?\"If he's serious about us 'all being in this together' he needs to get on and introduce Britain's own tax to make banks pay their fair share.\"The French tax will apply to share purchases, including high frequency trading, and CDS transactions. Unlike the European commission proposal, it will not apply to bond trading.Sarkozy also announced plans to raise VAT to 21.2% from 19.6% in October to fund a cut in national insurance-type charges on companies. He hopes the changes will boost job creation and discourage French industry from moving abroad. \"We have to re-ignite growth,\" Sarkozy said. \"We have to catch up in Europe and in the world. Our market share is declining. If we continue to burden our companies with charges that aren't theirs to pay, how can we compete?\"When one journalist pointed out that prices rose in the UK after the government increased VAT, Sarkozy said: \"The United Kingdom has no industry any more.\"", "tags": ["Tobin tax", "Economics", "Banking", "Business", "Financial policy committee", "World news", "Global economy", "France", "Europe", "Nicolas Sarkozy"], "title": "France plans Tobin tax on financial transactions"},{"date": "2012-06-11T19:09:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "It looks as if Fran\u00e7ois Hollande and the French Socialist party are heading for a dominant position in the country's political structures exceeding their expectations. The results of the first round of voting for the national assembly indicate that the socialists and their allies will have a majority after next weekend's second round. Indeed it is quite possible the socialists will get a majority on their own, removing the need for compromises with smaller parties, particularly those of the hard left.This would crown the process under which the socialists have added the presidency to the already strong holdings they have in regional, local and big-city government, and in the senate. It is not a mandate that the French have bestowed on Mr Hollande with huge enthusiasm. But it nevertheless hands him an opportunity to rule and to make policy that could be of critical importance for France and for Europe. Unlike other recently elected European leaders, Mr Hollande will have some real room for manoeuvre. The key factors here are his solid domestic political base, France's unique leverage over Germany and in Brussels, and the growing perception across the continent that the austerity solution, as crudely conceived and brutally applied so far, is worsening the European economic crisis rather than helping to resolve it.France is more a part of that crisis than \u2013 under Nicolas Sarkozy, casting itself as one of the doctors rather than as one of the patients \u2013 it was prepared to admit. French firms are closing down by the week, outsourcing is undermining French employment, and the country's fiscal position is by some accounts worse than that of Italy. Some charge that his announced policies, which include cutting the deficit massively by 2017 and putting money into growth-oriented projects to achieve a spurt of 3.5% next year, are overambitious and short on detail. But Mr Hollande is known to have been working with some of the best French economists on policy changes, including those designed to halt growing inequality, that could turn the situation around.Detail is often a liability in campaigning, but it is a necessity in government. As he discloses it, and some of it will no doubt be unpalatable, Mr Hollande will have to carry a sceptical and politically weary public opinion with him while he attempts to restore the French economy, manage the relationship with Germany and rekindle French faith in Europe.He will not do it by charisma of the flamboyant kind because that is the one quality, it is widely agreed, he does not possess. But there is also a sort of charisma of normality, of perceived competence, quiet wit, sincerity and good intentions. High office can have a transforming effect and Mr Hollande is already visibly growing into his job.", "tags": ["Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's opportunity | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-06-11T19:09:48Z", "country": "france", "content": "It looks as if Fran\u00e7ois Hollande and the French Socialist party are heading for a dominant position in the country's political structures exceeding their expectations. The results of the first round of voting for the national assembly indicate that the socialists and their allies will have a majority after next weekend's second round. Indeed it is quite possible the socialists will get a majority on their own, removing the need for compromises with smaller parties, particularly those of the hard left.This would crown the process under which the socialists have added the presidency to the already strong holdings they have in regional, local and big-city government, and in the senate. It is not a mandate that the French have bestowed on Mr Hollande with huge enthusiasm. But it nevertheless hands him an opportunity to rule and to make policy that could be of critical importance for France and for Europe. Unlike other recently elected European leaders, Mr Hollande will have some real room for manoeuvre. The key factors here are his solid domestic political base, France's unique leverage over Germany and in Brussels, and the growing perception across the continent that the austerity solution, as crudely conceived and brutally applied so far, is worsening the European economic crisis rather than helping to resolve it.France is more a part of that crisis than \u2013 under Nicolas Sarkozy, casting itself as one of the doctors rather than as one of the patients \u2013 it was prepared to admit. French firms are closing down by the week, outsourcing is undermining French employment, and the country's fiscal position is by some accounts worse than that of Italy. Some charge that his announced policies, which include cutting the deficit massively by 2017 and putting money into growth-oriented projects to achieve a spurt of 3.5% next year, are overambitious and short on detail. But Mr Hollande is known to have been working with some of the best French economists on policy changes, including those designed to halt growing inequality, that could turn the situation around.Detail is often a liability in campaigning, but it is a necessity in government. As he discloses it, and some of it will no doubt be unpalatable, Mr Hollande will have to carry a sceptical and politically weary public opinion with him while he attempts to restore the French economy, manage the relationship with Germany and rekindle French faith in Europe.He will not do it by charisma of the flamboyant kind because that is the one quality, it is widely agreed, he does not possess. But there is also a sort of charisma of normality, of perceived competence, quiet wit, sincerity and good intentions. High office can have a transforming effect and Mr Hollande is already visibly growing into his job.", "tags": ["Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's opportunity | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-05-11T21:45:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "Draw a line on the map from Geneva to Chamb\u00e9ry 50 miles to the south and you mark the eastern boundary of a region that has rich resonance for British holidaymakers. Every year we flock in our thousands to the Savoie Mont Blanc region \u2013 to Alpe d'Huez, Tignes, Val d'Is\u00e8re or Courchevel \u2013 to spend days on the piste and evenings consuming vin chaud and fondue.And that will probably have been our only contact with the wines of Savoie, a wild paradise famed for its physical beauty and for its walking, cycling, boating and skiing \u2013 but not for its vineyards. And that is a shame, for Savoie whites and reds are undergoing a remarkable transformation. Once crisp and cheerful but little else, they are developing deeper, richer tones and an allure that was absent until relatively recently. Hence the decision of Savoie Mont Blanc Tourism to promote the region's wines as attractions in their own right.Savoie and its wines certainly make a heady combination. For a start, the region's grapes are rarely encountered elsewhere: Altesse and Jacqu\u00e8re produce exotic, fruity dry whites; Mondeuse makes rich, slightly peppery reds. For good measure, they are grown in some of the most beautiful settings I have encountered. At Chignin, for example, the vineyards \u2013 carved out of high, rocky slopes \u2013 are dominated by four ancient, ruined towers, each draped in a thick layer of ivy. So steep are the hillside terraces that grass is planted in strips between the vines to stop the soil being washed away. On my visit, on a sunny afternoon in autumn, with the towers rising above these undulating vineyards, the place had a relaxed, magical allure.But it is the wines that matter. Until recently, both whites and reds were made and sold fairly cheaply: to be swigged with raclette or mixed with sugar, spice and lemon to make vin chaud. Now the region's winemakers have made a deliberate decision to take more care: producing fewer bunches of grapes from each vine, using less fertiliser, and slowing fermentation by keeping the tanks cool.\"If you let your fermentation run too fast, you lose aroma. You need to keep it slow,\" says Pierre Abry of the Cave de Chautagne (+33 4 7954 2712, cave-de-chautagne.com) at Ruffieux, where the local wine co-operative has built a museum dedicated to local wines. Visitors can taste the grapes and compare their bouquets. Explanations were in French when I was there, but English versions are promised for this year.The message is that quality has triumphed over quantity. A good example is provided by the Chautagne Blanc, produced at the Ruffieux co-op. It has a clean, slightly flinty taste and makes a fine aperitif. Similarly, the Chignin 2010 of Jean-Fran\u00e7ois Qu\u00e9nard's Domaine Qu\u00e9nard (+33 4 7928 0829, jfquenard.com) at Chignin is delicate and slightly honeyed, while Christophe Richel's Mondeuse (+33 6 8020 7594) is a deep red, rich wine with a velvety, violet-scented taste. Richel is a huge, friendly bear of man \u2013 he could be a flanker for a French rugby team \u2013 and will chat until the cows come home about his wine. His tasting cellar, like those of most Savoie producers, is cosy and clubbable.\"We want people to be surprised at how good our wines are,\" says Pascal Barlet, whose family business, Les Caves du Prieur\u00e9 (+33 4 7944 0222, caveduprieure.com), produces one of the region's special wines: Cuv\u00e9e Eole. This is a distinctive sweet white made from early-harvested Altesse grapes that are left for months before pressing so their sugar content builds up.A relaxed approach to wine appreciation is also easy in a region with such rugged charm. Lac du Bourget, a few kilometres north of Chamb\u00e9ry, is the largest natural lake in France: you can take a boat trip on it in the morning (from the town of Aix-les-Bains, +33 4 7963 4500, gwel.com, adult \u20ac11.80, child 4-12 \u20ac8.20), then visit a vineyard in the afternoon. Or hire a bike \u2013 there are electric ones to help on the hills \u2013 and follow a vineyard tour arranged by the tourist office (Chamb\u00e9ry V\u00e9lostation (chambery-metropole.fr/83-velostation.htm, \u20ac3 for a half-day's hire, or \u20ac6 for an electric bike). Or you can, as we did, hire a 2CV (+33 6 8160 7316, lesdeuchesdulac.fr, \u20ac190 a day for two people), the original lunch-box on wheels, chauffeured by a driver in full Maurice Chevalier kit, including striped blazer and straw boater. It's a cramped, unbelievably lightweight way to travel but it is relatively eco-friendly. Hit a rabbit and you come off second best.Despite this Gallic image-making, Savoie Mont Blanc has a strong Italian feel. Victor Emmanuel II, the first king of Italy, came from the House of Savoy; Italy's last king, Umberto II, is buried here, at Hautecombe Abbey; and Italy's most famous relic, the Turin shroud, was kept for many years in the cathedral at Chamb\u00e9ry, capital of the d\u00e9partement.Chamb\u00e9ry is small and stylish, with narrow streets and Italian-style porticos. Income from Savoie's ski resorts has brought a prosperous, confident edge. Restaurants are lavish but fairly casual. Try Le Bistrot (6 rue du Th\u00e9\u00e2tre, +33 4 7975 1078, restaurant-lebistrot.com, mains from \u20ac15); L'Atelier (59 rue de la R\u00e9publique, +33 4 7970 6239, atelier-chambery.com, mains from \u20ac15); and C\u00f4t\u00e9 March\u00e9 (60 rue Vieille Monnaie, +33 4 7985 0435, cotemarche-restaurant.com, three-course menu from \u20ac37). At Jongieux, 30km north \u2013 near the Caves du Prieur\u00e9 and Domaine Edmond Jacquin (+33 4 7944 0235, vin-savoie-ejf.fr) \u2013 there's the Michelin-starred Les Moraini\u00e8res (route de Mar\u00e9tel, +33 4 7944 0939, les-morainieres.com, four-course menu from \u20ac45).For a place to stay in Chamb\u00e9ry, the Hotel des Princes (4 rue de Boigne, +33 4 7933 4536, hoteldesprinces.eu, doubles from \u20ac88) has comfortable rooms. Best, however, is Chateau des Allues (+33 6 7538 6156, chateaudesallues.com, B&B doubles from \u20ac120) near St-Pierre-d'Albigny, outside Chamb\u00e9ry, which offers stunning opulence at B&B prices. This is one of the best hotel bargains I have come across. Try it, try the local food \u2013 but most of all try the wines of Savoie.\u2022 The trip was provided by Savoie Mont Blanc tourist board (savoiemontblanc.com), with Eurostar/TGV travel from Rail Europe (0844 848 4070, raileurope.co.uk, returns to Chamb\u00e9ry from \u00a3109). For information on wines, see vindesavoie.net. Buy Savoie wines online from Snooth (snooth.com) or Yapp Brothers (yapp.co.uk)", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Travel", "Food & drink", "Wine", "Life and style", "Wine holidays"], "title": "Wine tours in Savoie, France"},{"date": "2012-09-28T20:06:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "Rigour, austerity and recession are out. Combat, exceptional measures and solidarity are in. With those costume changes, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande has just delivered the toughest budget in 30 years. But he has done what he said he would do. He hit the super-rich with a 75% tax. It will only affect a symbolic number of taxpayers, about 2,000 in all, but in a country which has turned its back on bling-bling presidents, Mr Hollande is sticking to his script. Two thirds of the \u20ac30bn the French public purse has to recoup will come from tax rises \u2013 a percentage that would have Ed Balls exiting stage right \u2013 and one third from a public spending freeze.The larger question is whether French austerity will prove any less counterproductive than the Greek, Spanish or Portuguese ones have been. The assumptions on which this budget are based are balanced on a hairpin \u2013 0.8% growth? In combative mood, prime minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said this target was both realistic and ambitious, but it appears to be more ambitious than realistic. It is a leap in the dark, but a government has to make a plan, and \u2013 in dark times like these \u2013 there is no well-lit way to jump. As Labour assembles in Manchester, Mr Balls ought to reflect that uncertainty about the future dogs social democrats when they come to office. In these circumstances of wild flux, the single most important thing to hang on to is flexibility to respond to events. Rushing to repeat the sort of restrictive spending commitments made ahead of the 1997 election at this stage in the game would be a mistake.Already the French government has been forced to concede that France will not be out of the red by 2017. The remaining hope that the public deficit can be reduced from its current level of 4.5% to 3% of GDP in conditions where the economy is stagnating continues to strain credibility. Even in good times, such a cut would represent a considerable heave. To achieve this, Mr Hollande would have to pull off public-sector reforms that both of his conservative predecessors, Nicolas Sarkozy and Jacques Chirac, ducked.There remain, too, fundamental concerns about the direction of travel. The central charge against European leaders is they are attempting to counter deflation with deflationary policies. That is not just a point made by the Paul Krugmans of this world. It is now being made by the IMF. By hurting the near-term growth outlook, tighter fiscal policy could be leading to wider rather than narrower spreads over German bonds. Especially so if it involved an outright decline in the overall size of the economy. Killing the economy while raising debt will not work. Seen from this perspective, Hollande's budget is ameliorative but it is hardly a radical departure.Borrowing at cheap rates of interest, France is petrified of another Moody's downgrade. Any jacking up of the rate to Spanish levels would push these finely balanced budget projections over a cliff. Mr Ayrault has argued that if they abandoned the 3% target, France would become Italy and Spain overnight. The black hole in Spain's banking sector was declared to be \u20ac59.3bn, which caused sighs of relief because it could have been worse . But the more essential your economy is to the euro, the better terms you can demand. A Spanish premier is always going to have a louder voice in Brussels than that of a Greek premier. If France ever needed a bailout, it could demand one on better terms.Mr Hollande is to be applauded for sharing the burden on the people who can most afford to pay it. But he remains a hostage to fortune. With over 3 million unemployed, he has no leeway for failure. It is not his fault, but it is the legacy he has taken on. If small French companies who have been spared the pain in this budget don't start hiring, and soon, France will have increased debt and declining means to pay it.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2012. The original used \"effect' where \"affect' was meant.", "tags": ["France", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France: no leeway for failure"},{"date": "2012-09-28T20:06:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "Rigour, austerity and recession are out. Combat, exceptional measures and solidarity are in. With those costume changes, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande has just delivered the toughest budget in 30 years. But he has done what he said he would do. He hit the super-rich with a 75% tax. It will only affect a symbolic number of taxpayers, about 2,000 in all, but in a country which has turned its back on bling-bling presidents, Mr Hollande is sticking to his script. Two thirds of the \u20ac30bn the French public purse has to recoup will come from tax rises \u2013 a percentage that would have Ed Balls exiting stage right \u2013 and one third from a public spending freeze.The larger question is whether French austerity will prove any less counterproductive than the Greek, Spanish or Portuguese ones have been. The assumptions on which this budget are based are balanced on a hairpin \u2013 0.8% growth? In combative mood, prime minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said this target was both realistic and ambitious, but it appears to be more ambitious than realistic. It is a leap in the dark, but a government has to make a plan, and \u2013 in dark times like these \u2013 there is no well-lit way to jump. As Labour assembles in Manchester, Mr Balls ought to reflect that uncertainty about the future dogs social democrats when they come to office. In these circumstances of wild flux, the single most important thing to hang on to is flexibility to respond to events. Rushing to repeat the sort of restrictive spending commitments made ahead of the 1997 election at this stage in the game would be a mistake.Already the French government has been forced to concede that France will not be out of the red by 2017. The remaining hope that the public deficit can be reduced from its current level of 4.5% to 3% of GDP in conditions where the economy is stagnating continues to strain credibility. Even in good times, such a cut would represent a considerable heave. To achieve this, Mr Hollande would have to pull off public-sector reforms that both of his conservative predecessors, Nicolas Sarkozy and Jacques Chirac, ducked.There remain, too, fundamental concerns about the direction of travel. The central charge against European leaders is they are attempting to counter deflation with deflationary policies. That is not just a point made by the Paul Krugmans of this world. It is now being made by the IMF. By hurting the near-term growth outlook, tighter fiscal policy could be leading to wider rather than narrower spreads over German bonds. Especially so if it involved an outright decline in the overall size of the economy. Killing the economy while raising debt will not work. Seen from this perspective, Hollande's budget is ameliorative but it is hardly a radical departure.Borrowing at cheap rates of interest, France is petrified of another Moody's downgrade. Any jacking up of the rate to Spanish levels would push these finely balanced budget projections over a cliff. Mr Ayrault has argued that if they abandoned the 3% target, France would become Italy and Spain overnight. The black hole in Spain's banking sector was declared to be \u20ac59.3bn, which caused sighs of relief because it could have been worse . But the more essential your economy is to the euro, the better terms you can demand. A Spanish premier is always going to have a louder voice in Brussels than that of a Greek premier. If France ever needed a bailout, it could demand one on better terms.Mr Hollande is to be applauded for sharing the burden on the people who can most afford to pay it. But he remains a hostage to fortune. With over 3 million unemployed, he has no leeway for failure. It is not his fault, but it is the legacy he has taken on. If small French companies who have been spared the pain in this budget don't start hiring, and soon, France will have increased debt and declining means to pay it.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2012. The original used \"effect' where \"affect' was meant.", "tags": ["France", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France: no leeway for failure"},{"date": "2012-07-05T22:09:41Z", "country": "france", "content": "It's not called austerity, or even rigour. Instead, plans to raise \u20ac7.2bn on taxing the rich, be they big businesses or the richest households, all fall under the rubric of a \"fair\" effort, \"just\" budgetary discipline, \"fairly redressing\" the nation's finances. Give Fran\u00e7ois Hollande and his prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, their due. They are doing exactly what they told the French they would do, and what they are doing is proving to be popular.Measures such as a 75% tax on people who earn over \u20ac1m get approval ratings of 76% \u2013 including 49% of those who voted for the centre-right UMP. Similar high approval ratings greet the other measures he has announced, such as cutting his own salary, capping the salaries of heads of public enterprises and creating 60,000 jobs in education. Hollande's centre-left government is riding a wave of public opinion, not merely the aftermath of elections that give socialists an absolute majority.There are several reasons why Hollande must succeed. To start at home, Britain is moving in the opposite direction. When it was signalled in advance that the top tax rate would go up to 50p, bankers took their bonuses early. Now that George Osborne is taking it down to 45p from next year, the bonuses are being deferred, so that the period of time when a 50p rate has operated is kept as mercifully short as possible.Not only that. David Cameron is positioning Britain as a home for French tax exiles, for whom he wants to roll out the red carpet. When Hollande first announced the 75% tax, the financial daily Les Echos illustrated a report on whether there would be an exodus of the rich with pictures of South Kensington and a Learjet on the runway. British public opinion on this issue differs little from the French. In an era in which getting rich has little to do with wealth or job creation, the rich are seen as the ultimate self-caterers. A Hollande success would reveal the true loyalties or failings of successive British prime ministers.This week was about amending or reversing measures in a budget largely fixed by Nicolas Sarkozy. The deeper tax reforms will come next year. But so too will the hard stuff: spending cuts. Hollande has pledged both to increase the numbers of posts in education, and to freeze total public spending. With a \u20ac40bn hole to fill over the next two years, real cuts will have to come. From which ministries the government refuses to say. But this week was also about symbols. Another sign of changed times was the police raid on Sarkozy's home and offices, as part of an investigation into allegations of illegal campaign funding from France's richest woman, the L'Or\u00e9al heiress Liliane Bettencourt. The era of being intensely relaxed about the filthy rich is over \u2013 even if they pay their taxes.", "tags": ["Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Tax and spending", "Global recession", "Economic policy", "Economics", "Politics", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France: \u00e9crasez l'inf\u00e2me | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-09-28T20:06:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "Rigour, austerity and recession are out. Combat, exceptional measures and solidarity are in. With those costume changes, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande has just delivered the toughest budget in 30 years. But he has done what he said he would do. He hit the super-rich with a 75% tax. It will only affect a symbolic number of taxpayers, about 2,000 in all, but in a country which has turned its back on bling-bling presidents, Mr Hollande is sticking to his script. Two thirds of the \u20ac30bn the French public purse has to recoup will come from tax rises \u2013 a percentage that would have Ed Balls exiting stage right \u2013 and one third from a public spending freeze.The larger question is whether French austerity will prove any less counterproductive than the Greek, Spanish or Portuguese ones have been. The assumptions on which this budget are based are balanced on a hairpin \u2013 0.8% growth? In combative mood, prime minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said this target was both realistic and ambitious, but it appears to be more ambitious than realistic. It is a leap in the dark, but a government has to make a plan, and \u2013 in dark times like these \u2013 there is no well-lit way to jump. As Labour assembles in Manchester, Mr Balls ought to reflect that uncertainty about the future dogs social democrats when they come to office. In these circumstances of wild flux, the single most important thing to hang on to is flexibility to respond to events. Rushing to repeat the sort of restrictive spending commitments made ahead of the 1997 election at this stage in the game would be a mistake.Already the French government has been forced to concede that France will not be out of the red by 2017. The remaining hope that the public deficit can be reduced from its current level of 4.5% to 3% of GDP in conditions where the economy is stagnating continues to strain credibility. Even in good times, such a cut would represent a considerable heave. To achieve this, Mr Hollande would have to pull off public-sector reforms that both of his conservative predecessors, Nicolas Sarkozy and Jacques Chirac, ducked.There remain, too, fundamental concerns about the direction of travel. The central charge against European leaders is they are attempting to counter deflation with deflationary policies. That is not just a point made by the Paul Krugmans of this world. It is now being made by the IMF. By hurting the near-term growth outlook, tighter fiscal policy could be leading to wider rather than narrower spreads over German bonds. Especially so if it involved an outright decline in the overall size of the economy. Killing the economy while raising debt will not work. Seen from this perspective, Hollande's budget is ameliorative but it is hardly a radical departure.Borrowing at cheap rates of interest, France is petrified of another Moody's downgrade. Any jacking up of the rate to Spanish levels would push these finely balanced budget projections over a cliff. Mr Ayrault has argued that if they abandoned the 3% target, France would become Italy and Spain overnight. The black hole in Spain's banking sector was declared to be \u20ac59.3bn, which caused sighs of relief because it could have been worse . But the more essential your economy is to the euro, the better terms you can demand. A Spanish premier is always going to have a louder voice in Brussels than that of a Greek premier. If France ever needed a bailout, it could demand one on better terms.Mr Hollande is to be applauded for sharing the burden on the people who can most afford to pay it. But he remains a hostage to fortune. With over 3 million unemployed, he has no leeway for failure. It is not his fault, but it is the legacy he has taken on. If small French companies who have been spared the pain in this budget don't start hiring, and soon, France will have increased debt and declining means to pay it.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2012. The original used \"effect' where \"affect' was meant.", "tags": ["France", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France: no leeway for failure"},{"date": "2012-07-05T22:09:41Z", "country": "france", "content": "It's not called austerity, or even rigour. Instead, plans to raise \u20ac7.2bn on taxing the rich, be they big businesses or the richest households, all fall under the rubric of a \"fair\" effort, \"just\" budgetary discipline, \"fairly redressing\" the nation's finances. Give Fran\u00e7ois Hollande and his prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, their due. They are doing exactly what they told the French they would do, and what they are doing is proving to be popular.Measures such as a 75% tax on people who earn over \u20ac1m get approval ratings of 76% \u2013 including 49% of those who voted for the centre-right UMP. Similar high approval ratings greet the other measures he has announced, such as cutting his own salary, capping the salaries of heads of public enterprises and creating 60,000 jobs in education. Hollande's centre-left government is riding a wave of public opinion, not merely the aftermath of elections that give socialists an absolute majority.There are several reasons why Hollande must succeed. To start at home, Britain is moving in the opposite direction. When it was signalled in advance that the top tax rate would go up to 50p, bankers took their bonuses early. Now that George Osborne is taking it down to 45p from next year, the bonuses are being deferred, so that the period of time when a 50p rate has operated is kept as mercifully short as possible.Not only that. David Cameron is positioning Britain as a home for French tax exiles, for whom he wants to roll out the red carpet. When Hollande first announced the 75% tax, the financial daily Les Echos illustrated a report on whether there would be an exodus of the rich with pictures of South Kensington and a Learjet on the runway. British public opinion on this issue differs little from the French. In an era in which getting rich has little to do with wealth or job creation, the rich are seen as the ultimate self-caterers. A Hollande success would reveal the true loyalties or failings of successive British prime ministers.This week was about amending or reversing measures in a budget largely fixed by Nicolas Sarkozy. The deeper tax reforms will come next year. But so too will the hard stuff: spending cuts. Hollande has pledged both to increase the numbers of posts in education, and to freeze total public spending. With a \u20ac40bn hole to fill over the next two years, real cuts will have to come. From which ministries the government refuses to say. But this week was also about symbols. Another sign of changed times was the police raid on Sarkozy's home and offices, as part of an investigation into allegations of illegal campaign funding from France's richest woman, the L'Or\u00e9al heiress Liliane Bettencourt. The era of being intensely relaxed about the filthy rich is over \u2013 even if they pay their taxes.", "tags": ["Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Tax and spending", "Global recession", "Economic policy", "Economics", "Politics", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France: \u00e9crasez l'inf\u00e2me | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-07-25T10:51:58Z", "country": "france", "content": "The end has finally come for the Paris-based daily, France Soir. The city's commercial court ordered its liquidation, ruling that its assets must be auctioned off.The paper's proprietor, Alexander Pugachyov - son of Russian billionaire Sergei Pugachyov - abandoned France Soir in June after having invested about \u00a360m in the paper (plus \u00a38m in state aid) since acquiring it in March 2010. He shut down the print operation last December in favour of a web-only version, dismissing 180 employees. The bankruptcy means that a further 49 people, including 42 journalists, will lose their jobs.The only genuine offer to buy the assets has been made by Robert Lafont, CEO of the Lafont Presse. But huge debts meant bankruptcy was inevitable.France Soir was launched in 1944, before the end of the second world war as D\u00e9fense de la France. In the 1950s, its daily circulation reached 1.5m, which fell to less than 100,000 by 2000. Sources: FollowTheMedia/Moscow Times/Wikipedia", "tags": ["Media", "Newspaper closures", "France", "Newspapers", "Media downturn", "Russia", "Media business"], "title": "Au revoir to France Soir"},{"date": "2012-09-28T20:06:15Z", "country": "france", "content": "Rigour, austerity and recession are out. Combat, exceptional measures and solidarity are in. With those costume changes, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande has just delivered the toughest budget in 30 years. But he has done what he said he would do. He hit the super-rich with a 75% tax. It will only affect a symbolic number of taxpayers, about 2,000 in all, but in a country which has turned its back on bling-bling presidents, Mr Hollande is sticking to his script. Two thirds of the \u20ac30bn the French public purse has to recoup will come from tax rises \u2013 a percentage that would have Ed Balls exiting stage right \u2013 and one third from a public spending freeze.The larger question is whether French austerity will prove any less counterproductive than the Greek, Spanish or Portuguese ones have been. The assumptions on which this budget are based are balanced on a hairpin \u2013 0.8% growth? In combative mood, prime minister Jean-Marc Ayrault said this target was both realistic and ambitious, but it appears to be more ambitious than realistic. It is a leap in the dark, but a government has to make a plan, and \u2013 in dark times like these \u2013 there is no well-lit way to jump. As Labour assembles in Manchester, Mr Balls ought to reflect that uncertainty about the future dogs social democrats when they come to office. In these circumstances of wild flux, the single most important thing to hang on to is flexibility to respond to events. Rushing to repeat the sort of restrictive spending commitments made ahead of the 1997 election at this stage in the game would be a mistake.Already the French government has been forced to concede that France will not be out of the red by 2017. The remaining hope that the public deficit can be reduced from its current level of 4.5% to 3% of GDP in conditions where the economy is stagnating continues to strain credibility. Even in good times, such a cut would represent a considerable heave. To achieve this, Mr Hollande would have to pull off public-sector reforms that both of his conservative predecessors, Nicolas Sarkozy and Jacques Chirac, ducked.There remain, too, fundamental concerns about the direction of travel. The central charge against European leaders is they are attempting to counter deflation with deflationary policies. That is not just a point made by the Paul Krugmans of this world. It is now being made by the IMF. By hurting the near-term growth outlook, tighter fiscal policy could be leading to wider rather than narrower spreads over German bonds. Especially so if it involved an outright decline in the overall size of the economy. Killing the economy while raising debt will not work. Seen from this perspective, Hollande's budget is ameliorative but it is hardly a radical departure.Borrowing at cheap rates of interest, France is petrified of another Moody's downgrade. Any jacking up of the rate to Spanish levels would push these finely balanced budget projections over a cliff. Mr Ayrault has argued that if they abandoned the 3% target, France would become Italy and Spain overnight. The black hole in Spain's banking sector was declared to be \u20ac59.3bn, which caused sighs of relief because it could have been worse . But the more essential your economy is to the euro, the better terms you can demand. A Spanish premier is always going to have a louder voice in Brussels than that of a Greek premier. If France ever needed a bailout, it could demand one on better terms.Mr Hollande is to be applauded for sharing the burden on the people who can most afford to pay it. But he remains a hostage to fortune. With over 3 million unemployed, he has no leeway for failure. It is not his fault, but it is the legacy he has taken on. If small French companies who have been spared the pain in this budget don't start hiring, and soon, France will have increased debt and declining means to pay it.\u2022 This article was amended on 1 October 2012. The original used \"effect' where \"affect' was meant.", "tags": ["France", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "Euro", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France: no leeway for failure"},{"date": "2012-07-05T22:09:41Z", "country": "france", "content": "It's not called austerity, or even rigour. Instead, plans to raise \u20ac7.2bn on taxing the rich, be they big businesses or the richest households, all fall under the rubric of a \"fair\" effort, \"just\" budgetary discipline, \"fairly redressing\" the nation's finances. Give Fran\u00e7ois Hollande and his prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, their due. They are doing exactly what they told the French they would do, and what they are doing is proving to be popular.Measures such as a 75% tax on people who earn over \u20ac1m get approval ratings of 76% \u2013 including 49% of those who voted for the centre-right UMP. Similar high approval ratings greet the other measures he has announced, such as cutting his own salary, capping the salaries of heads of public enterprises and creating 60,000 jobs in education. Hollande's centre-left government is riding a wave of public opinion, not merely the aftermath of elections that give socialists an absolute majority.There are several reasons why Hollande must succeed. To start at home, Britain is moving in the opposite direction. When it was signalled in advance that the top tax rate would go up to 50p, bankers took their bonuses early. Now that George Osborne is taking it down to 45p from next year, the bonuses are being deferred, so that the period of time when a 50p rate has operated is kept as mercifully short as possible.Not only that. David Cameron is positioning Britain as a home for French tax exiles, for whom he wants to roll out the red carpet. When Hollande first announced the 75% tax, the financial daily Les Echos illustrated a report on whether there would be an exodus of the rich with pictures of South Kensington and a Learjet on the runway. British public opinion on this issue differs little from the French. In an era in which getting rich has little to do with wealth or job creation, the rich are seen as the ultimate self-caterers. A Hollande success would reveal the true loyalties or failings of successive British prime ministers.This week was about amending or reversing measures in a budget largely fixed by Nicolas Sarkozy. The deeper tax reforms will come next year. But so too will the hard stuff: spending cuts. Hollande has pledged both to increase the numbers of posts in education, and to freeze total public spending. With a \u20ac40bn hole to fill over the next two years, real cuts will have to come. From which ministries the government refuses to say. But this week was also about symbols. Another sign of changed times was the police raid on Sarkozy's home and offices, as part of an investigation into allegations of illegal campaign funding from France's richest woman, the L'Or\u00e9al heiress Liliane Bettencourt. The era of being intensely relaxed about the filthy rich is over \u2013 even if they pay their taxes.", "tags": ["Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Tax and spending", "Global recession", "Economic policy", "Economics", "Politics", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France: \u00e9crasez l'inf\u00e2me | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-07-25T10:51:58Z", "country": "france", "content": "The end has finally come for the Paris-based daily, France Soir. The city's commercial court ordered its liquidation, ruling that its assets must be auctioned off.The paper's proprietor, Alexander Pugachyov - son of Russian billionaire Sergei Pugachyov - abandoned France Soir in June after having invested about \u00a360m in the paper (plus \u00a38m in state aid) since acquiring it in March 2010. He shut down the print operation last December in favour of a web-only version, dismissing 180 employees. The bankruptcy means that a further 49 people, including 42 journalists, will lose their jobs.The only genuine offer to buy the assets has been made by Robert Lafont, CEO of the Lafont Presse. But huge debts meant bankruptcy was inevitable.France Soir was launched in 1944, before the end of the second world war as D\u00e9fense de la France. In the 1950s, its daily circulation reached 1.5m, which fell to less than 100,000 by 2000. Sources: FollowTheMedia/Moscow Times/Wikipedia", "tags": ["Media", "Newspaper closures", "France", "Newspapers", "Media downturn", "Russia", "Media business"], "title": "Au revoir to France Soir"},{"date": "2012-07-16T07:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "This fabulous archipelago is barely populated, car-free, breezy and sunny \u2013 a timeless place of great beauty. There are a couple of g\u00eetes and little shops, and a fair few yachting visitors. Weathered rocks, deserted shorelines, beaches and pools teeming with life are all great for kids. Daily ferries in summer from Granville: adults \u20ac24.50, three-14 years \u20ac15.35, under-threes \u20ac7.60.ville-granville.fr/en/iles_chausey.asp sometimestoryLe Grand HotelImmortalised by Proust in A La Recherche du Temps Perdu, this elegant 19th-century hotel was also home to the writer for several months in 1907. It was originally a casino, and today guests can luxuriate in splendour in rooms offering sweeping views across the Channel. +33 2 31 91 01 79, accorhotels.commissmarple0512D-Day cycle tourListed in Lonely Planet's Cycling in France, this circular route starts and ends in historic Bayeux. From here, pedal down lonely roads to Omaha beach and the moving American Cemetery. Stop for lunch in pretty Port-en-Bessin-Huppain before heading along the coast to Arromanche, where the cin\u00e9ma circulaire offers 360-degree images of the local area, interspersed with clips of the same spots during the war, giving a very different picture of this idyllic and peaceful area.memorial-caen.frrhiannonabikeLe Pont de NormandieAt 2,143m, the Pont de Normandie was the longest cable-stayed bridge in the world when it was completed in 1995. The Japanese built a longer one in 1999, but that doesn't diminish the impact of this spectacular example of the French ability to meld engineering with art. For one of the best views in Normandy, take a ferry to Le Havre, and bring your bike: the toll bridge has its own cycle lane. The steep hump in the middle will keep you on your toes, but the panorama is worth it. At the other end, enjoy a calvados or cidre by Honfleur's pretty harbour. lizcleereLa Cidrerie bar and creperieIt would be a crime against gastronomy to visit Normandy without sampling the famous cider and galettes (savoury crepes). Nestled between Honfleur's scenic Vieux Bassin harbour and wooden Sainte-Catherine cathedral, La Cidrerie has friendly service, affordable prices and fantastic crepes. If you have a sweet tooth the cr\u00eape caramel au beurre sal\u00e9 is a surprisingly tasty regional delicacy.creperie-lacidrerie-honfleur.comjimmywalker390Christian Dior museumThe home of the creator of the New Look, now a museum, is perched on cliffs in this Cotentin town. It has an ever-changing, stunning exhibition of Dior's work, but the real gem is the perfume garden, in which iconic fragrances in leafy, hidden corners can be guessed and enjoyed before a vertiginous descent down crumbling steps to the wide promenade and the vast beach.musee-dior-granville.comgouldiniMont-Saint-Michel abbey and museumsFor all the hype and crowds, Mont-Saint-Michel is beautiful and well worth a visit. If you are under 25 you can get into the abbey for free, and get half-price entry to the four museums. But be warned \u2013 you will need to prove your age with your passport. If you leave it in the car (like I did) you'll have to decide if walking back down and then back up again is worth the \u20ac18 saving!Porte de l'avanc\u00e9e, +33 2 3360 1430, ot-montsaintmichel.com/en/accueil.htmJimwockoCh\u00e2teau de Monfr\u00e9villeLocated in the national park at the base of the Cotentin peninsula near Isigny-sur-Mer, Ch\u00e2teau de Monfr\u00e9ville is home to Paul, Zoe and family, who look after visitors with kindness and good humour. There are ducks, geese, hens and chickens, and the family grows organic vegetables. You can stay in the chateau, a g\u00eete or roulotte (Gypsy caravan), or camp. It's handy for Bayeux, Mont St Michel and the coast.+33 2 3121 3542, chateaumonfreville.comgrahamjgreenCerza Safari LodgeAt this safari park you can stay in a lodge, yurt or \"zoobservatory\". From the balcony you can watch the exotic animals and sunset over the lake (with a glass of wine) while the children interact with free-roaming deer and wallabies. The gibbons, rhinos and antelope enclosures are just a few metres away, and for \u20ac69 for six people you can get closer to the animals with a behind-the-scenes tour. +33 2 3131 8230, cerzasafarilodge.combeckywooThe Saint Maclou ossuary A beautiful ancient courtyard with timber-frame houses, but on closer inspection you will spot human skulls carved into the wood. It was a plague graveyard in the middle ages and recalls how two-thirds of the town's people succumbed to this fate.188 rue Martainvillepharrop01", "tags": ["Normandy holidays", "France holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks"], "title": "Readers' travel tips: Normandy, France"},{"date": "2012-11-04T00:05:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Things are beginning to warm up nicely. It's late October and people have been breathing clouds of fog into the crisp autumn air all morning. Now shafts of sunlight are beginning to hit the cobbles, creep along the half-timbered houses and animate the crowd assembled in the village square for a f\u00eate.We are in Labastide d'Armagnac, an hour and a half down the road from Bordeaux in southwest France where, every year, over the last weekend in October, l'Armagnac en F\u00eate celebrates the end of the grape harvest and the beginning of the distilling season for the world's oldest eau de vie.All the ingredients for a proper country knees-up appear to be in place in the village square. This is the ancient domain of Gascony, France's poster region for the good life with its rolling hills, terracotta-roofed stone houses, country-table cooking and its connection to the soil through grape and game. In the square, groups huddle around vintners' stands, sampling the wines and spirits from local vines; a male-voice choir of former rugby players is belting out ballads in front of the town hall; people slurp down bowls of garbure \u2013 the local vegetable broth \u2013 at communal tables under the colonnades; and pyramids of preserves and conserves rise up from trestles presided over by ruddy-faced farmers. The local gastronomy is rightly celebrated for its rustic style. But it is also home to two of the world's most renowned and, some would argue, refined, ingredients: oak-aged armagnac and the controversial foie gras.Everyone knows how foie gras is made and you take your stand on it. The process of making armagnac is much more discreet, and is almost as complex as the cumbersome-looking machine that distills it. One of these \u2013 an alambic \u2013 sits in the corner of the village square for all comers to inspect. It resembles an early prototype of Stephenson's Rocket, a\u00a0pair of copper boilers and a network of pipes on wheels.Even now, mobile stills like this are towed through country lanes and rented out to vineyards and farms \u2013 rather like combine harvesters \u2013 to distill their grapes into eau de vie, which is then left to mature in barrels made from local oak.The production of armagnac has remained traditional and artisanal \u2013 there's a single distillation from four typical varieties of grapes and no sugars or sulphites are allowed to be added. In his culinary reminiscence, Memories of Gascony, master chef Pierre Koffmann recalls how peasant farmers, like his grandfather in the 1950s, would hire a local bouilleur, whose alambic was drawn by a pair of cows, to make their rations of armagnac \u2013 they were allowed 20 litres per household back then.It hasn't always been seen as a\u00a0posh person's tipple, and when you drive through the countryside of the Armagnac appellation \u2013 which stretches from the departement of the Gers to the Landes \u2013 you still see farms advertising armagnac alongside the less-refined floc de Gascogne, which is a mixture of newly pressed grapes and young armagnac.To make quality armagnac, the eau de vie has to be left in oak barrels for anything from four to 30 years until it turns gold, so it's an investment for the producers and the buyers. Bottles of the famous Francis Darroze armagnac from Roquefort, for example, can cost from \u00a335 for an eight-year-old to \u00a3600 and upwards for an 80-year-old. But, as his son Marc Darroze says, you're not exactly going to chuck the stuff back. \"You mustn't jump on armagnac. You have to reflect upon it. It is a mixture of gentleness and violence.\"That's a pretty accurate description. It's aggressive stuff \u2013 around 40% volume \u2013 and I'm not getting those \"top notes of cinnamon, leather, vanilla or white chocolate\" from my first tasting. What I am getting is a fire down the hole \u2013 which is a pleasant enough sensation on such a cold day.The flame that today lights the fires under stills that have produced armagnac in Gascony for more than 700 years is lit at the heart of Labastide D'Armagnac, and passes through village f\u00eates all over Gascony during November. It's rather like the Olympic torch going on a booze run, and it is accompanied by musketeers on horseback. Gascony was the birthplace of the Comte d'Artagnan, the captain of the king's guard, who inspired Alexandre Dumas to write his swashbuckling novel, The Three Musketeers.There are more than 300 producers of brandy in the Armagnac appellation, and many of them are small-scale, family-run affairs. As chance would have it, one of these producers, the Montesquiou family, who own the Domaine d'Esp\u00e9rance, are believed to be distant relations of d'Artagnan. It's too good an opportunity to pass up, so I drive west through a landscape upon which stillness and silence have descended \u2013 the fields of sandy-clay soil have been ploughed and there are only russet and gold leaves left on the black strings of the vines.I am met at the gates of the estate by Jean-Louis Montesquiou, who can trace his family roots in the region back to the 10th century. He shows me around vast cellars stacked to the rafters with 400-litre oak barrels, and high to the heavens with the smell of the evaporating spirit \u2013 the natural wastage in the armagnac process is known as la part des anges (the angels' share).Jean-Louis is a charming and bookish soul, who couldn't be more different to his rapier-thrusting ancestor. Armagnac, I'm reminded, is a mixture of gentleness and violence, and I proceed to get drunk. One for all and all for one!EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies to Bordeaux or Toulouse from \u00a328.99 one-way, or go by train from London to Agen through loco2.com from \u00a361 one-way. Car hire in France, through sixt.co.uk, costs from \u00a329.43 a day. Stay at C\u00f4t\u00e9 Remparts, Condom (cote-remparts.com). Rooms cost from \u20ac83 for two. For more information on armagnac, go to armagnac.fr. For more information on France, go to franceguide.com", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Short breaks"], "title": "Brandy galore in France"},{"date": "2012-11-04T00:05:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Things are beginning to warm up nicely. It's late October and people have been breathing clouds of fog into the crisp autumn air all morning. Now shafts of sunlight are beginning to hit the cobbles, creep along the half-timbered houses and animate the crowd assembled in the village square for a f\u00eate.We are in Labastide d'Armagnac, an hour and a half down the road from Bordeaux in southwest France where, every year, over the last weekend in October, l'Armagnac en F\u00eate celebrates the end of the grape harvest and the beginning of the distilling season for the world's oldest eau de vie.All the ingredients for a proper country knees-up appear to be in place in the village square. This is the ancient domain of Gascony, France's poster region for the good life with its rolling hills, terracotta-roofed stone houses, country-table cooking and its connection to the soil through grape and game. In the square, groups huddle around vintners' stands, sampling the wines and spirits from local vines; a male-voice choir of former rugby players is belting out ballads in front of the town hall; people slurp down bowls of garbure \u2013 the local vegetable broth \u2013 at communal tables under the colonnades; and pyramids of preserves and conserves rise up from trestles presided over by ruddy-faced farmers. The local gastronomy is rightly celebrated for its rustic style. But it is also home to two of the world's most renowned and, some would argue, refined, ingredients: oak-aged armagnac and the controversial foie gras.Everyone knows how foie gras is made and you take your stand on it. The process of making armagnac is much more discreet, and is almost as complex as the cumbersome-looking machine that distills it. One of these \u2013 an alambic \u2013 sits in the corner of the village square for all comers to inspect. It resembles an early prototype of Stephenson's Rocket, a\u00a0pair of copper boilers and a network of pipes on wheels.Even now, mobile stills like this are towed through country lanes and rented out to vineyards and farms \u2013 rather like combine harvesters \u2013 to distill their grapes into eau de vie, which is then left to mature in barrels made from local oak.The production of armagnac has remained traditional and artisanal \u2013 there's a single distillation from four typical varieties of grapes and no sugars or sulphites are allowed to be added. In his culinary reminiscence, Memories of Gascony, master chef Pierre Koffmann recalls how peasant farmers, like his grandfather in the 1950s, would hire a local bouilleur, whose alambic was drawn by a pair of cows, to make their rations of armagnac \u2013 they were allowed 20 litres per household back then.It hasn't always been seen as a\u00a0posh person's tipple, and when you drive through the countryside of the Armagnac appellation \u2013 which stretches from the departement of the Gers to the Landes \u2013 you still see farms advertising armagnac alongside the less-refined floc de Gascogne, which is a mixture of newly pressed grapes and young armagnac.To make quality armagnac, the eau de vie has to be left in oak barrels for anything from four to 30 years until it turns gold, so it's an investment for the producers and the buyers. Bottles of the famous Francis Darroze armagnac from Roquefort, for example, can cost from \u00a335 for an eight-year-old to \u00a3600 and upwards for an 80-year-old. But, as his son Marc Darroze says, you're not exactly going to chuck the stuff back. \"You mustn't jump on armagnac. You have to reflect upon it. It is a mixture of gentleness and violence.\"That's a pretty accurate description. It's aggressive stuff \u2013 around 40% volume \u2013 and I'm not getting those \"top notes of cinnamon, leather, vanilla or white chocolate\" from my first tasting. What I am getting is a fire down the hole \u2013 which is a pleasant enough sensation on such a cold day.The flame that today lights the fires under stills that have produced armagnac in Gascony for more than 700 years is lit at the heart of Labastide D'Armagnac, and passes through village f\u00eates all over Gascony during November. It's rather like the Olympic torch going on a booze run, and it is accompanied by musketeers on horseback. Gascony was the birthplace of the Comte d'Artagnan, the captain of the king's guard, who inspired Alexandre Dumas to write his swashbuckling novel, The Three Musketeers.There are more than 300 producers of brandy in the Armagnac appellation, and many of them are small-scale, family-run affairs. As chance would have it, one of these producers, the Montesquiou family, who own the Domaine d'Esp\u00e9rance, are believed to be distant relations of d'Artagnan. It's too good an opportunity to pass up, so I drive west through a landscape upon which stillness and silence have descended \u2013 the fields of sandy-clay soil have been ploughed and there are only russet and gold leaves left on the black strings of the vines.I am met at the gates of the estate by Jean-Louis Montesquiou, who can trace his family roots in the region back to the 10th century. He shows me around vast cellars stacked to the rafters with 400-litre oak barrels, and high to the heavens with the smell of the evaporating spirit \u2013 the natural wastage in the armagnac process is known as la part des anges (the angels' share).Jean-Louis is a charming and bookish soul, who couldn't be more different to his rapier-thrusting ancestor. Armagnac, I'm reminded, is a mixture of gentleness and violence, and I proceed to get drunk. One for all and all for one!EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies to Bordeaux or Toulouse from \u00a328.99 one-way, or go by train from London to Agen through loco2.com from \u00a361 one-way. Car hire in France, through sixt.co.uk, costs from \u00a329.43 a day. Stay at C\u00f4t\u00e9 Remparts, Condom (cote-remparts.com). Rooms cost from \u20ac83 for two. For more information on armagnac, go to armagnac.fr. For more information on France, go to franceguide.com", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Short breaks"], "title": "Brandy galore in France"},{"date": "2012-12-18T13:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Feet stamped the frosty ground. Gloved hands rubbed together and mouths exhaled curling steam. The line numbered at least 20 and shuffled ever closer to the double doors that sealed in warmth, light and a delectable yeasty aroma.A postwar community holding ration tickets? No, it's the usual 2012 daily winter queue outside a Gif-sur-Yvette boulangerie, or bakery.Inside Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry there is, as in the 37,000 boulangeries across France, a wealth of delicious offerings. In wicker baskets, several types of long, thin breads such as the festive, baguette, ficelle and multigrain. Beneath are rounded boules de campagne, and in cabinets, patisserie items including croissants, flans, palmiers, and the delicacy \u00e0 la mode, macaroons.Each evening after work, Alain stops by Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry before it closes at eight o'clock. It's the final rush to purchase the last breads hot from the ovens. \"A meal without bread \u2013 inconceivable,\" he smiles.His son, Antoine, says, \"Bread remains an element of most meals. With wine and cheese, it's indispensable.\"This is reflected in the fact that 99.8% of the French population live less than 15 minutes' drive from a boulangerie or p\u00e2tisserie; 97% of French families purchase bread daily. Every second, 320 baguettes are produced and consumed, amounting to over 10bn per year.In areas where several boulangeries exist, residents acquaint themselves with their products. High in the Alps, Saint-Gervais-les-Bains is home to five boulangeries. Resident Marianne regularly patronises two, one for the bread and one where \"the croissants, which I like so much, are the best!\"The French expect the best. Quality is kept high through dozens of annual competitions. Government offices publish lists of their outstanding gourmet artisans. Indeed, Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry is listed in the Essonne department's brochure Papilles d'Or 2013.The Concours des Meilleurs Jeunes Boulangers has inspired young bakers for over 30 years. French bakers represent their country in the Coupe Louis Lesaffre, the Bakery World Cup.The question is not always: \"what will we eat for dinner tonight?\", but \"what will we eat with our bread?\"\u2022 Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people \u2013 please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["France", "Food & drink", "Bread"], "title": "Letter from France: Daily bread"},{"date": "2012-11-04T00:05:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Things are beginning to warm up nicely. It's late October and people have been breathing clouds of fog into the crisp autumn air all morning. Now shafts of sunlight are beginning to hit the cobbles, creep along the half-timbered houses and animate the crowd assembled in the village square for a f\u00eate.We are in Labastide d'Armagnac, an hour and a half down the road from Bordeaux in southwest France where, every year, over the last weekend in October, l'Armagnac en F\u00eate celebrates the end of the grape harvest and the beginning of the distilling season for the world's oldest eau de vie.All the ingredients for a proper country knees-up appear to be in place in the village square. This is the ancient domain of Gascony, France's poster region for the good life with its rolling hills, terracotta-roofed stone houses, country-table cooking and its connection to the soil through grape and game. In the square, groups huddle around vintners' stands, sampling the wines and spirits from local vines; a male-voice choir of former rugby players is belting out ballads in front of the town hall; people slurp down bowls of garbure \u2013 the local vegetable broth \u2013 at communal tables under the colonnades; and pyramids of preserves and conserves rise up from trestles presided over by ruddy-faced farmers. The local gastronomy is rightly celebrated for its rustic style. But it is also home to two of the world's most renowned and, some would argue, refined, ingredients: oak-aged armagnac and the controversial foie gras.Everyone knows how foie gras is made and you take your stand on it. The process of making armagnac is much more discreet, and is almost as complex as the cumbersome-looking machine that distills it. One of these \u2013 an alambic \u2013 sits in the corner of the village square for all comers to inspect. It resembles an early prototype of Stephenson's Rocket, a\u00a0pair of copper boilers and a network of pipes on wheels.Even now, mobile stills like this are towed through country lanes and rented out to vineyards and farms \u2013 rather like combine harvesters \u2013 to distill their grapes into eau de vie, which is then left to mature in barrels made from local oak.The production of armagnac has remained traditional and artisanal \u2013 there's a single distillation from four typical varieties of grapes and no sugars or sulphites are allowed to be added. In his culinary reminiscence, Memories of Gascony, master chef Pierre Koffmann recalls how peasant farmers, like his grandfather in the 1950s, would hire a local bouilleur, whose alambic was drawn by a pair of cows, to make their rations of armagnac \u2013 they were allowed 20 litres per household back then.It hasn't always been seen as a\u00a0posh person's tipple, and when you drive through the countryside of the Armagnac appellation \u2013 which stretches from the departement of the Gers to the Landes \u2013 you still see farms advertising armagnac alongside the less-refined floc de Gascogne, which is a mixture of newly pressed grapes and young armagnac.To make quality armagnac, the eau de vie has to be left in oak barrels for anything from four to 30 years until it turns gold, so it's an investment for the producers and the buyers. Bottles of the famous Francis Darroze armagnac from Roquefort, for example, can cost from \u00a335 for an eight-year-old to \u00a3600 and upwards for an 80-year-old. But, as his son Marc Darroze says, you're not exactly going to chuck the stuff back. \"You mustn't jump on armagnac. You have to reflect upon it. It is a mixture of gentleness and violence.\"That's a pretty accurate description. It's aggressive stuff \u2013 around 40% volume \u2013 and I'm not getting those \"top notes of cinnamon, leather, vanilla or white chocolate\" from my first tasting. What I am getting is a fire down the hole \u2013 which is a pleasant enough sensation on such a cold day.The flame that today lights the fires under stills that have produced armagnac in Gascony for more than 700 years is lit at the heart of Labastide D'Armagnac, and passes through village f\u00eates all over Gascony during November. It's rather like the Olympic torch going on a booze run, and it is accompanied by musketeers on horseback. Gascony was the birthplace of the Comte d'Artagnan, the captain of the king's guard, who inspired Alexandre Dumas to write his swashbuckling novel, The Three Musketeers.There are more than 300 producers of brandy in the Armagnac appellation, and many of them are small-scale, family-run affairs. As chance would have it, one of these producers, the Montesquiou family, who own the Domaine d'Esp\u00e9rance, are believed to be distant relations of d'Artagnan. It's too good an opportunity to pass up, so I drive west through a landscape upon which stillness and silence have descended \u2013 the fields of sandy-clay soil have been ploughed and there are only russet and gold leaves left on the black strings of the vines.I am met at the gates of the estate by Jean-Louis Montesquiou, who can trace his family roots in the region back to the 10th century. He shows me around vast cellars stacked to the rafters with 400-litre oak barrels, and high to the heavens with the smell of the evaporating spirit \u2013 the natural wastage in the armagnac process is known as la part des anges (the angels' share).Jean-Louis is a charming and bookish soul, who couldn't be more different to his rapier-thrusting ancestor. Armagnac, I'm reminded, is a mixture of gentleness and violence, and I proceed to get drunk. One for all and all for one!EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies to Bordeaux or Toulouse from \u00a328.99 one-way, or go by train from London to Agen through loco2.com from \u00a361 one-way. Car hire in France, through sixt.co.uk, costs from \u00a329.43 a day. Stay at C\u00f4t\u00e9 Remparts, Condom (cote-remparts.com). Rooms cost from \u20ac83 for two. For more information on armagnac, go to armagnac.fr. For more information on France, go to franceguide.com", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Short breaks"], "title": "Brandy galore in France"},{"date": "2012-12-18T13:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Feet stamped the frosty ground. Gloved hands rubbed together and mouths exhaled curling steam. The line numbered at least 20 and shuffled ever closer to the double doors that sealed in warmth, light and a delectable yeasty aroma.A postwar community holding ration tickets? No, it's the usual 2012 daily winter queue outside a Gif-sur-Yvette boulangerie, or bakery.Inside Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry there is, as in the 37,000 boulangeries across France, a wealth of delicious offerings. In wicker baskets, several types of long, thin breads such as the festive, baguette, ficelle and multigrain. Beneath are rounded boules de campagne, and in cabinets, patisserie items including croissants, flans, palmiers, and the delicacy \u00e0 la mode, macaroons.Each evening after work, Alain stops by Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry before it closes at eight o'clock. It's the final rush to purchase the last breads hot from the ovens. \"A meal without bread \u2013 inconceivable,\" he smiles.His son, Antoine, says, \"Bread remains an element of most meals. With wine and cheese, it's indispensable.\"This is reflected in the fact that 99.8% of the French population live less than 15 minutes' drive from a boulangerie or p\u00e2tisserie; 97% of French families purchase bread daily. Every second, 320 baguettes are produced and consumed, amounting to over 10bn per year.In areas where several boulangeries exist, residents acquaint themselves with their products. High in the Alps, Saint-Gervais-les-Bains is home to five boulangeries. Resident Marianne regularly patronises two, one for the bread and one where \"the croissants, which I like so much, are the best!\"The French expect the best. Quality is kept high through dozens of annual competitions. Government offices publish lists of their outstanding gourmet artisans. Indeed, Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry is listed in the Essonne department's brochure Papilles d'Or 2013.The Concours des Meilleurs Jeunes Boulangers has inspired young bakers for over 30 years. French bakers represent their country in the Coupe Louis Lesaffre, the Bakery World Cup.The question is not always: \"what will we eat for dinner tonight?\", but \"what will we eat with our bread?\"\u2022 Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people \u2013 please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["France", "Food & drink", "Bread"], "title": "Letter from France: Daily bread"},{"date": "2012-12-23T14:24:14Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"They do take a lot of convincing,\" admitted Marie Quatrehomme, an award-winning Parisian cheesemonger, \"but once they do, they're very happy with it.\"' The problem, she said from her illustrious Left Bank cheese shop, Quatrehomme, is that \"cheddar is well-liked by the French once they try it, but at the same time it's very little known.\"Slowly, though, the French palate \u2013 spoiled after being weaned on the ripest brie and most sumptuous camembert \u2013 is coming round to the idea of British cheddar. \"Its appeal in France lies in its wonderful shape and texture and in the fact that it is very close in appearance to the French cheese cantal and yet has a totally different taste,\" says Quatrehomme. \"We stock cheddar all year, but I've just taken a large order for Christmas and I'm really proud to offer my customers two of the best varieties.\"But the rise of cheddar is arguably best exemplified by the success of Cathedral City, made by Dairy Crest and\u00a0recently voted one of Britain's favourite brands, which entered the French market five years ago and now sells about a quarter of a million packets every year. Sales in France are up steadily 5% year on year.Another British brand, Wyke Farms from Somerset, the UK's largest independent cheese producer and milk processor, is now stocked in Intermarch\u00e9, Monoprix and other big French supermarkets.British cheese generally has never been as popular abroad, according to Nigel White, secretary of the British Cheese Board, an education body funded by British cheesemakers. \"120,000 tonnes of British cheese was exported last year across the world \u2013 more than double the amount 10 years ago,\" he said.Before then, British cheeses were too mild for continental tastes, said White. \"Until 1990, about 60% of cheddars made in Britain were mild. Now, two-thirds are mature, which appeal more to countries used to stronger cheeses. I think historically we used to send out cheese to the rest of the world that was too young. There was nothing wrong with it, but it didn't have a very strong\u00a0flavour.\"Stilton has long found foreign favour, and now more than 1,000 tonnes are produced for the export market each year, said White. But these days, that once respectable variety has been dwarfed by cheddar exports, which have reached 35,000 tonnes a year.The French were always nationalistic about their cheese, said White, reluctant to eat anything made beyond their borders. But they are now getting a taste for artisan cheddars \u2013 particularly West Country farmhouse cheddar, a protected product that by law has to be made by hand in south-west England.Until seven or eight years ago, Cathedral City's foreign market comprised homesick expats who would get their cheddar fix from English food shops, said Jackie Wilson, the brand's marketing manager. Now, though, the company has its sights on expanding the foreign business, which has grown by 10-15% year on year.France isn't the only country falling for Cathedral City. The international sales manager, Gavin Cartland, said: \"Our biggest markets outside the UK (where retail sales are worth \u00a3253m this year) are Germany, France, Spain, Switzerland, Benelux and Scandinavia.\" Total European retail sales were \u20ac8m (\u00a36.49m) this year. Germany is the biggest market. In 2010, no other cheese brand grew as fast over there, with volume increasing 40% year on year.Cartland and his team tailor their marketing for different foreign tastes. \"The Swiss tend to like eating cheddar for breakfast, Germans tend to use it like us, in sandwiches, on potatoes and everywhere else. The Spanish use it as a cooking ingredient, particularly with pasta or seafood.\"Cathedral City's appeal \u2013 to foreigners and Britons alike \u2013 is partly based on its packets being emblazoned with an olde-worlde church, and customers probably imagine the cheese is churned by godfearing monks in a monastery in some ancient English town. In fact, it is made on an industrial scale in Davidstow, Cornwall, which does not have a cathedral and is not a city.Fisherman's Friend Just 4% of the strong lozenges made by this Fleetwood-based family business are sold in the UK. The rest are exported to 100 countries worldwide.Chicken tikka Marks and Spencer's Champs Elys\u00e9es store in Paris sells more chicken tikka masala than any branch in the UK and the fifth highest number of BLT sandwichesScotch whisky In the full 12 months to the end of June 2012, Scotch whisky imports increased in value by 12% to \u00a34.2bn from \u00a33.8bn. Scotch is popular in the US, France, Taiwan and Germany as well as emerging markets such as Venezuela, Mexico, China and India.Dorset Cereals This west country muesli brand has been popular in the Middle East since it started selling in Dubai in 1994. Now it distributes cereals and snack bars across the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. International sales represented 20% of the company's turnover in 2010 and their exports have more than doubled in the last three years.Typhoo tea Typhoo teas are sold in over 40 countries worldwide, including Africa and the Middle East. The company's key markets are the US, Canada, Russia and Central Europe.", "tags": ["Cheese", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France develops a taste for British cheddar"},{"date": "2012-11-04T00:05:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Things are beginning to warm up nicely. It's late October and people have been breathing clouds of fog into the crisp autumn air all morning. Now shafts of sunlight are beginning to hit the cobbles, creep along the half-timbered houses and animate the crowd assembled in the village square for a f\u00eate.We are in Labastide d'Armagnac, an hour and a half down the road from Bordeaux in southwest France where, every year, over the last weekend in October, l'Armagnac en F\u00eate celebrates the end of the grape harvest and the beginning of the distilling season for the world's oldest eau de vie.All the ingredients for a proper country knees-up appear to be in place in the village square. This is the ancient domain of Gascony, France's poster region for the good life with its rolling hills, terracotta-roofed stone houses, country-table cooking and its connection to the soil through grape and game. In the square, groups huddle around vintners' stands, sampling the wines and spirits from local vines; a male-voice choir of former rugby players is belting out ballads in front of the town hall; people slurp down bowls of garbure \u2013 the local vegetable broth \u2013 at communal tables under the colonnades; and pyramids of preserves and conserves rise up from trestles presided over by ruddy-faced farmers. The local gastronomy is rightly celebrated for its rustic style. But it is also home to two of the world's most renowned and, some would argue, refined, ingredients: oak-aged armagnac and the controversial foie gras.Everyone knows how foie gras is made and you take your stand on it. The process of making armagnac is much more discreet, and is almost as complex as the cumbersome-looking machine that distills it. One of these \u2013 an alambic \u2013 sits in the corner of the village square for all comers to inspect. It resembles an early prototype of Stephenson's Rocket, a\u00a0pair of copper boilers and a network of pipes on wheels.Even now, mobile stills like this are towed through country lanes and rented out to vineyards and farms \u2013 rather like combine harvesters \u2013 to distill their grapes into eau de vie, which is then left to mature in barrels made from local oak.The production of armagnac has remained traditional and artisanal \u2013 there's a single distillation from four typical varieties of grapes and no sugars or sulphites are allowed to be added. In his culinary reminiscence, Memories of Gascony, master chef Pierre Koffmann recalls how peasant farmers, like his grandfather in the 1950s, would hire a local bouilleur, whose alambic was drawn by a pair of cows, to make their rations of armagnac \u2013 they were allowed 20 litres per household back then.It hasn't always been seen as a\u00a0posh person's tipple, and when you drive through the countryside of the Armagnac appellation \u2013 which stretches from the departement of the Gers to the Landes \u2013 you still see farms advertising armagnac alongside the less-refined floc de Gascogne, which is a mixture of newly pressed grapes and young armagnac.To make quality armagnac, the eau de vie has to be left in oak barrels for anything from four to 30 years until it turns gold, so it's an investment for the producers and the buyers. Bottles of the famous Francis Darroze armagnac from Roquefort, for example, can cost from \u00a335 for an eight-year-old to \u00a3600 and upwards for an 80-year-old. But, as his son Marc Darroze says, you're not exactly going to chuck the stuff back. \"You mustn't jump on armagnac. You have to reflect upon it. It is a mixture of gentleness and violence.\"That's a pretty accurate description. It's aggressive stuff \u2013 around 40% volume \u2013 and I'm not getting those \"top notes of cinnamon, leather, vanilla or white chocolate\" from my first tasting. What I am getting is a fire down the hole \u2013 which is a pleasant enough sensation on such a cold day.The flame that today lights the fires under stills that have produced armagnac in Gascony for more than 700 years is lit at the heart of Labastide D'Armagnac, and passes through village f\u00eates all over Gascony during November. It's rather like the Olympic torch going on a booze run, and it is accompanied by musketeers on horseback. Gascony was the birthplace of the Comte d'Artagnan, the captain of the king's guard, who inspired Alexandre Dumas to write his swashbuckling novel, The Three Musketeers.There are more than 300 producers of brandy in the Armagnac appellation, and many of them are small-scale, family-run affairs. As chance would have it, one of these producers, the Montesquiou family, who own the Domaine d'Esp\u00e9rance, are believed to be distant relations of d'Artagnan. It's too good an opportunity to pass up, so I drive west through a landscape upon which stillness and silence have descended \u2013 the fields of sandy-clay soil have been ploughed and there are only russet and gold leaves left on the black strings of the vines.I am met at the gates of the estate by Jean-Louis Montesquiou, who can trace his family roots in the region back to the 10th century. He shows me around vast cellars stacked to the rafters with 400-litre oak barrels, and high to the heavens with the smell of the evaporating spirit \u2013 the natural wastage in the armagnac process is known as la part des anges (the angels' share).Jean-Louis is a charming and bookish soul, who couldn't be more different to his rapier-thrusting ancestor. Armagnac, I'm reminded, is a mixture of gentleness and violence, and I proceed to get drunk. One for all and all for one!EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies to Bordeaux or Toulouse from \u00a328.99 one-way, or go by train from London to Agen through loco2.com from \u00a361 one-way. Car hire in France, through sixt.co.uk, costs from \u00a329.43 a day. Stay at C\u00f4t\u00e9 Remparts, Condom (cote-remparts.com). Rooms cost from \u20ac83 for two. For more information on armagnac, go to armagnac.fr. For more information on France, go to franceguide.com", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Short breaks"], "title": "Brandy galore in France"},{"date": "2012-12-18T13:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Feet stamped the frosty ground. Gloved hands rubbed together and mouths exhaled curling steam. The line numbered at least 20 and shuffled ever closer to the double doors that sealed in warmth, light and a delectable yeasty aroma.A postwar community holding ration tickets? No, it's the usual 2012 daily winter queue outside a Gif-sur-Yvette boulangerie, or bakery.Inside Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry there is, as in the 37,000 boulangeries across France, a wealth of delicious offerings. In wicker baskets, several types of long, thin breads such as the festive, baguette, ficelle and multigrain. Beneath are rounded boules de campagne, and in cabinets, patisserie items including croissants, flans, palmiers, and the delicacy \u00e0 la mode, macaroons.Each evening after work, Alain stops by Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry before it closes at eight o'clock. It's the final rush to purchase the last breads hot from the ovens. \"A meal without bread \u2013 inconceivable,\" he smiles.His son, Antoine, says, \"Bread remains an element of most meals. With wine and cheese, it's indispensable.\"This is reflected in the fact that 99.8% of the French population live less than 15 minutes' drive from a boulangerie or p\u00e2tisserie; 97% of French families purchase bread daily. Every second, 320 baguettes are produced and consumed, amounting to over 10bn per year.In areas where several boulangeries exist, residents acquaint themselves with their products. High in the Alps, Saint-Gervais-les-Bains is home to five boulangeries. Resident Marianne regularly patronises two, one for the bread and one where \"the croissants, which I like so much, are the best!\"The French expect the best. Quality is kept high through dozens of annual competitions. Government offices publish lists of their outstanding gourmet artisans. Indeed, Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry is listed in the Essonne department's brochure Papilles d'Or 2013.The Concours des Meilleurs Jeunes Boulangers has inspired young bakers for over 30 years. French bakers represent their country in the Coupe Louis Lesaffre, the Bakery World Cup.The question is not always: \"what will we eat for dinner tonight?\", but \"what will we eat with our bread?\"\u2022 Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people \u2013 please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["France", "Food & drink", "Bread"], "title": "Letter from France: Daily bread"},{"date": "2012-12-23T14:24:14Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"They do take a lot of convincing,\" admitted Marie Quatrehomme, an award-winning Parisian cheesemonger, \"but once they do, they're very happy with it.\"' The problem, she said from her illustrious Left Bank cheese shop, Quatrehomme, is that \"cheddar is well-liked by the French once they try it, but at the same time it's very little known.\"Slowly, though, the French palate \u2013 spoiled after being weaned on the ripest brie and most sumptuous camembert \u2013 is coming round to the idea of British cheddar. \"Its appeal in France lies in its wonderful shape and texture and in the fact that it is very close in appearance to the French cheese cantal and yet has a totally different taste,\" says Quatrehomme. \"We stock cheddar all year, but I've just taken a large order for Christmas and I'm really proud to offer my customers two of the best varieties.\"But the rise of cheddar is arguably best exemplified by the success of Cathedral City, made by Dairy Crest and\u00a0recently voted one of Britain's favourite brands, which entered the French market five years ago and now sells about a quarter of a million packets every year. Sales in France are up steadily 5% year on year.Another British brand, Wyke Farms from Somerset, the UK's largest independent cheese producer and milk processor, is now stocked in Intermarch\u00e9, Monoprix and other big French supermarkets.British cheese generally has never been as popular abroad, according to Nigel White, secretary of the British Cheese Board, an education body funded by British cheesemakers. \"120,000 tonnes of British cheese was exported last year across the world \u2013 more than double the amount 10 years ago,\" he said.Before then, British cheeses were too mild for continental tastes, said White. \"Until 1990, about 60% of cheddars made in Britain were mild. Now, two-thirds are mature, which appeal more to countries used to stronger cheeses. I think historically we used to send out cheese to the rest of the world that was too young. There was nothing wrong with it, but it didn't have a very strong\u00a0flavour.\"Stilton has long found foreign favour, and now more than 1,000 tonnes are produced for the export market each year, said White. But these days, that once respectable variety has been dwarfed by cheddar exports, which have reached 35,000 tonnes a year.The French were always nationalistic about their cheese, said White, reluctant to eat anything made beyond their borders. But they are now getting a taste for artisan cheddars \u2013 particularly West Country farmhouse cheddar, a protected product that by law has to be made by hand in south-west England.Until seven or eight years ago, Cathedral City's foreign market comprised homesick expats who would get their cheddar fix from English food shops, said Jackie Wilson, the brand's marketing manager. Now, though, the company has its sights on expanding the foreign business, which has grown by 10-15% year on year.France isn't the only country falling for Cathedral City. The international sales manager, Gavin Cartland, said: \"Our biggest markets outside the UK (where retail sales are worth \u00a3253m this year) are Germany, France, Spain, Switzerland, Benelux and Scandinavia.\" Total European retail sales were \u20ac8m (\u00a36.49m) this year. Germany is the biggest market. In 2010, no other cheese brand grew as fast over there, with volume increasing 40% year on year.Cartland and his team tailor their marketing for different foreign tastes. \"The Swiss tend to like eating cheddar for breakfast, Germans tend to use it like us, in sandwiches, on potatoes and everywhere else. The Spanish use it as a cooking ingredient, particularly with pasta or seafood.\"Cathedral City's appeal \u2013 to foreigners and Britons alike \u2013 is partly based on its packets being emblazoned with an olde-worlde church, and customers probably imagine the cheese is churned by godfearing monks in a monastery in some ancient English town. In fact, it is made on an industrial scale in Davidstow, Cornwall, which does not have a cathedral and is not a city.Fisherman's Friend Just 4% of the strong lozenges made by this Fleetwood-based family business are sold in the UK. The rest are exported to 100 countries worldwide.Chicken tikka Marks and Spencer's Champs Elys\u00e9es store in Paris sells more chicken tikka masala than any branch in the UK and the fifth highest number of BLT sandwichesScotch whisky In the full 12 months to the end of June 2012, Scotch whisky imports increased in value by 12% to \u00a34.2bn from \u00a33.8bn. Scotch is popular in the US, France, Taiwan and Germany as well as emerging markets such as Venezuela, Mexico, China and India.Dorset Cereals This west country muesli brand has been popular in the Middle East since it started selling in Dubai in 1994. Now it distributes cereals and snack bars across the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. International sales represented 20% of the company's turnover in 2010 and their exports have more than doubled in the last three years.Typhoo tea Typhoo teas are sold in over 40 countries worldwide, including Africa and the Middle East. The company's key markets are the US, Canada, Russia and Central Europe.", "tags": ["Cheese", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France develops a taste for British cheddar"},{"date": "2012-12-01T13:00:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "One of the enduring quotations in the tortuous history of relations between France and Britain is the remark attributed to Churchill during the second world war \u2013 that the cross he had to bear was the Cross of Lorraine, the symbol of Charles de Gaulle and the Free French based in London.In fact, the remark came not from the prime minister but from Sir Edward Spears, his friend and emissary to France, on whose plane De Gaulle flew to London in June 1940. Despite his recurrent rows with the general \u2013 on D Day he wanted the Frenchman flown out of the country, in chains if necessary \u2013 Churchill always harboured an admiration for the man who had said no to his country's defeat by Nazi Germany.But De Gaulle's habit of saying no to the British, too, has left a folk memory in Britain of an alliance that had caused more pain than gain. It is part of a long saga of cross-Channel tension stretching back at least to the hundred years war, which is still evident today in deeply different approaches to the European Union, or invitations by David Cameron and Boris Johnson to discontented French entrepreneurs to move to the UK. Some French would equally recall the British bombardment of their fleet in 1940, the invasion of north Africa two years later, and the US plans to treat France as an occupied nation. On the British side, there is also De Gaulle's obfuscation of the Allied role in liberating Paris in 1944, and his veto of the UK bid to join the Common Market two decades later. On the French side, there is the burning of Joan of Arc, Churchill lining up with Roosevelt against the General, Britain's preference for the open seas rather than collaboration with the European mainland, Tony Blair's backing for George W Bush in Iraq \u2013 and the way English has wormed its way into the sacrosanct language of Racine and Corneille.The squabbles are undeniable but there is also another story \u2013 one of co-operation and friendship. This was epitomised this week, as the exploit of wing commander Ken Gatward came to light after his war medals were auctioned. Gatward flew his Bristol Beaufighter in Nazi-occupied Paris, down the Champs-Elysees at 30 feet, before dropping a French tricolour flag over the Arc de Triomphe. He then went on to strafe Gestapo headquarters nearby. After the war, the RAF pilot was hailed as a hero by the French government; at a ceremony in Paris, he was presented with a honorary tricolour \u2013 and a magnum of champagne. He was also awarded the Distinguished Service Order.There were also, of course, the British agents who went into occupied France to work with the Resistance. For all their arguments, Churchill backed De Gaulle and the Free French from the start (though characteristically, the General insisted on reimbursing funds granted to his movement by the British government). Not everybody was so convinced. De Gaulle's historic BBC broadcast with his call to resistance on 18 June 1940 was initially blocked by the war cabinet, meeting under Lord Halifax, the foreign secretary who wanted to pursue talks with the Petain regime. Churchill was absent, writing a speech, but he agreed to a request by Spears to be allowed to try to get a majority of cabinet members to overturn the decision, which they did.The Free French were initially unpopular with establishment members of the French community in London, but they got a warm welcome from British people who sent gifts to their headquarters \u2013 first on the Embankment and then in a grand terrace overlooking St James's Park. The Queen Mother was a supporter. The French Club in St James's thrived as a social centre for the British as well as the French \u2013 one popular attraction was jazz violinist St\u00e9phane Grappelli. De Gaulle often lodged at the Connaught hotel, and lunched at the RAC club in Pall Mall.In his final meeting before moving his headquarters to Algiers in 1943, De Gaulle was asked by foreign secretary Anthony Eden what he thought of the British. \"Nobody's more friendly than your people\", the Frenchman replied. \"I do not always think the same of your policy\". \"Do you know that, of all the European allies, you have caused us the most difficulties?\", Eden said in a bantering tone. \"I don't doubt that\", De Gaulle responded with a smile. \"France is a great nation\".That pursuit of greatness, embodied most of all by the seemingly aloof but highly human wartime leader who went on to found the Fifth Republic, has caused many upsets over the centuries. Anti-French jokes are two a penny. The image of French politicians as untrustworthy schemers persists. For their part, the French often seem indifferent to the British pursuing their own vain quest to maintain the leadership of Europe in the face of rising German political, as well as economic, authority.But the links are stronger than might appear. London is home to approximately 400,000 French people \u2013 more than all but the five biggest cities in the Hexagon (mainland France). Ryanair flights to French towns nobody across the Channel had heard of 20 years ago are full of Brits who have bought cheap country properties (though rising prices are leading some of them to cash in and move elsewhere in search of bargains). British insularity and French pride will always clash but this week, the story of Gatward's feat reminds us that national sensibilities have their limits in times of trouble.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Second world war"], "title": "France and Britain are squabbling friends | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2012-11-04T00:05:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "Things are beginning to warm up nicely. It's late October and people have been breathing clouds of fog into the crisp autumn air all morning. Now shafts of sunlight are beginning to hit the cobbles, creep along the half-timbered houses and animate the crowd assembled in the village square for a f\u00eate.We are in Labastide d'Armagnac, an hour and a half down the road from Bordeaux in southwest France where, every year, over the last weekend in October, l'Armagnac en F\u00eate celebrates the end of the grape harvest and the beginning of the distilling season for the world's oldest eau de vie.All the ingredients for a proper country knees-up appear to be in place in the village square. This is the ancient domain of Gascony, France's poster region for the good life with its rolling hills, terracotta-roofed stone houses, country-table cooking and its connection to the soil through grape and game. In the square, groups huddle around vintners' stands, sampling the wines and spirits from local vines; a male-voice choir of former rugby players is belting out ballads in front of the town hall; people slurp down bowls of garbure \u2013 the local vegetable broth \u2013 at communal tables under the colonnades; and pyramids of preserves and conserves rise up from trestles presided over by ruddy-faced farmers. The local gastronomy is rightly celebrated for its rustic style. But it is also home to two of the world's most renowned and, some would argue, refined, ingredients: oak-aged armagnac and the controversial foie gras.Everyone knows how foie gras is made and you take your stand on it. The process of making armagnac is much more discreet, and is almost as complex as the cumbersome-looking machine that distills it. One of these \u2013 an alambic \u2013 sits in the corner of the village square for all comers to inspect. It resembles an early prototype of Stephenson's Rocket, a\u00a0pair of copper boilers and a network of pipes on wheels.Even now, mobile stills like this are towed through country lanes and rented out to vineyards and farms \u2013 rather like combine harvesters \u2013 to distill their grapes into eau de vie, which is then left to mature in barrels made from local oak.The production of armagnac has remained traditional and artisanal \u2013 there's a single distillation from four typical varieties of grapes and no sugars or sulphites are allowed to be added. In his culinary reminiscence, Memories of Gascony, master chef Pierre Koffmann recalls how peasant farmers, like his grandfather in the 1950s, would hire a local bouilleur, whose alambic was drawn by a pair of cows, to make their rations of armagnac \u2013 they were allowed 20 litres per household back then.It hasn't always been seen as a\u00a0posh person's tipple, and when you drive through the countryside of the Armagnac appellation \u2013 which stretches from the departement of the Gers to the Landes \u2013 you still see farms advertising armagnac alongside the less-refined floc de Gascogne, which is a mixture of newly pressed grapes and young armagnac.To make quality armagnac, the eau de vie has to be left in oak barrels for anything from four to 30 years until it turns gold, so it's an investment for the producers and the buyers. Bottles of the famous Francis Darroze armagnac from Roquefort, for example, can cost from \u00a335 for an eight-year-old to \u00a3600 and upwards for an 80-year-old. But, as his son Marc Darroze says, you're not exactly going to chuck the stuff back. \"You mustn't jump on armagnac. You have to reflect upon it. It is a mixture of gentleness and violence.\"That's a pretty accurate description. It's aggressive stuff \u2013 around 40% volume \u2013 and I'm not getting those \"top notes of cinnamon, leather, vanilla or white chocolate\" from my first tasting. What I am getting is a fire down the hole \u2013 which is a pleasant enough sensation on such a cold day.The flame that today lights the fires under stills that have produced armagnac in Gascony for more than 700 years is lit at the heart of Labastide D'Armagnac, and passes through village f\u00eates all over Gascony during November. It's rather like the Olympic torch going on a booze run, and it is accompanied by musketeers on horseback. Gascony was the birthplace of the Comte d'Artagnan, the captain of the king's guard, who inspired Alexandre Dumas to write his swashbuckling novel, The Three Musketeers.There are more than 300 producers of brandy in the Armagnac appellation, and many of them are small-scale, family-run affairs. As chance would have it, one of these producers, the Montesquiou family, who own the Domaine d'Esp\u00e9rance, are believed to be distant relations of d'Artagnan. It's too good an opportunity to pass up, so I drive west through a landscape upon which stillness and silence have descended \u2013 the fields of sandy-clay soil have been ploughed and there are only russet and gold leaves left on the black strings of the vines.I am met at the gates of the estate by Jean-Louis Montesquiou, who can trace his family roots in the region back to the 10th century. He shows me around vast cellars stacked to the rafters with 400-litre oak barrels, and high to the heavens with the smell of the evaporating spirit \u2013 the natural wastage in the armagnac process is known as la part des anges (the angels' share).Jean-Louis is a charming and bookish soul, who couldn't be more different to his rapier-thrusting ancestor. Armagnac, I'm reminded, is a mixture of gentleness and violence, and I proceed to get drunk. One for all and all for one!EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies to Bordeaux or Toulouse from \u00a328.99 one-way, or go by train from London to Agen through loco2.com from \u00a361 one-way. Car hire in France, through sixt.co.uk, costs from \u00a329.43 a day. Stay at C\u00f4t\u00e9 Remparts, Condom (cote-remparts.com). Rooms cost from \u20ac83 for two. For more information on armagnac, go to armagnac.fr. For more information on France, go to franceguide.com", "tags": ["France holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Short breaks"], "title": "Brandy galore in France"},{"date": "2012-12-18T13:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Feet stamped the frosty ground. Gloved hands rubbed together and mouths exhaled curling steam. The line numbered at least 20 and shuffled ever closer to the double doors that sealed in warmth, light and a delectable yeasty aroma.A postwar community holding ration tickets? No, it's the usual 2012 daily winter queue outside a Gif-sur-Yvette boulangerie, or bakery.Inside Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry there is, as in the 37,000 boulangeries across France, a wealth of delicious offerings. In wicker baskets, several types of long, thin breads such as the festive, baguette, ficelle and multigrain. Beneath are rounded boules de campagne, and in cabinets, patisserie items including croissants, flans, palmiers, and the delicacy \u00e0 la mode, macaroons.Each evening after work, Alain stops by Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry before it closes at eight o'clock. It's the final rush to purchase the last breads hot from the ovens. \"A meal without bread \u2013 inconceivable,\" he smiles.His son, Antoine, says, \"Bread remains an element of most meals. With wine and cheese, it's indispensable.\"This is reflected in the fact that 99.8% of the French population live less than 15 minutes' drive from a boulangerie or p\u00e2tisserie; 97% of French families purchase bread daily. Every second, 320 baguettes are produced and consumed, amounting to over 10bn per year.In areas where several boulangeries exist, residents acquaint themselves with their products. High in the Alps, Saint-Gervais-les-Bains is home to five boulangeries. Resident Marianne regularly patronises two, one for the bread and one where \"the croissants, which I like so much, are the best!\"The French expect the best. Quality is kept high through dozens of annual competitions. Government offices publish lists of their outstanding gourmet artisans. Indeed, Le P\u00e9trin de Chevry is listed in the Essonne department's brochure Papilles d'Or 2013.The Concours des Meilleurs Jeunes Boulangers has inspired young bakers for over 30 years. French bakers represent their country in the Coupe Louis Lesaffre, the Bakery World Cup.The question is not always: \"what will we eat for dinner tonight?\", but \"what will we eat with our bread?\"\u2022 Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people \u2013 please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["France", "Food & drink", "Bread"], "title": "Letter from France: Daily bread"},{"date": "2012-12-23T14:24:14Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"They do take a lot of convincing,\" admitted Marie Quatrehomme, an award-winning Parisian cheesemonger, \"but once they do, they're very happy with it.\"' The problem, she said from her illustrious Left Bank cheese shop, Quatrehomme, is that \"cheddar is well-liked by the French once they try it, but at the same time it's very little known.\"Slowly, though, the French palate \u2013 spoiled after being weaned on the ripest brie and most sumptuous camembert \u2013 is coming round to the idea of British cheddar. \"Its appeal in France lies in its wonderful shape and texture and in the fact that it is very close in appearance to the French cheese cantal and yet has a totally different taste,\" says Quatrehomme. \"We stock cheddar all year, but I've just taken a large order for Christmas and I'm really proud to offer my customers two of the best varieties.\"But the rise of cheddar is arguably best exemplified by the success of Cathedral City, made by Dairy Crest and\u00a0recently voted one of Britain's favourite brands, which entered the French market five years ago and now sells about a quarter of a million packets every year. Sales in France are up steadily 5% year on year.Another British brand, Wyke Farms from Somerset, the UK's largest independent cheese producer and milk processor, is now stocked in Intermarch\u00e9, Monoprix and other big French supermarkets.British cheese generally has never been as popular abroad, according to Nigel White, secretary of the British Cheese Board, an education body funded by British cheesemakers. \"120,000 tonnes of British cheese was exported last year across the world \u2013 more than double the amount 10 years ago,\" he said.Before then, British cheeses were too mild for continental tastes, said White. \"Until 1990, about 60% of cheddars made in Britain were mild. Now, two-thirds are mature, which appeal more to countries used to stronger cheeses. I think historically we used to send out cheese to the rest of the world that was too young. There was nothing wrong with it, but it didn't have a very strong\u00a0flavour.\"Stilton has long found foreign favour, and now more than 1,000 tonnes are produced for the export market each year, said White. But these days, that once respectable variety has been dwarfed by cheddar exports, which have reached 35,000 tonnes a year.The French were always nationalistic about their cheese, said White, reluctant to eat anything made beyond their borders. But they are now getting a taste for artisan cheddars \u2013 particularly West Country farmhouse cheddar, a protected product that by law has to be made by hand in south-west England.Until seven or eight years ago, Cathedral City's foreign market comprised homesick expats who would get their cheddar fix from English food shops, said Jackie Wilson, the brand's marketing manager. Now, though, the company has its sights on expanding the foreign business, which has grown by 10-15% year on year.France isn't the only country falling for Cathedral City. The international sales manager, Gavin Cartland, said: \"Our biggest markets outside the UK (where retail sales are worth \u00a3253m this year) are Germany, France, Spain, Switzerland, Benelux and Scandinavia.\" Total European retail sales were \u20ac8m (\u00a36.49m) this year. Germany is the biggest market. In 2010, no other cheese brand grew as fast over there, with volume increasing 40% year on year.Cartland and his team tailor their marketing for different foreign tastes. \"The Swiss tend to like eating cheddar for breakfast, Germans tend to use it like us, in sandwiches, on potatoes and everywhere else. The Spanish use it as a cooking ingredient, particularly with pasta or seafood.\"Cathedral City's appeal \u2013 to foreigners and Britons alike \u2013 is partly based on its packets being emblazoned with an olde-worlde church, and customers probably imagine the cheese is churned by godfearing monks in a monastery in some ancient English town. In fact, it is made on an industrial scale in Davidstow, Cornwall, which does not have a cathedral and is not a city.Fisherman's Friend Just 4% of the strong lozenges made by this Fleetwood-based family business are sold in the UK. The rest are exported to 100 countries worldwide.Chicken tikka Marks and Spencer's Champs Elys\u00e9es store in Paris sells more chicken tikka masala than any branch in the UK and the fifth highest number of BLT sandwichesScotch whisky In the full 12 months to the end of June 2012, Scotch whisky imports increased in value by 12% to \u00a34.2bn from \u00a33.8bn. Scotch is popular in the US, France, Taiwan and Germany as well as emerging markets such as Venezuela, Mexico, China and India.Dorset Cereals This west country muesli brand has been popular in the Middle East since it started selling in Dubai in 1994. Now it distributes cereals and snack bars across the United Arab Emirates, Bahrain, Jordan, Kuwait, Oman, Qatar and Saudi Arabia. International sales represented 20% of the company's turnover in 2010 and their exports have more than doubled in the last three years.Typhoo tea Typhoo teas are sold in over 40 countries worldwide, including Africa and the Middle East. The company's key markets are the US, Canada, Russia and Central Europe.", "tags": ["Cheese", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France develops a taste for British cheddar"},{"date": "2012-12-01T13:00:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "One of the enduring quotations in the tortuous history of relations between France and Britain is the remark attributed to Churchill during the second world war \u2013 that the cross he had to bear was the Cross of Lorraine, the symbol of Charles de Gaulle and the Free French based in London.In fact, the remark came not from the prime minister but from Sir Edward Spears, his friend and emissary to France, on whose plane De Gaulle flew to London in June 1940. Despite his recurrent rows with the general \u2013 on D Day he wanted the Frenchman flown out of the country, in chains if necessary \u2013 Churchill always harboured an admiration for the man who had said no to his country's defeat by Nazi Germany.But De Gaulle's habit of saying no to the British, too, has left a folk memory in Britain of an alliance that had caused more pain than gain. It is part of a long saga of cross-Channel tension stretching back at least to the hundred years war, which is still evident today in deeply different approaches to the European Union, or invitations by David Cameron and Boris Johnson to discontented French entrepreneurs to move to the UK. Some French would equally recall the British bombardment of their fleet in 1940, the invasion of north Africa two years later, and the US plans to treat France as an occupied nation. On the British side, there is also De Gaulle's obfuscation of the Allied role in liberating Paris in 1944, and his veto of the UK bid to join the Common Market two decades later. On the French side, there is the burning of Joan of Arc, Churchill lining up with Roosevelt against the General, Britain's preference for the open seas rather than collaboration with the European mainland, Tony Blair's backing for George W Bush in Iraq \u2013 and the way English has wormed its way into the sacrosanct language of Racine and Corneille.The squabbles are undeniable but there is also another story \u2013 one of co-operation and friendship. This was epitomised this week, as the exploit of wing commander Ken Gatward came to light after his war medals were auctioned. Gatward flew his Bristol Beaufighter in Nazi-occupied Paris, down the Champs-Elysees at 30 feet, before dropping a French tricolour flag over the Arc de Triomphe. He then went on to strafe Gestapo headquarters nearby. After the war, the RAF pilot was hailed as a hero by the French government; at a ceremony in Paris, he was presented with a honorary tricolour \u2013 and a magnum of champagne. He was also awarded the Distinguished Service Order.There were also, of course, the British agents who went into occupied France to work with the Resistance. For all their arguments, Churchill backed De Gaulle and the Free French from the start (though characteristically, the General insisted on reimbursing funds granted to his movement by the British government). Not everybody was so convinced. De Gaulle's historic BBC broadcast with his call to resistance on 18 June 1940 was initially blocked by the war cabinet, meeting under Lord Halifax, the foreign secretary who wanted to pursue talks with the Petain regime. Churchill was absent, writing a speech, but he agreed to a request by Spears to be allowed to try to get a majority of cabinet members to overturn the decision, which they did.The Free French were initially unpopular with establishment members of the French community in London, but they got a warm welcome from British people who sent gifts to their headquarters \u2013 first on the Embankment and then in a grand terrace overlooking St James's Park. The Queen Mother was a supporter. The French Club in St James's thrived as a social centre for the British as well as the French \u2013 one popular attraction was jazz violinist St\u00e9phane Grappelli. De Gaulle often lodged at the Connaught hotel, and lunched at the RAC club in Pall Mall.In his final meeting before moving his headquarters to Algiers in 1943, De Gaulle was asked by foreign secretary Anthony Eden what he thought of the British. \"Nobody's more friendly than your people\", the Frenchman replied. \"I do not always think the same of your policy\". \"Do you know that, of all the European allies, you have caused us the most difficulties?\", Eden said in a bantering tone. \"I don't doubt that\", De Gaulle responded with a smile. \"France is a great nation\".That pursuit of greatness, embodied most of all by the seemingly aloof but highly human wartime leader who went on to found the Fifth Republic, has caused many upsets over the centuries. Anti-French jokes are two a penny. The image of French politicians as untrustworthy schemers persists. For their part, the French often seem indifferent to the British pursuing their own vain quest to maintain the leadership of Europe in the face of rising German political, as well as economic, authority.But the links are stronger than might appear. London is home to approximately 400,000 French people \u2013 more than all but the five biggest cities in the Hexagon (mainland France). Ryanair flights to French towns nobody across the Channel had heard of 20 years ago are full of Brits who have bought cheap country properties (though rising prices are leading some of them to cash in and move elsewhere in search of bargains). British insularity and French pride will always clash but this week, the story of Gatward's feat reminds us that national sensibilities have their limits in times of trouble.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Second world war"], "title": "France and Britain are squabbling friends | Jonathan Fenby"},{"date": "2012-12-04T14:01:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "Increasing the number of dogs, protective fences and shepherds makes no difference. Nor do the warning shots sanctioned by local government decrees (133 this year alone) to keep predators at a safe distance. Even selective culls (11 animals shot in 2012) have no effect. The wolf, which reappeared in France uninvited in 1992, seems determined to stay.In 2011 alone wolves are thought to have killed 5,000 sheep, adding 4,500 more to the death toll so far in 2012. This is quite an achievement for a population estimated at 250 adults, spread over 12 d\u00e9partements. Protected by the Bern Convention (1979) and a European directive (1992), conservation of the wolf has continued until now, but there are growing demands for it to be excluded from mountain pastures, perhaps even national parks.At the end of the annual general meeting of the C\u00e9vennes national park, in Florac, Loz\u00e8re, an almost unanimous vote decided that the predator's presence was not \"compatible with the stock-raising techniques used on park territory\".\"Our approach to stock-raising produces biodiversity. The presence of wolves would jeopardise that biodiversity,\" said the park's president, Jean de Lescure. The board called for changes in the national action plan for wolves, the introduction of exclusion zones and scope for defensive shooting even in the central reserve.This must have reassured Causse M\u00e9jean farmers who set up a collective in September to oust wolves from Loz\u00e8re. But it had the opposite effect on conservationists who pointed out that the core areas of national parks are the only part (less than 1%) of French territory where wildlife is strictly protected.The C\u00e9vennes park is unique, being the only national park on a medium-altitude massif and the only one in mainland France to have permanent residents living and working at its heart.In October farmers in Savoie and Haute Savoie, in the French Alps, announced that they had written to the Vanoise national park and the Bauges and Chartreuse regional parks, calling for \"the board to be convened to debate the decision taken by the C\u00e9vennes\". This would be entirely consistent with two recent private-members' bills.The first one, tabled by 20 Conservative MPs on 10 October, seeks to authorise farmers \"to shoot at wolves threatening their flocks\", including in national parks.The second bill, tabled a week later by 15 Centre-Right members of the upper house, seeks to allow the authorities to establish wolf-exclusion zones in localities suffering large-scale disruption to stock-farming. Specific culls could be organised without counting in the overall national quota.It remains to be seen whether these proposals will be followed up by the \"national wolf group\", formed in mid-October and tasked with framing a five-year plan for managing the wolf nationwide.\"The new wolf plan must address issues of management and control, with targets for stock farming which must be upheld,\" said the minister of ecology and sustainable development, Delphine Batho, when the group was launched. Regardless of the details this clearly marks the start of measures being introduced to limit the wolf population.\"It looks very much as if the priority for the next plan is to slaughter as many wolves as possible, without any additional conservation measures or training for farmers in the use of existing means of protection,\" says Jean-Fran\u00e7ois Darmstaeder, the head of Ferus. This organisation specialises in the defence of large predators \u2013 bears, wolves and lynxes. It is not against non-lethal shots to scare off the animals. But it wants to prevent culls in the Jura, Vosges and Loz\u00e8re, where only a few wolves have been reported, which means they have not settled in.\"I quite understand that wolves are a problem on summer pasture, but they are starting to hunt them in the middle of natural parks. Where are they supposed to go?\" asks Pierre Athanaze, the head of the Wildlife Protection Association (Aspas). The organisation advocates \"far-reaching changes in stock-farming techniques combined with proper protection for flocks\".Two questions must be settled: how much can be done to contain France's wolf population without threatening its overall survival; how far can stock-raising techniques be changed without jeopardising the livelihood of mountain sheep-farmers.According to Antoine Dor\u00e9, a sociologist at France's National Research Institute of Science and Technology for Environment and Agriculture, public policymakers must \"invent negotiating systems to address such issues, opening the way for a 'bearable compromise'. Failing this there can be no hope of wolves and lambs coexisting.\"\u2022 This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Endangered species", "Conservation", "Environment", "Animals", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Impasse for wolf conservation in France?"},{"date": "2013-03-29T16:39:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "France failed to meet its budget deficit target in 2012 and will miss it again this year, as reports showed the country's public debt has risen to a record level.The latest bad news came just hours after French president Fran\u00e7ois Hollande went on live television to reassure the nation of his ability to lead it out of the economic mire.Bringing France's public deficit down to levels in line with European requirements was a key pledge in Hollande's successful election campaign last year. Reports that he was failing to do so will further rankle the country's key European partners, notably Germany, with whom relations are already strained.Figures released on Friday showed that two key economic indicators, the level of public deficit and of public debt, had overshot government targets.The nominal deficit last year was 4.8% of gross domestic product. The target was 4.5%. Insee, France's national statistics agency, reported that public debt rose to \u20ac1.8tn (\u00a31.5tn), a record 90.2% of GDP in 2012, up from 85.8% in 2011.France's socialist government has admitted it will not be able to keep a pledge to lower the deficit to 3% by the end of 2013, as agreed with the European commission. The figure is expected to be about 3.7%, and France has asked for an extension to the deadline for reaching the target.France has not balanced its books since 1974 under successive governments. Hollande had promised to cut public spending, currently at 56% of GDP, the second highest in the EU.In Paris, the finance ministry blamed the recapitalisation of the failed French-Belgian bank Dexia along with lower than expected growth and higher EU contributions for its failure to rein in the deficit.Pierre Moscovici, the finance minister, said the structural deficit had been reduced by 1.2% points of GDP in 2012, and argued it was on track to reduce the deficit level to 3%, but needed more time.In a statement Moscovici and the budget minister Bernard Cazeneuve said the overshooting of the deficit forecast was \"exceptional\", and that if the Dexia rescue and the European budget were taken out of the equation, the deficit was at 4.7% in 2012.Olli Rehn, the Europe's economic and monetary commissioner, has already suggested the EC might agree to delaying the deadline on the condition France reduces its public deficit to 3% by the end of 2014. However, the commission has warned France's deficit will reach 3.9% and the debt 95% of GDP by the end of 2014 if no new cost-cutting measures are implemented.During his television address on Thursday evening, Hollande said his government had pledged to find \u20ac20bn in increased taxes and \u20ac10bn in public spending cuts this year and ruled out any more cuts or tax hikes. He warned that further austerity would lead to \"an explosion\" in Europe.The president promised to address the thorny questions of reining in France's generous welfare benefits system and introduce pension reforms, issues that have brought demonstrators on to the streets in the past.", "tags": ["France", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France misses budget deficit target"},{"date": "2013-05-16T21:55:31Z", "country": "france", "content": "The run-up to Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's second press conference of his presidency could not have been less auspicious. France had just slipped back into recession, purchasing power had just dropped by 0.9 %, the heaviest fall in 30 years, and unemployment was at an all-time high. But to listen to the president, you would have thought that the French ship of state was on course.If, in the president's words, his first year in power had been about bringing France's public spending under control (at 56% of GDP it is still nine points above Germany's) and putting the eurozone on the right track, the second year would see France going on the offensive. Now you may think, having seen most of his predictions for his first year in office crash in flames, Mr Hollande would be loath to create any more hostages to fortune. Not a bit of it. Mr Hollande called for the establishment of an economic government in the eurozone that would have: its own budget, debt, harmonised tax system and full-time president; a \u20ac6bn European youth programme; a pan-European energy policy; and more integration in the eurozone. As a founder member of the EU, it was France's responsibility to pull the sick, declining, doubting continent out of its torpor, the president said. Meanwhile, Angela Merkel was saying the opposite. Rejecting the idea of pooling debt, she stressed the importance of French reforms and each government getting their own finances in order. Apart from the hint Mr Hollande made that he will reform a pension system that is bust and that is borrowing from the markets, the distance between the two parts of the so called European motor is wide enough.A more pressing task for Mr Hollande surely is to persuade a French audience he is capable of pulling his country out of its torpor. And on that test, he is failing. In January, he vowed to bring unemployment down by the end of the year. YesterdayOn Thursday, he said it was still \"possible\" to reverse the trend. He expressed complete faith in his prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, but vowed there would be no reshuffle \"for now\". There is no doubting Mr Hollande's honesty.Nor is he looking for popularity. But there are strong doubts whether he has the strength to swim against the currents pulling him under. He is neither cutting fast enough to satisfy the austerity meisters of Berlin, nor is he reflating the economy. France enjoys the cheapest borrowing rates on the bond markets for decades, but is loath to use them. The US shows what even a small stimulus can produce.Instead, Mr Hollande's strategy for growth relies on the rest of the sick eurozone supplying the demand that French exports need. There is nothing to indicate that will happen any time soon. Mr Hollande may well come to the podium next year pleading for more time.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France: waiting for Godot"},{"date": "2013-05-16T21:55:31Z", "country": "france", "content": "The run-up to Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's second press conference of his presidency could not have been less auspicious. France had just slipped back into recession, purchasing power had just dropped by 0.9 %, the heaviest fall in 30 years, and unemployment was at an all-time high. But to listen to the president, you would have thought that the French ship of state was on course.If, in the president's words, his first year in power had been about bringing France's public spending under control (at 56% of GDP it is still nine points above Germany's) and putting the eurozone on the right track, the second year would see France going on the offensive. Now you may think, having seen most of his predictions for his first year in office crash in flames, Mr Hollande would be loath to create any more hostages to fortune. Not a bit of it. Mr Hollande called for the establishment of an economic government in the eurozone that would have: its own budget, debt, harmonised tax system and full-time president; a \u20ac6bn European youth programme; a pan-European energy policy; and more integration in the eurozone. As a founder member of the EU, it was France's responsibility to pull the sick, declining, doubting continent out of its torpor, the president said. Meanwhile, Angela Merkel was saying the opposite. Rejecting the idea of pooling debt, she stressed the importance of French reforms and each government getting their own finances in order. Apart from the hint Mr Hollande made that he will reform a pension system that is bust and that is borrowing from the markets, the distance between the two parts of the so called European motor is wide enough.A more pressing task for Mr Hollande surely is to persuade a French audience he is capable of pulling his country out of its torpor. And on that test, he is failing. In January, he vowed to bring unemployment down by the end of the year. YesterdayOn Thursday, he said it was still \"possible\" to reverse the trend. He expressed complete faith in his prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, but vowed there would be no reshuffle \"for now\". There is no doubting Mr Hollande's honesty.Nor is he looking for popularity. But there are strong doubts whether he has the strength to swim against the currents pulling him under. He is neither cutting fast enough to satisfy the austerity meisters of Berlin, nor is he reflating the economy. France enjoys the cheapest borrowing rates on the bond markets for decades, but is loath to use them. The US shows what even a small stimulus can produce.Instead, Mr Hollande's strategy for growth relies on the rest of the sick eurozone supplying the demand that French exports need. There is nothing to indicate that will happen any time soon. Mr Hollande may well come to the podium next year pleading for more time.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France: waiting for Godot"},{"date": "2013-04-15T21:12:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "So now we know: the French pensions minister Mich\u00e8le Delaunay has accrued a \u20ac5m private fortune, including \u20ac10,000 worth of watches, Arnaud Montebourg, the industry renewal minister, has a Charles Eames chair, and the culture minister has declared a David Beckham T-shirt. These are the headlines of the great unpacking \u2013 le grand d\u00e9ballage \u2013 that has French politics reeling.France's politicians are notoriously a very private class. From Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand's second family to Dominique Strauss-Kahn's serial philandering, their private lives traditionally stay a closed book. Finances are treated even more circumspectly. But with one past president, Jacques Chirac, convicted of corruption, and another, Nicolas Sarkozy, under investigation, there is a new mood. Perhaps unwisely, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande had campaigned on the promise of providing an \"exemplary\" government. It was a promise that was an invitation to dig. Accordingly, the investigative website M\u00e9diapart dug. It revealed that the budget minister, Jerome Cahuzac, had salted away \u20ac500,000 in a Swiss bank account. He compounded his tax avoidance by repeated denials. Last month, he admitted it and resigned.Mr Hollande, whose ratings are already lower even than his predecessor's, responded by announcing that his ministers would publish the details of their private wealth at the start of this week. His strategy is clear enough: impose political transparency (shooting France from somewhere near the bottom of the league table to somewhere near the top), clamp down on tax havens, and win back popular support.He is not the only European leader who finds himself embarrassed. Spain's prime minister Mariano Rajoy is accused of tax dodging, and novelty candidates representing none-of-the-above, like Beppe Grillo's Five Star Movement in Italy, make sweeping gains on the back of voter cynicism. Tax irregularities that might have been tolerated in better times are now pounced upon as confirmation that all politicians have noses in the trough. In Britain too. Yesterday, Downing Street renewed a promise David Cameron made a year ago to insist on publication of ministerial tax returns.There is little evidence that President Hollande's gesture will achieve its purpose. Commentators on the left and the right criticise what they say is a lurch from transparency to voyeurism. According to one poll, 70% of voters are uninterested in hearing about the accumulated wealth of the governing class. What they care about is corruption in the wider sense. Mr Hollande's problems did not begin with his dishonest minister. It is just that, compared with the others \u2013 tackling the economy or instigating tax increases \u2013 he is simply the easiest to deal with.", "tags": ["France", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France: politicians unpacked | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-05-16T21:55:31Z", "country": "france", "content": "The run-up to Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's second press conference of his presidency could not have been less auspicious. France had just slipped back into recession, purchasing power had just dropped by 0.9 %, the heaviest fall in 30 years, and unemployment was at an all-time high. But to listen to the president, you would have thought that the French ship of state was on course.If, in the president's words, his first year in power had been about bringing France's public spending under control (at 56% of GDP it is still nine points above Germany's) and putting the eurozone on the right track, the second year would see France going on the offensive. Now you may think, having seen most of his predictions for his first year in office crash in flames, Mr Hollande would be loath to create any more hostages to fortune. Not a bit of it. Mr Hollande called for the establishment of an economic government in the eurozone that would have: its own budget, debt, harmonised tax system and full-time president; a \u20ac6bn European youth programme; a pan-European energy policy; and more integration in the eurozone. As a founder member of the EU, it was France's responsibility to pull the sick, declining, doubting continent out of its torpor, the president said. Meanwhile, Angela Merkel was saying the opposite. Rejecting the idea of pooling debt, she stressed the importance of French reforms and each government getting their own finances in order. Apart from the hint Mr Hollande made that he will reform a pension system that is bust and that is borrowing from the markets, the distance between the two parts of the so called European motor is wide enough.A more pressing task for Mr Hollande surely is to persuade a French audience he is capable of pulling his country out of its torpor. And on that test, he is failing. In January, he vowed to bring unemployment down by the end of the year. YesterdayOn Thursday, he said it was still \"possible\" to reverse the trend. He expressed complete faith in his prime minister, Jean-Marc Ayrault, but vowed there would be no reshuffle \"for now\". There is no doubting Mr Hollande's honesty.Nor is he looking for popularity. But there are strong doubts whether he has the strength to swim against the currents pulling him under. He is neither cutting fast enough to satisfy the austerity meisters of Berlin, nor is he reflating the economy. France enjoys the cheapest borrowing rates on the bond markets for decades, but is loath to use them. The US shows what even a small stimulus can produce.Instead, Mr Hollande's strategy for growth relies on the rest of the sick eurozone supplying the demand that French exports need. There is nothing to indicate that will happen any time soon. Mr Hollande may well come to the podium next year pleading for more time.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France: waiting for Godot"},{"date": "2013-04-15T21:12:40Z", "country": "france", "content": "So now we know: the French pensions minister Mich\u00e8le Delaunay has accrued a \u20ac5m private fortune, including \u20ac10,000 worth of watches, Arnaud Montebourg, the industry renewal minister, has a Charles Eames chair, and the culture minister has declared a David Beckham T-shirt. These are the headlines of the great unpacking \u2013 le grand d\u00e9ballage \u2013 that has French politics reeling.France's politicians are notoriously a very private class. From Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand's second family to Dominique Strauss-Kahn's serial philandering, their private lives traditionally stay a closed book. Finances are treated even more circumspectly. But with one past president, Jacques Chirac, convicted of corruption, and another, Nicolas Sarkozy, under investigation, there is a new mood. Perhaps unwisely, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande had campaigned on the promise of providing an \"exemplary\" government. It was a promise that was an invitation to dig. Accordingly, the investigative website M\u00e9diapart dug. It revealed that the budget minister, Jerome Cahuzac, had salted away \u20ac500,000 in a Swiss bank account. He compounded his tax avoidance by repeated denials. Last month, he admitted it and resigned.Mr Hollande, whose ratings are already lower even than his predecessor's, responded by announcing that his ministers would publish the details of their private wealth at the start of this week. His strategy is clear enough: impose political transparency (shooting France from somewhere near the bottom of the league table to somewhere near the top), clamp down on tax havens, and win back popular support.He is not the only European leader who finds himself embarrassed. Spain's prime minister Mariano Rajoy is accused of tax dodging, and novelty candidates representing none-of-the-above, like Beppe Grillo's Five Star Movement in Italy, make sweeping gains on the back of voter cynicism. Tax irregularities that might have been tolerated in better times are now pounced upon as confirmation that all politicians have noses in the trough. In Britain too. Yesterday, Downing Street renewed a promise David Cameron made a year ago to insist on publication of ministerial tax returns.There is little evidence that President Hollande's gesture will achieve its purpose. Commentators on the left and the right criticise what they say is a lurch from transparency to voyeurism. According to one poll, 70% of voters are uninterested in hearing about the accumulated wealth of the governing class. What they care about is corruption in the wider sense. Mr Hollande's problems did not begin with his dishonest minister. It is just that, compared with the others \u2013 tackling the economy or instigating tax increases \u2013 he is simply the easiest to deal with.", "tags": ["France", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France: politicians unpacked | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-06-04T13:01:16Z", "country": "france", "content": "On 12 December 2012, after 10 months' restoration work and silence, the great organ of Notre Dame de Paris \u2013 the largest in France, with five keyboards, 109 stops and nearly 8,000 pipes \u2013 opened the festivities for the cathedral's 850th anniversary. But this fine tree, which is public property, hides a forest of 234 other organs in the capital, many in poor repair. Of these, 126 (including 32 historical monuments) are the responsibility of the city council under the law of 1905 separating church and state.\"Paris has the privilege of being the public authority which owns the most organs in the world,\" says Catherine Hubault, head of the council's heritage and history department. \"Our annual budget of \u20ac250,000 ($320,000) is just enough to do limited upkeep on about 15 instruments. But we have to plan restoration jobs which may cost, depending on the instrument, between \u20ac500,000 and \u20ac1.5m, as was the case for the organs at Saint Louis en l'\u00eele, which were restored in 2004. Since then we have spent about \u20ac3.5m.\"The budget is totally inadequate, according to Eric Brottier, organ expert to the city council. He carried out a full inventory when he started work in 2005. \"The situation is alarming,\" he says. \"Two-thirds of the organs need major repairs, whereas all we can do is patch up those in most urgent need of attention.\"The outlook is gloomy. The funds allocated to the city's religious heritage have plummeted in the past 15 years. \"Between 2000 and 2013, the amount fell from \u20ac120m to \u20ac60m, whereas the overall budget rose from \u20ac3bn to \u20ac8bn,\" says Maxime Cumunel, head of the Observatory of Religious Heritage (OPR).Apart from normal wear and tear the dust and pollution in cities are key factors in the deterioration of organs. Nor does dry air from heating systems help.Brottier complains that organs are generally poorly maintained by individual parishes. Furthermore, \"repair work on the rest of the building often harms inadequately protected instruments\", he adds. \"At Saint-Pierre de Montrouge, we found lots of sand and stones inside the organ after work on the bell tower.\" Setting aside financial worries, the image of organs has lost its sparkle. \"Organists do their best to change mindsets, but most people associate them with religious services. Added to which they're mysterious, complicated instruments often seen as boring,\" says Benjamin Alard, the organist at the church of Saint Louis en l'\u00eele, which boasts a superb specimen built by Bernard Aubertin.Falling between two stools \u2013 part artistic, part religious \u2013 organs are increasingly sidelined as church attendance dwindles in France. \"Faced with the choice between public welfare and organ repairs, local councils always favour welfare,\" says Cumunel. \"For organs to justify subsidies they must serve a social purpose, in other words be used for concerts and teaching.\"But they remain an essential part of local identity, with all the emotional weight that carries. \"We weren't able to save Saint Jacques church at Abbeville in the Somme [in northern France],\" says Roland Galtier, an organ technician employed by the Monuments Historiques organisation. \"But the organ, a 1906 Mutin/Cavaill\u00e9-Coll, was rescued.\"The prospects for the next 20 years look bleak. But organs have plenty going for them. France has one of the most highly rated schools for organists, even if the high-profile stars of the past \u2013 such as Marcel Dupr\u00e9, Pierre Cochereau and Marie-Claire Alain \u2013 have been followed by equally talented but less well-known virtuosos. It also boasts some excellent organ builders, whose skills have won recognition in many places, particularly the US, Japan and more recently Russia. \"We are nevertheless worried about the future,\" says Yves Fossaert, an organ-builder based in Seine et Marne, east of Paris, who has just restored a 19th-century symphonic organ, built by Aristide Cavaill\u00e9-Coll, in the Pentemont Protestant church in Paris. \"Many projects are being postponed, which makes it difficult for young people entering the trade.\"To reverse this trend, advocates highlight the need for the instruments once more to play a central role in concert halls. In France only the Auditorium Maurice Ravel, in Lyon, still has an organ, an old Cavaill\u00e9-Coll (82 stops, 6,500 pipes) purchased from the Palais de Trocad\u00e9ro in Paris in 1977. The Palais Garnier lost its organ when Rolf Liebermann was at the helm of the opera house. But Radio France is building a new auditorium and, after selling its Danion-Gonzalez to Lille cathedral for next to nothing, it has suddenly changed its mind and commissioned an 86-stop Grenzing instrument. The new Paris Philharmonic Hall plans to have an organ too.Another solution may be to take advantage of the current fashion for playing live music in cinemas during the projection of a film. An organ is currently being built for a cinema in La Ciotat, near Marseille, according to Philippe Lefebvre, one of the organists at Notre Dame. He wonders whether this idea might not catch on with old movie houses in the capital, if only to show that \"organs are more than just machines for pumping out hymns\".This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporated material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Paris", "France", "Culture", "Music", "Classical music"], "title": "Why France is suffering from organ failure"},{"date": "2013-09-20T20:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The plateau de Millevaches is a granite upland on the western edge of the Massif Central, one hour east of Limoges. A wild, depopulated area of moors, forests, rivers and lakes, it is increasingly becoming repopulated by \"green\" tourists looking for destinations off the beaten track.Visitors may not encounter a thousand cows on the plateau de Millevaches \u2013 the ancient name is actually thought to mean a thousand springs, which could be why it is so green. But they might be surprised by what they do discover among these woods and hills, which is that the area has become a destination for lovers of modern art.In the middle of the plateau is the Lac de Vassivi\u00e8re, a 1,000-hectare lake with five beaches and three mini ports. On an island linked by a causeway to the mainland, is the Centre International d'Art et du Paysage. It's a modern complex of hi-tech exhibition spaces, a symbolic lighthouse, artists' residences and a remarkably well-stocked art bookshop.It's made even more special by the fact that the rest of the island is a renowned sculpture park, with a trademark Andy Goldsworthy stone wall unfurling out of the woods and sliding into the lake itself. There are now more than 60 individual works on the island and the centre provides a free map so that you can hunt them down.A startling recent acquisition from Russian artist Alexander Ponomarev is a decommissioned, redecorated Russian submarine anchored off the shore. Ponomarev is a former nautical engineer, and the sub in its transformed role certainly breaks the conversational ice. Combining art and utility is a new work by Paris based Korean artist Koo Jeong-A called Otro, a sunken complex of bowls, cradles and tunnels that doubles as a skate park.The centre's director, Marianne Lanav\u00e8re, arrived last year bringing fresh energy and imagination to the site. Her bold programme of conferences, concerts and partnerships is attracting new visitors from all over France and beyond. It has just opened its own art lending library, or artoth\u00e8que, where local residents can borrow graphic art from the collection to display in their homes.A short drive away in the ancient town of Eymoutiers is another centre of excellence. Espace Paul Rebeyrolle pays homage to an enfant du pays, who could be called the French Francis Bacon. His large-scale canvases set out dark, violent, distorted figurative narratives that explore themes of hostile nature and political oppression.In addition to the permanent collection of paintings, monumental sculptures, drawings and prints, there is a temporary exhibition every summer by a modern master. In the past these have included Mir\u00f3, Chagall and Picasso.Further south, 30km away through beautiful oak and pine forests, is the pretty slate and granite town of Treignac. Here a young couple from London, Sam Basu and Liz Murray, have taken an audacious gamble. They are gradually restoring an old mill and factory complex in an idyllic setting in the centre of town by an old stone bridge.They already have a two-floor industrial exhibition space called the Treignac Project and invite over 30 international artists for residences and workshops each year. Matt Packer, curator of the Lewis Glucksman Gallery in Cork, Ireland, is now the artistic director.The Treignac Project's reputation is spreading and it has some ambitious plans. Up to now the town has been known primarily for luxury chocolatier Borzeix-Besse which has been making chocs, sweets and patisserie here for over a century. But now the town's own mini Tate Modern is attracting new visitors.The plateau ranges in altitude from 600 metres to almost 1,000. Its southerly latitude means that hot summers (often well over 30C) make the lakes heat up, offering pleasant swimming in 22C water. In the winter, temperatures drop well below zero and there is plenty of snow.The most attractive season is probably autumn, which can be warm and moist. There is a gold and yellow light show as the leaves change colour and the woods are filled with cep and chanterelle mushrooms. The plateau is also an official parc naturel r\u00e9gional which means extra protection for the fauna and flora and a controlled environmental strategy.The Limousin region has recognised the growing importance of a strategic focus on cultural tourism, to add to its already green credentials. These modern art destinations are just three examples from a network of 15 venues in the area.\u2022 Le Verrou (+33 5 55 69 98 04, leverrou.co.uk), in the peaceful village of Nedde, is a typical rural auberge well-placed for visiting all these centres. It has 10 bedrooms including two family suites (doubles from \u20ac75, set menu using local produce \u20ac23). In Eymoutiers, La Cave (2 boulevard Karl Marx, +33 5 55 69 45 34) is a busy restaurant with a terrace on the main square. And tucked away in a side street is a small cafe/restaurant called Cuisine et Compagnie (5 rue de la R\u00e9publique, +33 5 55 36 29 45) which has a daily changing menu of surprising quality and innovation given the low prices. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies to Limoges from Stansted, Bristol, East Midlands, Leeds-Bradford, and Liverpool from \u00a328 one-way. FlyBe (flybe.com) flies from Newcastle and Southampton from \u00a380 one-wayA newly protected area of bogland, woods and lakes, Lough Boora contains a 40-acre sculpture park whose huge works were largely inspired by the industrial legacy of the region. Exhibits include a train sculpture by Irish artist Mike Bulfin, celebrating the Bord na Mona peat-digging machines and the men who operated them, and a stone pyramid by Eileen MacDonagh. \u2022 Open all year dawn to dusk, free, loughbooraparklands.com/sculptureSculptor Gintaras Karosas established this open-air gallery in 1991 as the cold war was ending, as an expression of the brave new future. Over 100 large works by sculptors from around the world are displayed in clearings and woodland. They look particularly striking amid autumn colours.\u2022 Open all year, adults \u00a36, children \u00a32.60, europosparkas.ltEstablished to promote and commission the best of contemporary sculpture, the Cass Foundation presents regularly changing displays of 80 enormous works set in 26 acres of rolling countryside on the Goodwood estate. Artists involved have included Anthony Caro and Eduardo Paolozzi.\u2022 Open daily until 3 November, adults \u00a310, five-16s \u00a35, sculpture.org.uk This 4,000-hectare park in southern Sweden contains a dedicated area of outdoor installations conceived on site. The permanent collection of about 50 works includes sculptures by Dan Graham, Kari Caven and Per Kirkeby.\u2022 Open weekends to end-October, adult \u00a35.80, under-18s free, wanas.seA boat balanced on top of a sharp, grassy ridge, an artificial red tree standing in a woody grove \u2026 50 cutting-edge sculptures are spread across this seven-hectare landscaped sculpture park 7km south of Graz. It contains works by a wide variety of artists, from Austrian \"visual poet\" Heinz Gappmayr to Yoko Ono.\u2022 Open daily to end-October, adult \u20ac11, children over six \u20ac4, museum-joanneum.at", "tags": ["France holidays", "Art", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art and design"], "title": "Absolutely Massif: contemporary art in rural France"},{"date": "2013-09-20T20:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The plateau de Millevaches is a granite upland on the western edge of the Massif Central, one hour east of Limoges. A wild, depopulated area of moors, forests, rivers and lakes, it is increasingly becoming repopulated by \"green\" tourists looking for destinations off the beaten track.Visitors may not encounter a thousand cows on the plateau de Millevaches \u2013 the ancient name is actually thought to mean a thousand springs, which could be why it is so green. But they might be surprised by what they do discover among these woods and hills, which is that the area has become a destination for lovers of modern art.In the middle of the plateau is the Lac de Vassivi\u00e8re, a 1,000-hectare lake with five beaches and three mini ports. On an island linked by a causeway to the mainland, is the Centre International d'Art et du Paysage. It's a modern complex of hi-tech exhibition spaces, a symbolic lighthouse, artists' residences and a remarkably well-stocked art bookshop.It's made even more special by the fact that the rest of the island is a renowned sculpture park, with a trademark Andy Goldsworthy stone wall unfurling out of the woods and sliding into the lake itself. There are now more than 60 individual works on the island and the centre provides a free map so that you can hunt them down.A startling recent acquisition from Russian artist Alexander Ponomarev is a decommissioned, redecorated Russian submarine anchored off the shore. Ponomarev is a former nautical engineer, and the sub in its transformed role certainly breaks the conversational ice. Combining art and utility is a new work by Paris based Korean artist Koo Jeong-A called Otro, a sunken complex of bowls, cradles and tunnels that doubles as a skate park.The centre's director, Marianne Lanav\u00e8re, arrived last year bringing fresh energy and imagination to the site. Her bold programme of conferences, concerts and partnerships is attracting new visitors from all over France and beyond. It has just opened its own art lending library, or artoth\u00e8que, where local residents can borrow graphic art from the collection to display in their homes.A short drive away in the ancient town of Eymoutiers is another centre of excellence. Espace Paul Rebeyrolle pays homage to an enfant du pays, who could be called the French Francis Bacon. His large-scale canvases set out dark, violent, distorted figurative narratives that explore themes of hostile nature and political oppression.In addition to the permanent collection of paintings, monumental sculptures, drawings and prints, there is a temporary exhibition every summer by a modern master. In the past these have included Mir\u00f3, Chagall and Picasso.Further south, 30km away through beautiful oak and pine forests, is the pretty slate and granite town of Treignac. Here a young couple from London, Sam Basu and Liz Murray, have taken an audacious gamble. They are gradually restoring an old mill and factory complex in an idyllic setting in the centre of town by an old stone bridge.They already have a two-floor industrial exhibition space called the Treignac Project and invite over 30 international artists for residences and workshops each year. Matt Packer, curator of the Lewis Glucksman Gallery in Cork, Ireland, is now the artistic director.The Treignac Project's reputation is spreading and it has some ambitious plans. Up to now the town has been known primarily for luxury chocolatier Borzeix-Besse which has been making chocs, sweets and patisserie here for over a century. But now the town's own mini Tate Modern is attracting new visitors.The plateau ranges in altitude from 600 metres to almost 1,000. Its southerly latitude means that hot summers (often well over 30C) make the lakes heat up, offering pleasant swimming in 22C water. In the winter, temperatures drop well below zero and there is plenty of snow.The most attractive season is probably autumn, which can be warm and moist. There is a gold and yellow light show as the leaves change colour and the woods are filled with cep and chanterelle mushrooms. The plateau is also an official parc naturel r\u00e9gional which means extra protection for the fauna and flora and a controlled environmental strategy.The Limousin region has recognised the growing importance of a strategic focus on cultural tourism, to add to its already green credentials. These modern art destinations are just three examples from a network of 15 venues in the area.\u2022 Le Verrou (+33 5 55 69 98 04, leverrou.co.uk), in the peaceful village of Nedde, is a typical rural auberge well-placed for visiting all these centres. It has 10 bedrooms including two family suites (doubles from \u20ac75, set menu using local produce \u20ac23). In Eymoutiers, La Cave (2 boulevard Karl Marx, +33 5 55 69 45 34) is a busy restaurant with a terrace on the main square. And tucked away in a side street is a small cafe/restaurant called Cuisine et Compagnie (5 rue de la R\u00e9publique, +33 5 55 36 29 45) which has a daily changing menu of surprising quality and innovation given the low prices. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies to Limoges from Stansted, Bristol, East Midlands, Leeds-Bradford, and Liverpool from \u00a328 one-way. FlyBe (flybe.com) flies from Newcastle and Southampton from \u00a380 one-wayA newly protected area of bogland, woods and lakes, Lough Boora contains a 40-acre sculpture park whose huge works were largely inspired by the industrial legacy of the region. Exhibits include a train sculpture by Irish artist Mike Bulfin, celebrating the Bord na Mona peat-digging machines and the men who operated them, and a stone pyramid by Eileen MacDonagh. \u2022 Open all year dawn to dusk, free, loughbooraparklands.com/sculptureSculptor Gintaras Karosas established this open-air gallery in 1991 as the cold war was ending, as an expression of the brave new future. Over 100 large works by sculptors from around the world are displayed in clearings and woodland. They look particularly striking amid autumn colours.\u2022 Open all year, adults \u00a36, children \u00a32.60, europosparkas.ltEstablished to promote and commission the best of contemporary sculpture, the Cass Foundation presents regularly changing displays of 80 enormous works set in 26 acres of rolling countryside on the Goodwood estate. Artists involved have included Anthony Caro and Eduardo Paolozzi.\u2022 Open daily until 3 November, adults \u00a310, five-16s \u00a35, sculpture.org.uk This 4,000-hectare park in southern Sweden contains a dedicated area of outdoor installations conceived on site. The permanent collection of about 50 works includes sculptures by Dan Graham, Kari Caven and Per Kirkeby.\u2022 Open weekends to end-October, adult \u00a35.80, under-18s free, wanas.seA boat balanced on top of a sharp, grassy ridge, an artificial red tree standing in a woody grove \u2026 50 cutting-edge sculptures are spread across this seven-hectare landscaped sculpture park 7km south of Graz. It contains works by a wide variety of artists, from Austrian \"visual poet\" Heinz Gappmayr to Yoko Ono.\u2022 Open daily to end-October, adult \u20ac11, children over six \u20ac4, museum-joanneum.at", "tags": ["France holidays", "Art", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art and design"], "title": "Absolutely Massif: contemporary art in rural France"},{"date": "2013-09-06T20:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "'That couple there, the Jacobs, live opposite me. They're one of the old farming families of La Grave. He's almost 100,\" says our guide, Katarina, waving, as we make our way down the narrow street lined with stone houses, and past the 11th-century Notre Dame de l'Assomption church.We join the main street of La Grave \u2013 in the Massif des Ecrins area of the French Alps and best known as a mecca for off-piste and extreme skiers \u2013 and pass a handful of shops and bars, Katarina naming almost every person we see.\"This is my boyfriend, Pascal. He's a mountain guide,\" she says. \"Pascal, this is Nicola and Chrigl. They're visiting, but I've told them that after three days in La Grave they'll want to move here.\"It's a bold statement, but that's exactly what happened to Katarina. She came here from Slovakia for a ski season eight years ago and never left. \"There's no place quite like it,\" she says.Directly below the 3,984m Meije (La Grave's answer to the Matterhorn), the village feels untarnished by the fast, tourist-driven economies and commercialisation of many ski resorts. And yet the greatest names in skiing and alpinism cut their teeth here, on some of the longest, steepest, most extreme descents on the planet.But, contrary to what I'd thought, La Grave isn't just about skiing. In summer, once the snow starts to melt, terrain that is inaccessible to anyone without skis, crampons or ropes opens up, with 668km of maintained trails spanning the Ecrins national park. You can keep it simple with day trips, stay overnight in a mountain refuge, or (as of last summer) bed down in a traditional Mongolian yurt \u2013 on a farm at the end of the valley, a gentle two-and-a-half-hour walk away. It's there that we're heading with Katarina.We've parked in Le Chazelet, a historic hamlet above the La Grave valley, and have set off on a trail north that follows the Torrent du G\u00e2. Kids are swinging off ropes into the water (I don't blame them \u2013 the mercury is hitting 30C). We climb gradually and pass through three hamlets, aptly called Low, Middle and High Village. Katarina tells us stories about life in these hills \u2013 the way locals keep their valuables in their mazots (small outhouse-like chalets) in case of a house fire \u2013 while pointing out wild spinach, absinthe and gentians (there are 1,800 plant species in the Ecrins).It's not just flora that Katarina has an eye for but fauna too: from the bearded vultures circling overhead to the marmots I manage to spot just as their fat bottoms disappear into a hole. I have an excuse: the views are proving a distraction. I had expected drama, but this is something else. Behind us towers the mighty Meije, its snowy glacier crumbling into precipitous seracs (columns of ice formed by intersecting glaciers), which give way to great expanses of rock, and eventually trees, grass and pasture. The intricacies are mesmerising. In front of us, the trail twists through the valley, past prairies carpeted with wild flowers, before disappearing between big green peaks.Suddenly we see them: two white specs by the river, below the 3,020m Pic du Mas de la Grave \u2026 the yurts. We are greeted by owner Fafu (who lives in the adjacent farmhouse with his wife Pascaline and two children) and a round of cold beers. There are two yurts: one is for sleeping, with a log burner and double-bunk beds for eight, piled with blankets; the other is the kitchen, where Fafu makes meals for his guests, and serves them at a big wooden table. Outside is the shower (a tap with spring water and a bucket) and outhouse.Dinner is served: quiche made with eggs from the farm, followed by beef and onion daube (stew), brownies, and the best g\u00e9n\u00e9pi liqueur I've tasted, made by Fafu's dad. The evening unfolds as the Meije becomes bathed in pink alpenglow. We scale the hill opposite the yurts with Fafu's kids to watch Pascaline round up their 2,500 sheep and 20 goats. We help milk a goat (the family make their own goat's cheese) before returning to the yurts as it's getting dark. We wrap up in blankets and sit out under the stars: it's the annual Perseid meteor shower and the sky is ablaze.The next morning we wake to whistling marmots and a breakfast of homemade bread and jam, before setting off on what will be a seven-hour hike back to Le Chazelet (covering a total of 23km over two days).The initial section, across the river and up to the Col des Trente Combes, is steep and rocky; I rely on my walking sticks like they're extra limbs. There are a couple of hours' respite as we weave through the grassy valley past shepherds' huts, pausing for sandwiches. Then it's another ascent, up to the Emparis plateau. The view from the top is fantastic: the Lac Noir (which is actually deep blue) backed by the Meije, with the ski resorts of Les Deux Alps to our right, and Alpe d'Huez behind. We drop down the other side and join an ancient mule track down to Le Chazelet.After beers on the terrace of Hotel Castillan \u2013 a renowned apr\u00e8s-ski hang-out in the centre of La Grave \u2013 it's an early dinner and then bed at the Auberge aux 3 Fr\u00eanes in nearby Villar d'Ar\u00e8ne.The following day we join a guided walk on the Girose glacier. Chrigl and I ride the Wonka-like cable car up to 3,173m. There are 11 in our group, and our guide, Thomas, helps us put on our crampons, while roping us all together.It's a slow, steady march up to the seracs at the top of the glacier. The crunchy ice is a stark contrast with the lush green meadows we were walking among yesterday. Thomas points to shallow ripples in the snow: crevasses up to 80m deep, covered with the remaining blanket of this year's late snowfall. The rope was a good idea. He explains to us how glaciers form and how to read them for \u2013 relatively \u2013 safe places to stand.It's warm, even at this altitude. Above us, alpine choughs ride the thermals. Some people say the birds, nicknamed becs jaunes for their distinctive yellow beaks, are the spirits of skiers and climbers lost. Whether or not that's true, as we pause briefly to take in the tumbling view of the glacier, rock and valley below, I reflect that even if we don't do like Katarina and move here, a small piece of me will forever be soaring and swooping over these magical peaks.\u2022 Accommodation was provided by la-grave.com. La Yourte Des Bergers (+33 6 8296 2635, layourtedesbergers.fr) has one-night stays from \u20ac38 adults, \u20ac30 kids, including dinner and breakfast. Auberge aux 3 Fr\u00eanes (+33 4 7679 9065, 3frenes.com) has doubles from \u20ac39pp B&B. Hotel Castillan (+33 4 7679 9004, castillan.pagesperso-orange.fr) has doubles from \u20ac42pppn. To hire a guide contact the Bureau des Guides (+33 4 7679 9021, guidelagrave.com). For information on walking routes visit cheminsdavant.com. The glacier workshop at the festival costs \u20ac30 adults, \u20ac30 kids, including lift ticket, glacier walk, equipment hire and lunch. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Lyon (two hours' drive away) from six British airports from \u00a358 return", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Alps holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Autumn hiking in La Grave, France"},{"date": "2013-09-20T20:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "The plateau de Millevaches is a granite upland on the western edge of the Massif Central, one hour east of Limoges. A wild, depopulated area of moors, forests, rivers and lakes, it is increasingly becoming repopulated by \"green\" tourists looking for destinations off the beaten track.Visitors may not encounter a thousand cows on the plateau de Millevaches \u2013 the ancient name is actually thought to mean a thousand springs, which could be why it is so green. But they might be surprised by what they do discover among these woods and hills, which is that the area has become a destination for lovers of modern art.In the middle of the plateau is the Lac de Vassivi\u00e8re, a 1,000-hectare lake with five beaches and three mini ports. On an island linked by a causeway to the mainland, is the Centre International d'Art et du Paysage. It's a modern complex of hi-tech exhibition spaces, a symbolic lighthouse, artists' residences and a remarkably well-stocked art bookshop.It's made even more special by the fact that the rest of the island is a renowned sculpture park, with a trademark Andy Goldsworthy stone wall unfurling out of the woods and sliding into the lake itself. There are now more than 60 individual works on the island and the centre provides a free map so that you can hunt them down.A startling recent acquisition from Russian artist Alexander Ponomarev is a decommissioned, redecorated Russian submarine anchored off the shore. Ponomarev is a former nautical engineer, and the sub in its transformed role certainly breaks the conversational ice. Combining art and utility is a new work by Paris based Korean artist Koo Jeong-A called Otro, a sunken complex of bowls, cradles and tunnels that doubles as a skate park.The centre's director, Marianne Lanav\u00e8re, arrived last year bringing fresh energy and imagination to the site. Her bold programme of conferences, concerts and partnerships is attracting new visitors from all over France and beyond. It has just opened its own art lending library, or artoth\u00e8que, where local residents can borrow graphic art from the collection to display in their homes.A short drive away in the ancient town of Eymoutiers is another centre of excellence. Espace Paul Rebeyrolle pays homage to an enfant du pays, who could be called the French Francis Bacon. His large-scale canvases set out dark, violent, distorted figurative narratives that explore themes of hostile nature and political oppression.In addition to the permanent collection of paintings, monumental sculptures, drawings and prints, there is a temporary exhibition every summer by a modern master. In the past these have included Mir\u00f3, Chagall and Picasso.Further south, 30km away through beautiful oak and pine forests, is the pretty slate and granite town of Treignac. Here a young couple from London, Sam Basu and Liz Murray, have taken an audacious gamble. They are gradually restoring an old mill and factory complex in an idyllic setting in the centre of town by an old stone bridge.They already have a two-floor industrial exhibition space called the Treignac Project and invite over 30 international artists for residences and workshops each year. Matt Packer, curator of the Lewis Glucksman Gallery in Cork, Ireland, is now the artistic director.The Treignac Project's reputation is spreading and it has some ambitious plans. Up to now the town has been known primarily for luxury chocolatier Borzeix-Besse which has been making chocs, sweets and patisserie here for over a century. But now the town's own mini Tate Modern is attracting new visitors.The plateau ranges in altitude from 600 metres to almost 1,000. Its southerly latitude means that hot summers (often well over 30C) make the lakes heat up, offering pleasant swimming in 22C water. In the winter, temperatures drop well below zero and there is plenty of snow.The most attractive season is probably autumn, which can be warm and moist. There is a gold and yellow light show as the leaves change colour and the woods are filled with cep and chanterelle mushrooms. The plateau is also an official parc naturel r\u00e9gional which means extra protection for the fauna and flora and a controlled environmental strategy.The Limousin region has recognised the growing importance of a strategic focus on cultural tourism, to add to its already green credentials. These modern art destinations are just three examples from a network of 15 venues in the area.\u2022 Le Verrou (+33 5 55 69 98 04, leverrou.co.uk), in the peaceful village of Nedde, is a typical rural auberge well-placed for visiting all these centres. It has 10 bedrooms including two family suites (doubles from \u20ac75, set menu using local produce \u20ac23). In Eymoutiers, La Cave (2 boulevard Karl Marx, +33 5 55 69 45 34) is a busy restaurant with a terrace on the main square. And tucked away in a side street is a small cafe/restaurant called Cuisine et Compagnie (5 rue de la R\u00e9publique, +33 5 55 36 29 45) which has a daily changing menu of surprising quality and innovation given the low prices. Ryanair (ryanair.com) flies to Limoges from Stansted, Bristol, East Midlands, Leeds-Bradford, and Liverpool from \u00a328 one-way. FlyBe (flybe.com) flies from Newcastle and Southampton from \u00a380 one-wayA newly protected area of bogland, woods and lakes, Lough Boora contains a 40-acre sculpture park whose huge works were largely inspired by the industrial legacy of the region. Exhibits include a train sculpture by Irish artist Mike Bulfin, celebrating the Bord na Mona peat-digging machines and the men who operated them, and a stone pyramid by Eileen MacDonagh. \u2022 Open all year dawn to dusk, free, loughbooraparklands.com/sculptureSculptor Gintaras Karosas established this open-air gallery in 1991 as the cold war was ending, as an expression of the brave new future. Over 100 large works by sculptors from around the world are displayed in clearings and woodland. They look particularly striking amid autumn colours.\u2022 Open all year, adults \u00a36, children \u00a32.60, europosparkas.ltEstablished to promote and commission the best of contemporary sculpture, the Cass Foundation presents regularly changing displays of 80 enormous works set in 26 acres of rolling countryside on the Goodwood estate. Artists involved have included Anthony Caro and Eduardo Paolozzi.\u2022 Open daily until 3 November, adults \u00a310, five-16s \u00a35, sculpture.org.uk This 4,000-hectare park in southern Sweden contains a dedicated area of outdoor installations conceived on site. The permanent collection of about 50 works includes sculptures by Dan Graham, Kari Caven and Per Kirkeby.\u2022 Open weekends to end-October, adult \u00a35.80, under-18s free, wanas.seA boat balanced on top of a sharp, grassy ridge, an artificial red tree standing in a woody grove \u2026 50 cutting-edge sculptures are spread across this seven-hectare landscaped sculpture park 7km south of Graz. It contains works by a wide variety of artists, from Austrian \"visual poet\" Heinz Gappmayr to Yoko Ono.\u2022 Open daily to end-October, adult \u20ac11, children over six \u20ac4, museum-joanneum.at", "tags": ["France holidays", "Art", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art and design"], "title": "Absolutely Massif: contemporary art in rural France"},{"date": "2013-09-06T20:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "'That couple there, the Jacobs, live opposite me. They're one of the old farming families of La Grave. He's almost 100,\" says our guide, Katarina, waving, as we make our way down the narrow street lined with stone houses, and past the 11th-century Notre Dame de l'Assomption church.We join the main street of La Grave \u2013 in the Massif des Ecrins area of the French Alps and best known as a mecca for off-piste and extreme skiers \u2013 and pass a handful of shops and bars, Katarina naming almost every person we see.\"This is my boyfriend, Pascal. He's a mountain guide,\" she says. \"Pascal, this is Nicola and Chrigl. They're visiting, but I've told them that after three days in La Grave they'll want to move here.\"It's a bold statement, but that's exactly what happened to Katarina. She came here from Slovakia for a ski season eight years ago and never left. \"There's no place quite like it,\" she says.Directly below the 3,984m Meije (La Grave's answer to the Matterhorn), the village feels untarnished by the fast, tourist-driven economies and commercialisation of many ski resorts. And yet the greatest names in skiing and alpinism cut their teeth here, on some of the longest, steepest, most extreme descents on the planet.But, contrary to what I'd thought, La Grave isn't just about skiing. In summer, once the snow starts to melt, terrain that is inaccessible to anyone without skis, crampons or ropes opens up, with 668km of maintained trails spanning the Ecrins national park. You can keep it simple with day trips, stay overnight in a mountain refuge, or (as of last summer) bed down in a traditional Mongolian yurt \u2013 on a farm at the end of the valley, a gentle two-and-a-half-hour walk away. It's there that we're heading with Katarina.We've parked in Le Chazelet, a historic hamlet above the La Grave valley, and have set off on a trail north that follows the Torrent du G\u00e2. Kids are swinging off ropes into the water (I don't blame them \u2013 the mercury is hitting 30C). We climb gradually and pass through three hamlets, aptly called Low, Middle and High Village. Katarina tells us stories about life in these hills \u2013 the way locals keep their valuables in their mazots (small outhouse-like chalets) in case of a house fire \u2013 while pointing out wild spinach, absinthe and gentians (there are 1,800 plant species in the Ecrins).It's not just flora that Katarina has an eye for but fauna too: from the bearded vultures circling overhead to the marmots I manage to spot just as their fat bottoms disappear into a hole. I have an excuse: the views are proving a distraction. I had expected drama, but this is something else. Behind us towers the mighty Meije, its snowy glacier crumbling into precipitous seracs (columns of ice formed by intersecting glaciers), which give way to great expanses of rock, and eventually trees, grass and pasture. The intricacies are mesmerising. In front of us, the trail twists through the valley, past prairies carpeted with wild flowers, before disappearing between big green peaks.Suddenly we see them: two white specs by the river, below the 3,020m Pic du Mas de la Grave \u2026 the yurts. We are greeted by owner Fafu (who lives in the adjacent farmhouse with his wife Pascaline and two children) and a round of cold beers. There are two yurts: one is for sleeping, with a log burner and double-bunk beds for eight, piled with blankets; the other is the kitchen, where Fafu makes meals for his guests, and serves them at a big wooden table. Outside is the shower (a tap with spring water and a bucket) and outhouse.Dinner is served: quiche made with eggs from the farm, followed by beef and onion daube (stew), brownies, and the best g\u00e9n\u00e9pi liqueur I've tasted, made by Fafu's dad. The evening unfolds as the Meije becomes bathed in pink alpenglow. We scale the hill opposite the yurts with Fafu's kids to watch Pascaline round up their 2,500 sheep and 20 goats. We help milk a goat (the family make their own goat's cheese) before returning to the yurts as it's getting dark. We wrap up in blankets and sit out under the stars: it's the annual Perseid meteor shower and the sky is ablaze.The next morning we wake to whistling marmots and a breakfast of homemade bread and jam, before setting off on what will be a seven-hour hike back to Le Chazelet (covering a total of 23km over two days).The initial section, across the river and up to the Col des Trente Combes, is steep and rocky; I rely on my walking sticks like they're extra limbs. There are a couple of hours' respite as we weave through the grassy valley past shepherds' huts, pausing for sandwiches. Then it's another ascent, up to the Emparis plateau. The view from the top is fantastic: the Lac Noir (which is actually deep blue) backed by the Meije, with the ski resorts of Les Deux Alps to our right, and Alpe d'Huez behind. We drop down the other side and join an ancient mule track down to Le Chazelet.After beers on the terrace of Hotel Castillan \u2013 a renowned apr\u00e8s-ski hang-out in the centre of La Grave \u2013 it's an early dinner and then bed at the Auberge aux 3 Fr\u00eanes in nearby Villar d'Ar\u00e8ne.The following day we join a guided walk on the Girose glacier. Chrigl and I ride the Wonka-like cable car up to 3,173m. There are 11 in our group, and our guide, Thomas, helps us put on our crampons, while roping us all together.It's a slow, steady march up to the seracs at the top of the glacier. The crunchy ice is a stark contrast with the lush green meadows we were walking among yesterday. Thomas points to shallow ripples in the snow: crevasses up to 80m deep, covered with the remaining blanket of this year's late snowfall. The rope was a good idea. He explains to us how glaciers form and how to read them for \u2013 relatively \u2013 safe places to stand.It's warm, even at this altitude. Above us, alpine choughs ride the thermals. Some people say the birds, nicknamed becs jaunes for their distinctive yellow beaks, are the spirits of skiers and climbers lost. Whether or not that's true, as we pause briefly to take in the tumbling view of the glacier, rock and valley below, I reflect that even if we don't do like Katarina and move here, a small piece of me will forever be soaring and swooping over these magical peaks.\u2022 Accommodation was provided by la-grave.com. La Yourte Des Bergers (+33 6 8296 2635, layourtedesbergers.fr) has one-night stays from \u20ac38 adults, \u20ac30 kids, including dinner and breakfast. Auberge aux 3 Fr\u00eanes (+33 4 7679 9065, 3frenes.com) has doubles from \u20ac39pp B&B. Hotel Castillan (+33 4 7679 9004, castillan.pagesperso-orange.fr) has doubles from \u20ac42pppn. To hire a guide contact the Bureau des Guides (+33 4 7679 9021, guidelagrave.com). For information on walking routes visit cheminsdavant.com. The glacier workshop at the festival costs \u20ac30 adults, \u20ac30 kids, including lift ticket, glacier walk, equipment hire and lunch. Easyjet (easyjet.com) flies to Lyon (two hours' drive away) from six British airports from \u00a358 return", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Alps holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Autumn hiking in La Grave, France"},{"date": "2013-07-31T22:39:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "A fugitive Kazakh oligarch and dissident who was granted political asylum in the UK before fleeing to avoid a prison sentence has been arrested in southern France, according to his family.Mukhtar Ablyazov, who is also being pursued by his former bank in London's high court over allegations that he embezzled $5bn (\u00a33.3bn), was detained near Cannes by French special forces on Wednesday as Russia requested the oligarch's extradition, his son Madiyar told the Guardian.Ablyazov, who is a political opponent of Kazakhstan's president, Nursultan Nazarbayev, and is wanted in Kazakhstan on charges relating to the collapse of his former bank BTA, was granted asylum in the UK in 2011 as he fought one of the largest and most complex fraud cases ever heard in London.The proceedings took an unusual turn in February 2012 when the billionaire fled Britain on a coach departing from London's Victoria station for France, after being sentenced to 22 months in prison for contempt of court for lying about his assets. A judge in the case had also previously told Ablyazov that he could not be trusted not to dissipate his assets, which the court had frozen.BTA bank was declared insolvent in 2009 and was nationalised after defaulting on $12bn of debt owed to creditors including Royal Bank of Scotland and Barclays. In May, receivers in London began the process of selling two of Ablyazov's luxury properties, a \u00a317m mansion in Hampstead, north London and a 100-acre, \u00a318m estate near Windsor called Oakland Park.Before fleeing, Ablyazov had lived in Britain since BTA's nationalisation \u2013 a move which he insisted was forced upon him because he was a leading figure in the Kazakhstan opposition. He also said he was previously imprisoned for political reasons and claims the embezzlement charges are politically motivated.Ablyazov's arrest comes after the former banker's wife Alma and daughter Alua were detained by Italian authorities last month and then deported back to Kazakhstan, where they are now thought to be staying with relatives.The Russian Embassy did not immediately return the Guardian's phone calls.", "tags": ["Kazakhstan", "France", "World news"], "title": "Fugitive oligarch reported captured in southern France"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Rain fell furiously from gun-metal clouds that passed like heavenly rafts. In Montpellier's medieval quarter, water overwhelmed the drains. It hadn't stopped raining for days, rendering the streets bare on a typically bustling Saturday.The ground floor of a car park constructed in 1962 sat like a carbuncle on the pleasing architecture of the Saunerie-Saint-Denis quarter. Sodden and breathless, my husband and I gratefully entered.Enveloped by the scents, sights and sounds of the Halles Laissac market, we heard the florist greet us over her buckets of vivid blooms with, \"Quelle inondation! What a flood! Four times the usual rainfall for November.\"Nearby, an elderly lady tapped her elegant hands on the fromagerie window. \"No, no, not the P\u00e9lardon. It's too mild. Ah, there.\" She pointed to a charcoal-rubbed goat's cheese. \"The Valen\u00e7ay is better, don't you think?\"Carefully displayed fruits and vegetables graced Le Jardin de Laissac's stand; dried fruits and antipasto formed a mosaic at another.We seated ourselves at Chez Corinne, the central buvette, or bar-caf\u00e9. Its wooden bar was lined with age-worn men in heavy caps. My neighbour recommended, \"The ros\u00e9, naturally.\" We were near Provence.The barman said: \"I've seen three generations. The same customers shop each week. Local markets are lifebloods, not only for the customers but my friends here.\" Of the men he said, \"They're here setting up the stalls at six o'clock when I arrive. They come to me for their espressos and fresh orange juice. And now, their lunch.\"Indeed, the men were pulling apart crusty baguettes and spreading softened Mont d'Or cheese from their spruce containers. \"Why not make your lunch here too?\" the barman suggested, and we did.\"This isn't a beautiful place, but it's a friendly one,\" the barman said. \"It's our home. There are 24 stalls and we all know each other.\" We couldn't have imagined that the municipal council would decide, irrevocably, to close the market in early 2015.Rain continued to pound as the wind roared. \"Have another ros\u00e9,\" my neighbour grinned. \"We're not going anywhere for a while.\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should give our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["France", "Food & drink"], "title": "Letter from France: flavour flood"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Rain fell furiously from gun-metal clouds that passed like heavenly rafts. In Montpellier's medieval quarter, water overwhelmed the drains. It hadn't stopped raining for days, rendering the streets bare on a typically bustling Saturday.The ground floor of a car park constructed in 1962 sat like a carbuncle on the pleasing architecture of the Saunerie-Saint-Denis quarter. Sodden and breathless, my husband and I gratefully entered.Enveloped by the scents, sights and sounds of the Halles Laissac market, we heard the florist greet us over her buckets of vivid blooms with, \"Quelle inondation! What a flood! Four times the usual rainfall for November.\"Nearby, an elderly lady tapped her elegant hands on the fromagerie window. \"No, no, not the P\u00e9lardon. It's too mild. Ah, there.\" She pointed to a charcoal-rubbed goat's cheese. \"The Valen\u00e7ay is better, don't you think?\"Carefully displayed fruits and vegetables graced Le Jardin de Laissac's stand; dried fruits and antipasto formed a mosaic at another.We seated ourselves at Chez Corinne, the central buvette, or bar-caf\u00e9. Its wooden bar was lined with age-worn men in heavy caps. My neighbour recommended, \"The ros\u00e9, naturally.\" We were near Provence.The barman said: \"I've seen three generations. The same customers shop each week. Local markets are lifebloods, not only for the customers but my friends here.\" Of the men he said, \"They're here setting up the stalls at six o'clock when I arrive. They come to me for their espressos and fresh orange juice. And now, their lunch.\"Indeed, the men were pulling apart crusty baguettes and spreading softened Mont d'Or cheese from their spruce containers. \"Why not make your lunch here too?\" the barman suggested, and we did.\"This isn't a beautiful place, but it's a friendly one,\" the barman said. \"It's our home. There are 24 stalls and we all know each other.\" We couldn't have imagined that the municipal council would decide, irrevocably, to close the market in early 2015.Rain continued to pound as the wind roared. \"Have another ros\u00e9,\" my neighbour grinned. \"We're not going anywhere for a while.\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should give our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["France", "Food & drink"], "title": "Letter from France: flavour flood"},{"date": "2013-11-18T18:06:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "She holds Brel, Brassens and Ferr\u00e9 in high esteem, he\u2019s into modern hip-hop. She looks like Florence Welch, he\u2019s dressed as a gentleman gunfighter. Together they are Moonga\u00ef.\u00a0Hailing from St. Nazaire, Brittany, their dreampop is reminiscent of Emilie Simon, Mylene Farmer, Florene & the Machine and Gainsbourg. Zombie is the first single, with a heavy heavy bassline and a surprising break. This could be big.\u2022 More from Filles Sourires\u2022 Umez - Rainbow: New Music From Japan\u2022 Deeb: New music from Egypt", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Indie"], "title": "Moonga\u00ef - Zombie: New music from France"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Rain fell furiously from gun-metal clouds that passed like heavenly rafts. In Montpellier's medieval quarter, water overwhelmed the drains. It hadn't stopped raining for days, rendering the streets bare on a typically bustling Saturday.The ground floor of a car park constructed in 1962 sat like a carbuncle on the pleasing architecture of the Saunerie-Saint-Denis quarter. Sodden and breathless, my husband and I gratefully entered.Enveloped by the scents, sights and sounds of the Halles Laissac market, we heard the florist greet us over her buckets of vivid blooms with, \"Quelle inondation! What a flood! Four times the usual rainfall for November.\"Nearby, an elderly lady tapped her elegant hands on the fromagerie window. \"No, no, not the P\u00e9lardon. It's too mild. Ah, there.\" She pointed to a charcoal-rubbed goat's cheese. \"The Valen\u00e7ay is better, don't you think?\"Carefully displayed fruits and vegetables graced Le Jardin de Laissac's stand; dried fruits and antipasto formed a mosaic at another.We seated ourselves at Chez Corinne, the central buvette, or bar-caf\u00e9. Its wooden bar was lined with age-worn men in heavy caps. My neighbour recommended, \"The ros\u00e9, naturally.\" We were near Provence.The barman said: \"I've seen three generations. The same customers shop each week. Local markets are lifebloods, not only for the customers but my friends here.\" Of the men he said, \"They're here setting up the stalls at six o'clock when I arrive. They come to me for their espressos and fresh orange juice. And now, their lunch.\"Indeed, the men were pulling apart crusty baguettes and spreading softened Mont d'Or cheese from their spruce containers. \"Why not make your lunch here too?\" the barman suggested, and we did.\"This isn't a beautiful place, but it's a friendly one,\" the barman said. \"It's our home. There are 24 stalls and we all know each other.\" We couldn't have imagined that the municipal council would decide, irrevocably, to close the market in early 2015.Rain continued to pound as the wind roared. \"Have another ros\u00e9,\" my neighbour grinned. \"We're not going anywhere for a while.\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should give our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["France", "Food & drink"], "title": "Letter from France: flavour flood"},{"date": "2013-11-18T18:06:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "She holds Brel, Brassens and Ferr\u00e9 in high esteem, he\u2019s into modern hip-hop. She looks like Florence Welch, he\u2019s dressed as a gentleman gunfighter. Together they are Moonga\u00ef.\u00a0Hailing from St. Nazaire, Brittany, their dreampop is reminiscent of Emilie Simon, Mylene Farmer, Florene & the Machine and Gainsbourg. Zombie is the first single, with a heavy heavy bassline and a surprising break. This could be big.\u2022 More from Filles Sourires\u2022 Umez - Rainbow: New Music From Japan\u2022 Deeb: New music from Egypt", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Indie"], "title": "Moonga\u00ef - Zombie: New music from France"},{"date": "2013-10-15T13:01:41Z", "country": "france", "content": "Supporting bookshops is one of the few issues on which both sides of the French parliament more or less agree. On 3 October they passed a bill to update a 1981 law that set a fixed-price system for books.The original aim of the revision was to stop sellers including postage in the price of books, but in its final draft the amendment stipulates that retailers cannot combine the currently allowed 5% discount on new books with free post and packaging. At present only two online companies \u2013 Amazon and Fnac \u2013 apply this two-tier reduction.There was heated debate between the government and the conservative MP Christian Kert who tabled the bill. \"The government has been in a pickle all along, because they support the bill,\" centre-right Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) MPs joked. But the Socialists (PS) were nevertheless determined to vote against the opposition bill as it stood. When agreement was finally reached on the amendment, it was passed almost unanimously, which is unusual for an opposition bill.The aim of the bill, as Kert explains, \"is to ensure that the price of a book sold online is higher than one sold by an independent bookshop\". The government puts it slightly differently, stating that the purpose of the amendment is to \"restrict predatory behaviour\". Online booksellers now represent the third-largest trading network in France, behind independent bookshops and big cultural chains (such as Fnac), both of which have 23% market share. In 2012 the internet accounted for 17% of sales of \"general literature\", with Amazon taking 70% of this market, well ahead of Fnac and other online vendors.\"E-trade now holds a 20% share of the market for printed books and is putting increasing pressure on bookshops,\" says Vincent Chabault, a researcher at Paris Descartes University.French bookshops have been slow to respond to the internet. Despite being represented by a single body, the French Booksellers Association (SLF), they have focused their efforts on maintaining their independence, and have failed to agree on a common website for online sales. The only venture of this sort, 1001libraires.com, was a commercial disaster that cost the trade almost \u20ac2m ($2.6m). These days the cost of launching a site is much too steep for an independent bookseller. So some large shops \u2013 such as Mollat in Bordeaux or Sauramps in Montpellier \u2013 and chains such as Gibert, based in Paris, or Decitre in Lyon now have their own websites. Bookshops in and around eastern Paris have formed the Librest collective (librest.com), and Charles Kermarec, the former head of Dialogues, a bookstore in Brest, Brittany, has launched a site (leslibraires.fr) supported by shops all over the country. \"All bookshops are losing money at present, even if they have an internet outlet, but at the same time they cannot afford not to be represented online,\" says Guillaume Husson, the head of SLF.The new amendment should reduce Amazon's competitive advantage and ease the financial pressure on Fnac. Free postage, which is a key feature of Amazon's strategy, costs the company an estimated $5.1bn worldwide, SLF alleges, condemning the practice as a form of dumping.In response, Amazon France said that it makes \"more than 70% of its sales with remainders\" and that it is more \"complementary\" rather than \"in competition\" with French booksellers, who sell mainly new books. It also suggested that, by raising the price of books, the amendment would be bad news for consumers.A new head is to be appointed for France's National Book Centre. On taking office his or her top priority will be to convene a board meeting and release funds allocated by the government to help retail booksellers. The \u20ac11m ($14.5m) package, announced in March, will double support (rising to \u20ac2m) for online trading. The Institute for Funding Films and Cultural Industries will receive \u20ac5m to help bookshops manage cashflow, with a further \u20ac4m given to the Association for the Development of Creative Booksellers to assist the transfer of bookselling businesses.This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["France", "World news", "E-commerce", "Amazon.com", "Business", "Booksellers", "Books"], "title": "France shows its support for independent booksellers"},{"date": "2013-12-03T13:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Rain fell furiously from gun-metal clouds that passed like heavenly rafts. In Montpellier's medieval quarter, water overwhelmed the drains. It hadn't stopped raining for days, rendering the streets bare on a typically bustling Saturday.The ground floor of a car park constructed in 1962 sat like a carbuncle on the pleasing architecture of the Saunerie-Saint-Denis quarter. Sodden and breathless, my husband and I gratefully entered.Enveloped by the scents, sights and sounds of the Halles Laissac market, we heard the florist greet us over her buckets of vivid blooms with, \"Quelle inondation! What a flood! Four times the usual rainfall for November.\"Nearby, an elderly lady tapped her elegant hands on the fromagerie window. \"No, no, not the P\u00e9lardon. It's too mild. Ah, there.\" She pointed to a charcoal-rubbed goat's cheese. \"The Valen\u00e7ay is better, don't you think?\"Carefully displayed fruits and vegetables graced Le Jardin de Laissac's stand; dried fruits and antipasto formed a mosaic at another.We seated ourselves at Chez Corinne, the central buvette, or bar-caf\u00e9. Its wooden bar was lined with age-worn men in heavy caps. My neighbour recommended, \"The ros\u00e9, naturally.\" We were near Provence.The barman said: \"I've seen three generations. The same customers shop each week. Local markets are lifebloods, not only for the customers but my friends here.\" Of the men he said, \"They're here setting up the stalls at six o'clock when I arrive. They come to me for their espressos and fresh orange juice. And now, their lunch.\"Indeed, the men were pulling apart crusty baguettes and spreading softened Mont d'Or cheese from their spruce containers. \"Why not make your lunch here too?\" the barman suggested, and we did.\"This isn't a beautiful place, but it's a friendly one,\" the barman said. \"It's our home. There are 24 stalls and we all know each other.\" We couldn't have imagined that the municipal council would decide, irrevocably, to close the market in early 2015.Rain continued to pound as the wind roared. \"Have another ros\u00e9,\" my neighbour grinned. \"We're not going anywhere for a while.\"Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should give our readers a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["France", "Food & drink"], "title": "Letter from France: flavour flood"},{"date": "2013-11-18T18:06:08Z", "country": "france", "content": "She holds Brel, Brassens and Ferr\u00e9 in high esteem, he\u2019s into modern hip-hop. She looks like Florence Welch, he\u2019s dressed as a gentleman gunfighter. Together they are Moonga\u00ef.\u00a0Hailing from St. Nazaire, Brittany, their dreampop is reminiscent of Emilie Simon, Mylene Farmer, Florene & the Machine and Gainsbourg. Zombie is the first single, with a heavy heavy bassline and a surprising break. This could be big.\u2022 More from Filles Sourires\u2022 Umez - Rainbow: New Music From Japan\u2022 Deeb: New music from Egypt", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Indie"], "title": "Moonga\u00ef - Zombie: New music from France"},{"date": "2013-10-15T13:01:41Z", "country": "france", "content": "Supporting bookshops is one of the few issues on which both sides of the French parliament more or less agree. On 3 October they passed a bill to update a 1981 law that set a fixed-price system for books.The original aim of the revision was to stop sellers including postage in the price of books, but in its final draft the amendment stipulates that retailers cannot combine the currently allowed 5% discount on new books with free post and packaging. At present only two online companies \u2013 Amazon and Fnac \u2013 apply this two-tier reduction.There was heated debate between the government and the conservative MP Christian Kert who tabled the bill. \"The government has been in a pickle all along, because they support the bill,\" centre-right Union for a Popular Movement (UMP) MPs joked. But the Socialists (PS) were nevertheless determined to vote against the opposition bill as it stood. When agreement was finally reached on the amendment, it was passed almost unanimously, which is unusual for an opposition bill.The aim of the bill, as Kert explains, \"is to ensure that the price of a book sold online is higher than one sold by an independent bookshop\". The government puts it slightly differently, stating that the purpose of the amendment is to \"restrict predatory behaviour\". Online booksellers now represent the third-largest trading network in France, behind independent bookshops and big cultural chains (such as Fnac), both of which have 23% market share. In 2012 the internet accounted for 17% of sales of \"general literature\", with Amazon taking 70% of this market, well ahead of Fnac and other online vendors.\"E-trade now holds a 20% share of the market for printed books and is putting increasing pressure on bookshops,\" says Vincent Chabault, a researcher at Paris Descartes University.French bookshops have been slow to respond to the internet. Despite being represented by a single body, the French Booksellers Association (SLF), they have focused their efforts on maintaining their independence, and have failed to agree on a common website for online sales. The only venture of this sort, 1001libraires.com, was a commercial disaster that cost the trade almost \u20ac2m ($2.6m). These days the cost of launching a site is much too steep for an independent bookseller. So some large shops \u2013 such as Mollat in Bordeaux or Sauramps in Montpellier \u2013 and chains such as Gibert, based in Paris, or Decitre in Lyon now have their own websites. Bookshops in and around eastern Paris have formed the Librest collective (librest.com), and Charles Kermarec, the former head of Dialogues, a bookstore in Brest, Brittany, has launched a site (leslibraires.fr) supported by shops all over the country. \"All bookshops are losing money at present, even if they have an internet outlet, but at the same time they cannot afford not to be represented online,\" says Guillaume Husson, the head of SLF.The new amendment should reduce Amazon's competitive advantage and ease the financial pressure on Fnac. Free postage, which is a key feature of Amazon's strategy, costs the company an estimated $5.1bn worldwide, SLF alleges, condemning the practice as a form of dumping.In response, Amazon France said that it makes \"more than 70% of its sales with remainders\" and that it is more \"complementary\" rather than \"in competition\" with French booksellers, who sell mainly new books. It also suggested that, by raising the price of books, the amendment would be bad news for consumers.A new head is to be appointed for France's National Book Centre. On taking office his or her top priority will be to convene a board meeting and release funds allocated by the government to help retail booksellers. The \u20ac11m ($14.5m) package, announced in March, will double support (rising to \u20ac2m) for online trading. The Institute for Funding Films and Cultural Industries will receive \u20ac5m to help bookshops manage cashflow, with a further \u20ac4m given to the Association for the Development of Creative Booksellers to assist the transfer of bookselling businesses.This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["France", "World news", "E-commerce", "Amazon.com", "Business", "Booksellers", "Books"], "title": "France shows its support for independent booksellers"},{"date": "2013-12-27T23:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": " A series of avalanches in the Alps on Friday left five people dead, including a young Irishman, and several other skiers seriously injured, according to mountain rescue teams.Off-piste skiers have been warned there may be further avalanches this weekend.Seven skiers were swept away when avalanches hit the popular resorts of Val-Thorens, Courchevel, La Clusaz and Serre-Chevalier.One man, reportedly a French mountain worker, aged 50, died in Courchevel. He was trying to reach a mountain hostel with his son, when the pair were \"surprised by an avalanche\", rescue services said. The son was saved, but his father\u00a0died.In Serre-Chevalier, a skier, described as between 15 and 20 years of age, died in hospital after being buried in snow after an avalanche reportedly under the ski lifts.Two people were reported to be in a serious condition in La Clusaz after their group of six skiers and snowboarders, descending outside the marked runs despite warnings and advice for skiers to remain on the pistes, triggered an avalanche at an altitude of 2,200 metres. The snowfall hit the lower reaches of a black slope, where mountain rescue teams said they had no reports of victims but were searching the snowfall. French authorities also announced the death of an 18-year-old after an avalanche in La Plagne.At Val-Thorens, seven off-piste skiers set off an avalanche and had to be rescued by the emergency services.In Switzerland, where heavy snow has fallen for the past two days, two skiers were declared dead in separate incidents, one in St Moritz. Rescuers said they were unable to reach the second victim, said to be a 27-year-old Irishman, living in Zurich, swept away by an avalanche in the Uri region south of Realp, because of weather conditions.Ski authorities throughout the Alps said it was imperative that skiers kept to the marked slopes.Friday's deaths were the latest in a grim series of fatal avalanches to have hit the Alps in the past few days. On Thursday, a French skier, aged 24, from Annecy, died in the Italian Alps above Turin. On Wednesday, a 27-year-old Spanish skier was killed by an avalanche in Andorra. None of the victims have been named.", "tags": ["Avalanches", "France", "Switzerland", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alps avalanches causes deaths in France and Switzerland"},{"date": "2014-02-06T11:58:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "France became the first European country to destroy its stocks of illegal ivory on Thursday in a dramatic warning to those involved in the lucrative wildlife trade that is endangering elephants and other species.The three tonnes of ivory, mostly elephant tusks packed into white builders' bags, were unloaded from a lorry at the Champs de Mars in the shadow of the Eiffel Tower and laid out on a blue tarpaulin.In bitterly cold drizzling rain, the tusks were fed one by one on to a conveyer belt and into a pulveriser that spewed out a fine, dirty-white dust.It was intended as a powerful message to the poachers and traffickers: there is no future in ivory.The destruction of France's impounded ivory comes as London prepares to host a global summit to tackle the $19bn a year illegal wildlife trade on February 12 and 13, led by Prince Charles and David Cameron, to which 50 heads of state have been invited.Most of the tusks, either whole or carved into batons of ivory, weighing 2,304kg, had been seized by customs officers at Roissy and Orly airports either in freight cargo or from passengers.A further 15,357 pieces of ivory, including statues and jewellery, weighing 800kg, were also fed into the grinder. Officials said the powder would be encased in a composite material to make it impossible to retrieve, and used in construction.Philippe Martin the minister for ecology, durable development and energy, added that all ivory seized in France in future would be destroyed, apart from samples kept for scientific or educational purposes and those items that might help trace traffickers.\"The destruction of illegal ivory has become indispensable in the fight against trafficking of threatened species. It's a firm message that we are sending to the dealers who are threatening the survival of the elephant in Africa,\" Martin said.\"Our weapons against the illegal trade in wild species has been considerably reinforced and will continue to be in 2014.\"He said France had increased fines against those dealing in illegal ivory by up to 10 times.\"The message to the poachers and traffickers is clear: the trafficking of ivory has no future; with this action we are telling them ivory has no value.\"Hubert G\u00e9ant, the director of police at the national office of hunting and wild fauna, said: \"The contraband from wild animals has become the most lucrative criminal activity after drugs, fake money and the trafficking of human beings.\"All species included it brings in more than $14bn. Pure ivory can bring in $2,000 a kilo in the Asian black market, it's main destination. We estimate that the illegal trade in wild specials involves 500-600 million tropical fish, 15 million fur animals, five million birds, two million reptiles and 30,000 primates.\"In November last year the United States destroyed six tons of illegal ivory and in December China ground up the same amount.", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Animals", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France destroys illegal ivory stocks"},{"date": "2014-02-06T11:58:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "France became the first European country to destroy its stocks of illegal ivory on Thursday in a dramatic warning to those involved in the lucrative wildlife trade that is endangering elephants and other species.The three tonnes of ivory, mostly elephant tusks packed into white builders' bags, were unloaded from a lorry at the Champs de Mars in the shadow of the Eiffel Tower and laid out on a blue tarpaulin.In bitterly cold drizzling rain, the tusks were fed one by one on to a conveyer belt and into a pulveriser that spewed out a fine, dirty-white dust.It was intended as a powerful message to the poachers and traffickers: there is no future in ivory.The destruction of France's impounded ivory comes as London prepares to host a global summit to tackle the $19bn a year illegal wildlife trade on February 12 and 13, led by Prince Charles and David Cameron, to which 50 heads of state have been invited.Most of the tusks, either whole or carved into batons of ivory, weighing 2,304kg, had been seized by customs officers at Roissy and Orly airports either in freight cargo or from passengers.A further 15,357 pieces of ivory, including statues and jewellery, weighing 800kg, were also fed into the grinder. Officials said the powder would be encased in a composite material to make it impossible to retrieve, and used in construction.Philippe Martin the minister for ecology, durable development and energy, added that all ivory seized in France in future would be destroyed, apart from samples kept for scientific or educational purposes and those items that might help trace traffickers.\"The destruction of illegal ivory has become indispensable in the fight against trafficking of threatened species. It's a firm message that we are sending to the dealers who are threatening the survival of the elephant in Africa,\" Martin said.\"Our weapons against the illegal trade in wild species has been considerably reinforced and will continue to be in 2014.\"He said France had increased fines against those dealing in illegal ivory by up to 10 times.\"The message to the poachers and traffickers is clear: the trafficking of ivory has no future; with this action we are telling them ivory has no value.\"Hubert G\u00e9ant, the director of police at the national office of hunting and wild fauna, said: \"The contraband from wild animals has become the most lucrative criminal activity after drugs, fake money and the trafficking of human beings.\"All species included it brings in more than $14bn. Pure ivory can bring in $2,000 a kilo in the Asian black market, it's main destination. We estimate that the illegal trade in wild specials involves 500-600 million tropical fish, 15 million fur animals, five million birds, two million reptiles and 30,000 primates.\"In November last year the United States destroyed six tons of illegal ivory and in December China ground up the same amount.", "tags": ["Illegal wildlife trade", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Animals", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France destroys illegal ivory stocks"},{"date": "2014-03-21T21:00:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "\"Why is this our house?\" asked my daughter, on catching sight of our campervan, with the honest bemusement you only get from a four-year-old. She had a point. As we approached the 1970s design classic in which our family of four were to drive/eat/sleep for the next week, even I was momentarily baffled that this was how we'd chosen to spend our holiday: cramped, jostling for space, banging heads, packing up and dismantling our beds every time we wanted to go anywhere.What is it about VW campervans that make people love them so? Is it the hippy association? Or the Scooby Doo mystery machine? Perhaps they symbolise the freedom of living on the road \u2013 cuter than a Winnebago, less naff than a caravan. All I know is that I've never had so many waves and nods of respect and admiration \u2013 it's quite something when the very vehicle you're holidaying in makes people smile.It helped that our van was the epitome of retro-chic: bright orange with white and yellow swirls and gleaming chrome. Forty years old and a proper style icon, it was one of a fleet run by WeDubYou, a newish company started by British couple Yvette and Tony Martin, who have kitted them out with iPads and iPods (all instructions and navigation programmed in) and generally made staying in them much easier than it was back in the 1970s.WeDubYou will leave you to your own devices or create an itinerary if you want guidance. We'd opted for the EasyStart, where they book you in for the first night and sort out an evening meal while you get the hang of things. Which meant that Tony, a music industry exile from Brighton (he used to make dance records for indy lable Creation), picked us up from Bergerac airport and drove us to Camping les Ormes 40 minutes away near Viller\u00e9al. There, on a treasure of a campsite \u2013 small, secluded, completely uncorporate \u2013 the van had been made ready for the night \u2013 awning up, beds made, hamper stocked.For those who aren't familiar with campervans, the back seats fold down to make a double bed, and the roof pops up to make another sleeping space above \u2013 where the kids slept. They thought it was great fun (although it wouldn't suit claustrophobics). And it's not just the beds that are bijou \u2013 it's the cupboards, the sink and the hob. I'm amazed at what can be crammed in to this small vehicle \u2013 they've even found room for a boules set and a pair of table-tennis bats.True, it took a bit of getting used to the necessary contortions of the sleeping arrangements, and hoiking the kids into their \"bedroom\". But we soon began to fall in line with the everything-in-its-placeness of the whole deal. We would never have passed any proper-camper test: during the day, all our stuff spilled out of the van and was scattered around as if a small explosion had occurred.We also stayed put more than some people might, because packing everything up just to nip into the village seemed like a bit of a faff. But then Camping Les Ormes was such a great base, with masses of space for children to roam safely, plus a superb restaurant, a good pool and even a lake and farm animals.When it comes to venturing out, WeDubYou also hires out electric bikes (with trailers and child seats), so we rode to the night market in Viller\u00e9al: trestle tables lined up in the middle of the medieval square at which everyone sat to eat food bought at the surrounding stalls. Not far away are other picturesque towns of the Lot et Garonne d\u00e9partement such as Issigeac and Monpazier \u2013 which are a touch more touristy, with chi-chi cafes and galleries down every winding alleyway.Tony had suggested that we head next towards Arcachon, on the coast. Driving made us a little apprehensive about breakdowns and absent airbags, but Tony reminded us that our old-timer had a new engine, and that there was no need to go quickly.Still, it could never be said that our van provided an instantly smooth ride. A constant confusion between reverse and second gear (a common mistake, assured Tony) made for an interesting driving experience. As for the cornerning, we seemed to be about as nimble as a Routemaster bus. But eventually my husband's grip relaxed on the big steering wheel and, as we clocked up the miles, we sang along to music on the iPod provided.Camping Panorama near Arcachon felt very different. Part of the Yelloh group, which runs more than 60 \"villages\", mostly in France, it was busy but well-run, with three pools, a water slide and a kids' club. The big draw, however, is its location, right by the extraordinary Dune de Pyla, the biggest sand dune in Europe. Running down the steep slope of sand to the sea is joyous: trekking up again has more of a Lawrence of Arabia epic feel. Back at our van we were happy watching the sharp bright shapes of hang-gliders swooping over the pine trees. We never even made it to the much-feted Cap Ferret, just around the bay.And any time we were sitting outside the van, people would stop to look, reminisce about childhood holidays and take photos and WeDubYou's details). My husband took to sitting in the driver's seat with his elbow out, even while we were parked, enjoying the unaccustomed sensation of being admired.\u2022 The trip was provided by WeDubYou (020-7193 9058, wedubyou.com) which hires vans from \u00a3595 a week, picking up and dropping off at Bergerac airport. Camping les Ormes (campinglesormes.com) has pitches for four people from \u20ac37 a night. Camping Panorama (camping-panorama.com) has pitches for four from \u20ac32 a night. Ryanair and Flybe fly to Bergerac from several UK airports", "tags": ["France holidays", "Camping holidays", "Family holidays", "Road trips", "Beach holidays", "Summer holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Round France in a psychedelic campervan"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-08-28T12:16:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "One thing you quickly learn when you go bouldering \u2013 a sort of low-level rock climbing done without ropes \u2013 is that you can find yourself in a pretty sticky situation even when you\u2019re just a few feet off the ground.This thought flashes through my head as I swing my left heel up and on to the top of the 2.5-metre-high hunk of sandstone I\u2019m attempting to climb, praying that my right toe stays glued to the centimetre-wide ledge of rock the rest of my body is balancing on.This time I\u2019m successful. I haul myself over and stand up proudly, only to find a pair of French kids already sitting there enjoying the view.It\u2019s my first visit to Fontainebleau, a region of rocky gorges 60km south-east of Paris that\u2019s widely considered the best destination for bouldering in the world. Climbers of all ages and abilities travel from around the world to visit this tranquil pine forest populated with impressively active French outdoorsy types and thousands of spectacular boulders, with no fewer than 20,000 routes to climb.From the end of the 19th century Fontainebleau \u2013 Font to Brits, Bleau to locals \u2013 was a training site for Alpine climbers. Now, bouldering as a standalone sport is growing in popularity, appealing to those put off by the price of mountaineering equipment \u2013 or perhaps just lacking a head for heights. And Font has become a must-visit destination for those who enjoy the climbing challenge but may have no interest whatsoever in tackling an actual mountain. The minimal kit requirements \u2013 tight-fitting rubber-soled climbing shoes, chalk to keep your hands dry and a crash pad (a kind of foam mattress) for safety \u2013 make it a relatively accessible pastime.Although organised tours are available (Wales-based Rock and Sun offers one-week trips from just \u00a3550) I make the relatively straightforward journey across the Channel with three friends \u2013 all of us first timers to Font \u2013 by car, booking a cheap g\u00eete through Airbnb.The first \u201cchaos\u201d of boulders we visit is called Bas Cuvier (there are 15 or so main clusters within the forest). With crash pads strapped to our backs, we look like turtles with foam shells as we march from the car park into the maze of rocks and ferns. Following an obsessively detailed guidebook (see ) and the heiroglyph-like dashes of coloured paint on the boulders, denoting the various grades and types of route, we eventually reach a rock worth climbing ... and spend the next 40 minutes trying to work out how to do it.Even with crash pads and the group taking it in turns to \u201cspot\u201d \u2013 standing behind the climber with hands out to make sure they don\u2019t hit their head if they fall \u2013 there is some danger; simple moves feel increasingly daring as you ascend. Fortunately the only disasters we experience are scratches, stubbed toes and bruised shins.For three days we roam around, spoilt for choice as to what to climb, using our guidebook to track down boulders with the best routes within our grade range, or simply those with unusual and appealing shapes.On the second day, in an attempt to find a particular spot at Apremont (technically only seven minutes walk from the car park) we end up on an accidental three-hour hike through the forest before we reach our destination, and the day after we find ourselves climbing in a dark, overgrown patch of scrub without another climber in sight.In between climbs we lounge on rocks like basking lizards, eating baguettes and camembert while observing some of the bizarre sights of the area: hulk-armed climbers frantically scrubbing for handholds with what look like toothbrushes, and tanned locals wiping their feet on doormats to get bits of grit off the soles, in order to get a better grip on the rock. We even spot one elderly climber enjoying a cigar atop a rock.\u201cDon\u2019t get too hung up about the grades,\u201d a Font regular advised me, and this proved to be the best attitude. The real satisfaction of bouldering comes from figuring out how to complete a route \u2013 a trial-and-error experience that\u2019s like doing a physical jigsaw puzzle \u2013 and proudly massaging your red, calloused and grazed hands as you hobble home for the evening, to sip on a well-earned beer.You can buy shoes and chalk at climbing centres or sports shops including Decathalon (there\u2019s one at the Villiers-en-Bi\u00e8re near Fontainebleau). Crash pads can be hired from climbing shops in Fontainebleau, from about \u20ac8 a day: try S\u2019cape (scape-shop.com) or Sport Outdoor (sportoutdoorfontainebleau.com), and do check availability in advance at weekends and holidays.Fontainebleau Fun Bloc (Jingo Wobbly Publishing, \u00a330) is a good all-round guide book, with 7,000 routes, 17 kids\u2019 circuits and all the maps you need to find each spot and navigate the boulders. It also has photographic maps of each boulder with routes marked, which makes climbing more straightforward \u2013 once you\u2019ve got your head round the symbols.Because the bouldering spots are spread around 900 sq km of forest, it\u2019s useful to have a car when visiting Fontainebleau. Eurotunnel fares from Folkestone to Calais start at \u00a355 for a car and passengers, returning within five days. Fontainebleau is about 3\u00bd hours\u2019 drive from Calais or one from Paris. The Boulder Bus from London to Fontainebleau costs \u00a3249pp for a weekend sleeper, including all on-board accommodation.For home comforts each evening, there are several self-catering gites in Fontainebleau forest. The Maisonbleau complex near Buthiers caters for climbers, with crash pads to hire and prices from \u20ac300 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping four. At the Haras de la Fontaine complex (france-gite-fontainebleau.fr) in the village of Poligny, south of Nemours, prices start at \u20ac208 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping three. Campsites such as Camping Les Pres camping-grez-fontainebleau.info) south of Fontainebleau and Les Courtilles du Lido (les-courtilles-du-lido.fr) on the forest\u2019s eastern edge have tent pitches from around \u20ac6 a night. Airbnb has a selection of budget accommodation in the town and forest, from about \u00a340 a night for four.\u201cTop-outs (the final move, when you climb on top of the boulder) can be scary and slopey, but good crash mat placement is key for confidence. On top of this, don\u2019t expect to climb at the same level as in Britain (the grading is tougher in France) and prepare to be spanked [really challenged] ... but this makes succeeding all the better.\u201d\u2022 Bethan Thomas from womenclimb.co.uk, who visited Font for the first time this spring\u201cA topographical guide can be helpful, but for your first visit to Font it is much better to be with a local guide who can show you the best circuits according to the weather and your level. As for safety, bouldering in Font is nothing like a climbing gym: the risk of falls should not be underestimated, and make sure you borrow a crash mat.\u201d\u2022 Jean-Pierre Roudneff, editor at bleau.info\u201cFont can be overwhelming because there are so many boulders to choose from. Don\u2019t run around trying to climb them all; just pick one and work at it. Although you will be tempted to keep climbing, have a rest day after a couple of days to let your hands heal, and make sure you use good hand cream at the end of each session. And don\u2019t be put off when locals make everything look so easy: they\u2019ve been climbing the boulders at Font for years.\u201d\u2022 Gabriella Stewart, 15, a Scottish climber who has been bouldering at Font for five years", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Paris holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top rocks: bouldering in Fontainebleau, France"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-08-28T12:16:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "One thing you quickly learn when you go bouldering \u2013 a sort of low-level rock climbing done without ropes \u2013 is that you can find yourself in a pretty sticky situation even when you\u2019re just a few feet off the ground.This thought flashes through my head as I swing my left heel up and on to the top of the 2.5-metre-high hunk of sandstone I\u2019m attempting to climb, praying that my right toe stays glued to the centimetre-wide ledge of rock the rest of my body is balancing on.This time I\u2019m successful. I haul myself over and stand up proudly, only to find a pair of French kids already sitting there enjoying the view.It\u2019s my first visit to Fontainebleau, a region of rocky gorges 60km south-east of Paris that\u2019s widely considered the best destination for bouldering in the world. Climbers of all ages and abilities travel from around the world to visit this tranquil pine forest populated with impressively active French outdoorsy types and thousands of spectacular boulders, with no fewer than 20,000 routes to climb.From the end of the 19th century Fontainebleau \u2013 Font to Brits, Bleau to locals \u2013 was a training site for Alpine climbers. Now, bouldering as a standalone sport is growing in popularity, appealing to those put off by the price of mountaineering equipment \u2013 or perhaps just lacking a head for heights. And Font has become a must-visit destination for those who enjoy the climbing challenge but may have no interest whatsoever in tackling an actual mountain. The minimal kit requirements \u2013 tight-fitting rubber-soled climbing shoes, chalk to keep your hands dry and a crash pad (a kind of foam mattress) for safety \u2013 make it a relatively accessible pastime.Although organised tours are available (Wales-based Rock and Sun offers one-week trips from just \u00a3550) I make the relatively straightforward journey across the Channel with three friends \u2013 all of us first timers to Font \u2013 by car, booking a cheap g\u00eete through Airbnb.The first \u201cchaos\u201d of boulders we visit is called Bas Cuvier (there are 15 or so main clusters within the forest). With crash pads strapped to our backs, we look like turtles with foam shells as we march from the car park into the maze of rocks and ferns. Following an obsessively detailed guidebook (see ) and the heiroglyph-like dashes of coloured paint on the boulders, denoting the various grades and types of route, we eventually reach a rock worth climbing ... and spend the next 40 minutes trying to work out how to do it.Even with crash pads and the group taking it in turns to \u201cspot\u201d \u2013 standing behind the climber with hands out to make sure they don\u2019t hit their head if they fall \u2013 there is some danger; simple moves feel increasingly daring as you ascend. Fortunately the only disasters we experience are scratches, stubbed toes and bruised shins.For three days we roam around, spoilt for choice as to what to climb, using our guidebook to track down boulders with the best routes within our grade range, or simply those with unusual and appealing shapes.On the second day, in an attempt to find a particular spot at Apremont (technically only seven minutes walk from the car park) we end up on an accidental three-hour hike through the forest before we reach our destination, and the day after we find ourselves climbing in a dark, overgrown patch of scrub without another climber in sight.In between climbs we lounge on rocks like basking lizards, eating baguettes and camembert while observing some of the bizarre sights of the area: hulk-armed climbers frantically scrubbing for handholds with what look like toothbrushes, and tanned locals wiping their feet on doormats to get bits of grit off the soles, in order to get a better grip on the rock. We even spot one elderly climber enjoying a cigar atop a rock.\u201cDon\u2019t get too hung up about the grades,\u201d a Font regular advised me, and this proved to be the best attitude. The real satisfaction of bouldering comes from figuring out how to complete a route \u2013 a trial-and-error experience that\u2019s like doing a physical jigsaw puzzle \u2013 and proudly massaging your red, calloused and grazed hands as you hobble home for the evening, to sip on a well-earned beer.You can buy shoes and chalk at climbing centres or sports shops including Decathalon (there\u2019s one at the Villiers-en-Bi\u00e8re near Fontainebleau). Crash pads can be hired from climbing shops in Fontainebleau, from about \u20ac8 a day: try S\u2019cape (scape-shop.com) or Sport Outdoor (sportoutdoorfontainebleau.com), and do check availability in advance at weekends and holidays.Fontainebleau Fun Bloc (Jingo Wobbly Publishing, \u00a330) is a good all-round guide book, with 7,000 routes, 17 kids\u2019 circuits and all the maps you need to find each spot and navigate the boulders. It also has photographic maps of each boulder with routes marked, which makes climbing more straightforward \u2013 once you\u2019ve got your head round the symbols.Because the bouldering spots are spread around 900 sq km of forest, it\u2019s useful to have a car when visiting Fontainebleau. Eurotunnel fares from Folkestone to Calais start at \u00a355 for a car and passengers, returning within five days. Fontainebleau is about 3\u00bd hours\u2019 drive from Calais or one from Paris. The Boulder Bus from London to Fontainebleau costs \u00a3249pp for a weekend sleeper, including all on-board accommodation.For home comforts each evening, there are several self-catering gites in Fontainebleau forest. The Maisonbleau complex near Buthiers caters for climbers, with crash pads to hire and prices from \u20ac300 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping four. At the Haras de la Fontaine complex (france-gite-fontainebleau.fr) in the village of Poligny, south of Nemours, prices start at \u20ac208 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping three. Campsites such as Camping Les Pres camping-grez-fontainebleau.info) south of Fontainebleau and Les Courtilles du Lido (les-courtilles-du-lido.fr) on the forest\u2019s eastern edge have tent pitches from around \u20ac6 a night. Airbnb has a selection of budget accommodation in the town and forest, from about \u00a340 a night for four.\u201cTop-outs (the final move, when you climb on top of the boulder) can be scary and slopey, but good crash mat placement is key for confidence. On top of this, don\u2019t expect to climb at the same level as in Britain (the grading is tougher in France) and prepare to be spanked [really challenged] ... but this makes succeeding all the better.\u201d\u2022 Bethan Thomas from womenclimb.co.uk, who visited Font for the first time this spring\u201cA topographical guide can be helpful, but for your first visit to Font it is much better to be with a local guide who can show you the best circuits according to the weather and your level. As for safety, bouldering in Font is nothing like a climbing gym: the risk of falls should not be underestimated, and make sure you borrow a crash mat.\u201d\u2022 Jean-Pierre Roudneff, editor at bleau.info\u201cFont can be overwhelming because there are so many boulders to choose from. Don\u2019t run around trying to climb them all; just pick one and work at it. Although you will be tempted to keep climbing, have a rest day after a couple of days to let your hands heal, and make sure you use good hand cream at the end of each session. And don\u2019t be put off when locals make everything look so easy: they\u2019ve been climbing the boulders at Font for years.\u201d\u2022 Gabriella Stewart, 15, a Scottish climber who has been bouldering at Font for five years", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Paris holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top rocks: bouldering in Fontainebleau, France"},{"date": "2014-07-26T15:44:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 20 results"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-08-28T12:16:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "One thing you quickly learn when you go bouldering \u2013 a sort of low-level rock climbing done without ropes \u2013 is that you can find yourself in a pretty sticky situation even when you\u2019re just a few feet off the ground.This thought flashes through my head as I swing my left heel up and on to the top of the 2.5-metre-high hunk of sandstone I\u2019m attempting to climb, praying that my right toe stays glued to the centimetre-wide ledge of rock the rest of my body is balancing on.This time I\u2019m successful. I haul myself over and stand up proudly, only to find a pair of French kids already sitting there enjoying the view.It\u2019s my first visit to Fontainebleau, a region of rocky gorges 60km south-east of Paris that\u2019s widely considered the best destination for bouldering in the world. Climbers of all ages and abilities travel from around the world to visit this tranquil pine forest populated with impressively active French outdoorsy types and thousands of spectacular boulders, with no fewer than 20,000 routes to climb.From the end of the 19th century Fontainebleau \u2013 Font to Brits, Bleau to locals \u2013 was a training site for Alpine climbers. Now, bouldering as a standalone sport is growing in popularity, appealing to those put off by the price of mountaineering equipment \u2013 or perhaps just lacking a head for heights. And Font has become a must-visit destination for those who enjoy the climbing challenge but may have no interest whatsoever in tackling an actual mountain. The minimal kit requirements \u2013 tight-fitting rubber-soled climbing shoes, chalk to keep your hands dry and a crash pad (a kind of foam mattress) for safety \u2013 make it a relatively accessible pastime.Although organised tours are available (Wales-based Rock and Sun offers one-week trips from just \u00a3550) I make the relatively straightforward journey across the Channel with three friends \u2013 all of us first timers to Font \u2013 by car, booking a cheap g\u00eete through Airbnb.The first \u201cchaos\u201d of boulders we visit is called Bas Cuvier (there are 15 or so main clusters within the forest). With crash pads strapped to our backs, we look like turtles with foam shells as we march from the car park into the maze of rocks and ferns. Following an obsessively detailed guidebook (see ) and the heiroglyph-like dashes of coloured paint on the boulders, denoting the various grades and types of route, we eventually reach a rock worth climbing ... and spend the next 40 minutes trying to work out how to do it.Even with crash pads and the group taking it in turns to \u201cspot\u201d \u2013 standing behind the climber with hands out to make sure they don\u2019t hit their head if they fall \u2013 there is some danger; simple moves feel increasingly daring as you ascend. Fortunately the only disasters we experience are scratches, stubbed toes and bruised shins.For three days we roam around, spoilt for choice as to what to climb, using our guidebook to track down boulders with the best routes within our grade range, or simply those with unusual and appealing shapes.On the second day, in an attempt to find a particular spot at Apremont (technically only seven minutes walk from the car park) we end up on an accidental three-hour hike through the forest before we reach our destination, and the day after we find ourselves climbing in a dark, overgrown patch of scrub without another climber in sight.In between climbs we lounge on rocks like basking lizards, eating baguettes and camembert while observing some of the bizarre sights of the area: hulk-armed climbers frantically scrubbing for handholds with what look like toothbrushes, and tanned locals wiping their feet on doormats to get bits of grit off the soles, in order to get a better grip on the rock. We even spot one elderly climber enjoying a cigar atop a rock.\u201cDon\u2019t get too hung up about the grades,\u201d a Font regular advised me, and this proved to be the best attitude. The real satisfaction of bouldering comes from figuring out how to complete a route \u2013 a trial-and-error experience that\u2019s like doing a physical jigsaw puzzle \u2013 and proudly massaging your red, calloused and grazed hands as you hobble home for the evening, to sip on a well-earned beer.You can buy shoes and chalk at climbing centres or sports shops including Decathalon (there\u2019s one at the Villiers-en-Bi\u00e8re near Fontainebleau). Crash pads can be hired from climbing shops in Fontainebleau, from about \u20ac8 a day: try S\u2019cape (scape-shop.com) or Sport Outdoor (sportoutdoorfontainebleau.com), and do check availability in advance at weekends and holidays.Fontainebleau Fun Bloc (Jingo Wobbly Publishing, \u00a330) is a good all-round guide book, with 7,000 routes, 17 kids\u2019 circuits and all the maps you need to find each spot and navigate the boulders. It also has photographic maps of each boulder with routes marked, which makes climbing more straightforward \u2013 once you\u2019ve got your head round the symbols.Because the bouldering spots are spread around 900 sq km of forest, it\u2019s useful to have a car when visiting Fontainebleau. Eurotunnel fares from Folkestone to Calais start at \u00a355 for a car and passengers, returning within five days. Fontainebleau is about 3\u00bd hours\u2019 drive from Calais or one from Paris. The Boulder Bus from London to Fontainebleau costs \u00a3249pp for a weekend sleeper, including all on-board accommodation.For home comforts each evening, there are several self-catering gites in Fontainebleau forest. The Maisonbleau complex near Buthiers caters for climbers, with crash pads to hire and prices from \u20ac300 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping four. At the Haras de la Fontaine complex (france-gite-fontainebleau.fr) in the village of Poligny, south of Nemours, prices start at \u20ac208 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping three. Campsites such as Camping Les Pres camping-grez-fontainebleau.info) south of Fontainebleau and Les Courtilles du Lido (les-courtilles-du-lido.fr) on the forest\u2019s eastern edge have tent pitches from around \u20ac6 a night. Airbnb has a selection of budget accommodation in the town and forest, from about \u00a340 a night for four.\u201cTop-outs (the final move, when you climb on top of the boulder) can be scary and slopey, but good crash mat placement is key for confidence. On top of this, don\u2019t expect to climb at the same level as in Britain (the grading is tougher in France) and prepare to be spanked [really challenged] ... but this makes succeeding all the better.\u201d\u2022 Bethan Thomas from womenclimb.co.uk, who visited Font for the first time this spring\u201cA topographical guide can be helpful, but for your first visit to Font it is much better to be with a local guide who can show you the best circuits according to the weather and your level. As for safety, bouldering in Font is nothing like a climbing gym: the risk of falls should not be underestimated, and make sure you borrow a crash mat.\u201d\u2022 Jean-Pierre Roudneff, editor at bleau.info\u201cFont can be overwhelming because there are so many boulders to choose from. Don\u2019t run around trying to climb them all; just pick one and work at it. Although you will be tempted to keep climbing, have a rest day after a couple of days to let your hands heal, and make sure you use good hand cream at the end of each session. And don\u2019t be put off when locals make everything look so easy: they\u2019ve been climbing the boulders at Font for years.\u201d\u2022 Gabriella Stewart, 15, a Scottish climber who has been bouldering at Font for five years", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Paris holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top rocks: bouldering in Fontainebleau, France"},{"date": "2014-07-26T15:44:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 20 results"},{"date": "2014-07-24T18:16:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "The dip in fortunes that has spread across the eurozone since spring was reversed last month after businesses expanded output and order books swelled \u2013 with the exception of France, which is nearing its third recession since the banking crash.A survey of French businesses found sentiment had improved in June, but they still signalled another period of contraction in the currency zone's second largest economy. The French composite purchasing managers' index (PMI) of both the manufacturing and services sector rose to 49.4 from 48.1 in June, but any result below 50 points towards contraction.Meanwhile, German business activity recovered strongly and other parts of the eurozone saw the recovery pick up speed.The global outlook, which is clouded by the situation in Ukraine, also improved after Chinese factories saw the biggest jump in activity in 18 months, suggesting that the Beijing government's mini-stimulus measures are working. US manufacturers also reported strong demand for their products.The German services sector grew at the fastest rate in three years, pushing the eurozone composite PMI to a three-month high. Until the latest figures Germany's economy appeared to be slowing, largely in response to falling orders from China. Analysts said the latest data revealed a turnaround in the summer months that should bode well for the rest of the year.Lagging economies such as Spain also performed better than expected, with the largest monthly increase in business activity recorded since August 2007 accompanied by a similar surge in new orders growth.Separate official data showed Spain's jobless rate tumbled to its lowest in two years, although nearly a quarter of the labour force is still out of work.In France, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's troubled socialist administration had hoped that a series of major investments and labour market reforms would bear fruit before the summer holiday season. However, unemployment has remained high, order books are low and consumer confidence has waned.Financial data provider Markit, which produces the PMI surveys, said: \"At the heart of France's woes are a stagnant services economy, which points to weak domestic demand and falling confidence among business and households, as well as an increasingly alarming rate of decline in the manufacturing sector.\"The euro reacted to the generally positive news by rallying from an eight-month low against the dollar to $1.34. It rose against the pound to 79.20 pence, having slumped to a 23-month low on Wednesday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "World news", "Euro", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "France", "Economics"], "title": "Eurozone recovery picks up \u2013 except for France"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-08-28T12:16:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "One thing you quickly learn when you go bouldering \u2013 a sort of low-level rock climbing done without ropes \u2013 is that you can find yourself in a pretty sticky situation even when you\u2019re just a few feet off the ground.This thought flashes through my head as I swing my left heel up and on to the top of the 2.5-metre-high hunk of sandstone I\u2019m attempting to climb, praying that my right toe stays glued to the centimetre-wide ledge of rock the rest of my body is balancing on.This time I\u2019m successful. I haul myself over and stand up proudly, only to find a pair of French kids already sitting there enjoying the view.It\u2019s my first visit to Fontainebleau, a region of rocky gorges 60km south-east of Paris that\u2019s widely considered the best destination for bouldering in the world. Climbers of all ages and abilities travel from around the world to visit this tranquil pine forest populated with impressively active French outdoorsy types and thousands of spectacular boulders, with no fewer than 20,000 routes to climb.From the end of the 19th century Fontainebleau \u2013 Font to Brits, Bleau to locals \u2013 was a training site for Alpine climbers. Now, bouldering as a standalone sport is growing in popularity, appealing to those put off by the price of mountaineering equipment \u2013 or perhaps just lacking a head for heights. And Font has become a must-visit destination for those who enjoy the climbing challenge but may have no interest whatsoever in tackling an actual mountain. The minimal kit requirements \u2013 tight-fitting rubber-soled climbing shoes, chalk to keep your hands dry and a crash pad (a kind of foam mattress) for safety \u2013 make it a relatively accessible pastime.Although organised tours are available (Wales-based Rock and Sun offers one-week trips from just \u00a3550) I make the relatively straightforward journey across the Channel with three friends \u2013 all of us first timers to Font \u2013 by car, booking a cheap g\u00eete through Airbnb.The first \u201cchaos\u201d of boulders we visit is called Bas Cuvier (there are 15 or so main clusters within the forest). With crash pads strapped to our backs, we look like turtles with foam shells as we march from the car park into the maze of rocks and ferns. Following an obsessively detailed guidebook (see ) and the heiroglyph-like dashes of coloured paint on the boulders, denoting the various grades and types of route, we eventually reach a rock worth climbing ... and spend the next 40 minutes trying to work out how to do it.Even with crash pads and the group taking it in turns to \u201cspot\u201d \u2013 standing behind the climber with hands out to make sure they don\u2019t hit their head if they fall \u2013 there is some danger; simple moves feel increasingly daring as you ascend. Fortunately the only disasters we experience are scratches, stubbed toes and bruised shins.For three days we roam around, spoilt for choice as to what to climb, using our guidebook to track down boulders with the best routes within our grade range, or simply those with unusual and appealing shapes.On the second day, in an attempt to find a particular spot at Apremont (technically only seven minutes walk from the car park) we end up on an accidental three-hour hike through the forest before we reach our destination, and the day after we find ourselves climbing in a dark, overgrown patch of scrub without another climber in sight.In between climbs we lounge on rocks like basking lizards, eating baguettes and camembert while observing some of the bizarre sights of the area: hulk-armed climbers frantically scrubbing for handholds with what look like toothbrushes, and tanned locals wiping their feet on doormats to get bits of grit off the soles, in order to get a better grip on the rock. We even spot one elderly climber enjoying a cigar atop a rock.\u201cDon\u2019t get too hung up about the grades,\u201d a Font regular advised me, and this proved to be the best attitude. The real satisfaction of bouldering comes from figuring out how to complete a route \u2013 a trial-and-error experience that\u2019s like doing a physical jigsaw puzzle \u2013 and proudly massaging your red, calloused and grazed hands as you hobble home for the evening, to sip on a well-earned beer.You can buy shoes and chalk at climbing centres or sports shops including Decathalon (there\u2019s one at the Villiers-en-Bi\u00e8re near Fontainebleau). Crash pads can be hired from climbing shops in Fontainebleau, from about \u20ac8 a day: try S\u2019cape (scape-shop.com) or Sport Outdoor (sportoutdoorfontainebleau.com), and do check availability in advance at weekends and holidays.Fontainebleau Fun Bloc (Jingo Wobbly Publishing, \u00a330) is a good all-round guide book, with 7,000 routes, 17 kids\u2019 circuits and all the maps you need to find each spot and navigate the boulders. It also has photographic maps of each boulder with routes marked, which makes climbing more straightforward \u2013 once you\u2019ve got your head round the symbols.Because the bouldering spots are spread around 900 sq km of forest, it\u2019s useful to have a car when visiting Fontainebleau. Eurotunnel fares from Folkestone to Calais start at \u00a355 for a car and passengers, returning within five days. Fontainebleau is about 3\u00bd hours\u2019 drive from Calais or one from Paris. The Boulder Bus from London to Fontainebleau costs \u00a3249pp for a weekend sleeper, including all on-board accommodation.For home comforts each evening, there are several self-catering gites in Fontainebleau forest. The Maisonbleau complex near Buthiers caters for climbers, with crash pads to hire and prices from \u20ac300 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping four. At the Haras de la Fontaine complex (france-gite-fontainebleau.fr) in the village of Poligny, south of Nemours, prices start at \u20ac208 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping three. Campsites such as Camping Les Pres camping-grez-fontainebleau.info) south of Fontainebleau and Les Courtilles du Lido (les-courtilles-du-lido.fr) on the forest\u2019s eastern edge have tent pitches from around \u20ac6 a night. Airbnb has a selection of budget accommodation in the town and forest, from about \u00a340 a night for four.\u201cTop-outs (the final move, when you climb on top of the boulder) can be scary and slopey, but good crash mat placement is key for confidence. On top of this, don\u2019t expect to climb at the same level as in Britain (the grading is tougher in France) and prepare to be spanked [really challenged] ... but this makes succeeding all the better.\u201d\u2022 Bethan Thomas from womenclimb.co.uk, who visited Font for the first time this spring\u201cA topographical guide can be helpful, but for your first visit to Font it is much better to be with a local guide who can show you the best circuits according to the weather and your level. As for safety, bouldering in Font is nothing like a climbing gym: the risk of falls should not be underestimated, and make sure you borrow a crash mat.\u201d\u2022 Jean-Pierre Roudneff, editor at bleau.info\u201cFont can be overwhelming because there are so many boulders to choose from. Don\u2019t run around trying to climb them all; just pick one and work at it. Although you will be tempted to keep climbing, have a rest day after a couple of days to let your hands heal, and make sure you use good hand cream at the end of each session. And don\u2019t be put off when locals make everything look so easy: they\u2019ve been climbing the boulders at Font for years.\u201d\u2022 Gabriella Stewart, 15, a Scottish climber who has been bouldering at Font for five years", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Paris holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top rocks: bouldering in Fontainebleau, France"},{"date": "2014-07-26T15:44:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 20 results"},{"date": "2014-07-24T18:16:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "The dip in fortunes that has spread across the eurozone since spring was reversed last month after businesses expanded output and order books swelled \u2013 with the exception of France, which is nearing its third recession since the banking crash.A survey of French businesses found sentiment had improved in June, but they still signalled another period of contraction in the currency zone's second largest economy. The French composite purchasing managers' index (PMI) of both the manufacturing and services sector rose to 49.4 from 48.1 in June, but any result below 50 points towards contraction.Meanwhile, German business activity recovered strongly and other parts of the eurozone saw the recovery pick up speed.The global outlook, which is clouded by the situation in Ukraine, also improved after Chinese factories saw the biggest jump in activity in 18 months, suggesting that the Beijing government's mini-stimulus measures are working. US manufacturers also reported strong demand for their products.The German services sector grew at the fastest rate in three years, pushing the eurozone composite PMI to a three-month high. Until the latest figures Germany's economy appeared to be slowing, largely in response to falling orders from China. Analysts said the latest data revealed a turnaround in the summer months that should bode well for the rest of the year.Lagging economies such as Spain also performed better than expected, with the largest monthly increase in business activity recorded since August 2007 accompanied by a similar surge in new orders growth.Separate official data showed Spain's jobless rate tumbled to its lowest in two years, although nearly a quarter of the labour force is still out of work.In France, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's troubled socialist administration had hoped that a series of major investments and labour market reforms would bear fruit before the summer holiday season. However, unemployment has remained high, order books are low and consumer confidence has waned.Financial data provider Markit, which produces the PMI surveys, said: \"At the heart of France's woes are a stagnant services economy, which points to weak domestic demand and falling confidence among business and households, as well as an increasingly alarming rate of decline in the manufacturing sector.\"The euro reacted to the generally positive news by rallying from an eight-month low against the dollar to $1.34. It rose against the pound to 79.20 pence, having slumped to a 23-month low on Wednesday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "World news", "Euro", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "France", "Economics"], "title": "Eurozone recovery picks up \u2013 except for France"},{"date": "2014-07-24T15:27:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 18 results"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-08-28T12:16:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "One thing you quickly learn when you go bouldering \u2013 a sort of low-level rock climbing done without ropes \u2013 is that you can find yourself in a pretty sticky situation even when you\u2019re just a few feet off the ground.This thought flashes through my head as I swing my left heel up and on to the top of the 2.5-metre-high hunk of sandstone I\u2019m attempting to climb, praying that my right toe stays glued to the centimetre-wide ledge of rock the rest of my body is balancing on.This time I\u2019m successful. I haul myself over and stand up proudly, only to find a pair of French kids already sitting there enjoying the view.It\u2019s my first visit to Fontainebleau, a region of rocky gorges 60km south-east of Paris that\u2019s widely considered the best destination for bouldering in the world. Climbers of all ages and abilities travel from around the world to visit this tranquil pine forest populated with impressively active French outdoorsy types and thousands of spectacular boulders, with no fewer than 20,000 routes to climb.From the end of the 19th century Fontainebleau \u2013 Font to Brits, Bleau to locals \u2013 was a training site for Alpine climbers. Now, bouldering as a standalone sport is growing in popularity, appealing to those put off by the price of mountaineering equipment \u2013 or perhaps just lacking a head for heights. And Font has become a must-visit destination for those who enjoy the climbing challenge but may have no interest whatsoever in tackling an actual mountain. The minimal kit requirements \u2013 tight-fitting rubber-soled climbing shoes, chalk to keep your hands dry and a crash pad (a kind of foam mattress) for safety \u2013 make it a relatively accessible pastime.Although organised tours are available (Wales-based Rock and Sun offers one-week trips from just \u00a3550) I make the relatively straightforward journey across the Channel with three friends \u2013 all of us first timers to Font \u2013 by car, booking a cheap g\u00eete through Airbnb.The first \u201cchaos\u201d of boulders we visit is called Bas Cuvier (there are 15 or so main clusters within the forest). With crash pads strapped to our backs, we look like turtles with foam shells as we march from the car park into the maze of rocks and ferns. Following an obsessively detailed guidebook (see ) and the heiroglyph-like dashes of coloured paint on the boulders, denoting the various grades and types of route, we eventually reach a rock worth climbing ... and spend the next 40 minutes trying to work out how to do it.Even with crash pads and the group taking it in turns to \u201cspot\u201d \u2013 standing behind the climber with hands out to make sure they don\u2019t hit their head if they fall \u2013 there is some danger; simple moves feel increasingly daring as you ascend. Fortunately the only disasters we experience are scratches, stubbed toes and bruised shins.For three days we roam around, spoilt for choice as to what to climb, using our guidebook to track down boulders with the best routes within our grade range, or simply those with unusual and appealing shapes.On the second day, in an attempt to find a particular spot at Apremont (technically only seven minutes walk from the car park) we end up on an accidental three-hour hike through the forest before we reach our destination, and the day after we find ourselves climbing in a dark, overgrown patch of scrub without another climber in sight.In between climbs we lounge on rocks like basking lizards, eating baguettes and camembert while observing some of the bizarre sights of the area: hulk-armed climbers frantically scrubbing for handholds with what look like toothbrushes, and tanned locals wiping their feet on doormats to get bits of grit off the soles, in order to get a better grip on the rock. We even spot one elderly climber enjoying a cigar atop a rock.\u201cDon\u2019t get too hung up about the grades,\u201d a Font regular advised me, and this proved to be the best attitude. The real satisfaction of bouldering comes from figuring out how to complete a route \u2013 a trial-and-error experience that\u2019s like doing a physical jigsaw puzzle \u2013 and proudly massaging your red, calloused and grazed hands as you hobble home for the evening, to sip on a well-earned beer.You can buy shoes and chalk at climbing centres or sports shops including Decathalon (there\u2019s one at the Villiers-en-Bi\u00e8re near Fontainebleau). Crash pads can be hired from climbing shops in Fontainebleau, from about \u20ac8 a day: try S\u2019cape (scape-shop.com) or Sport Outdoor (sportoutdoorfontainebleau.com), and do check availability in advance at weekends and holidays.Fontainebleau Fun Bloc (Jingo Wobbly Publishing, \u00a330) is a good all-round guide book, with 7,000 routes, 17 kids\u2019 circuits and all the maps you need to find each spot and navigate the boulders. It also has photographic maps of each boulder with routes marked, which makes climbing more straightforward \u2013 once you\u2019ve got your head round the symbols.Because the bouldering spots are spread around 900 sq km of forest, it\u2019s useful to have a car when visiting Fontainebleau. Eurotunnel fares from Folkestone to Calais start at \u00a355 for a car and passengers, returning within five days. Fontainebleau is about 3\u00bd hours\u2019 drive from Calais or one from Paris. The Boulder Bus from London to Fontainebleau costs \u00a3249pp for a weekend sleeper, including all on-board accommodation.For home comforts each evening, there are several self-catering gites in Fontainebleau forest. The Maisonbleau complex near Buthiers caters for climbers, with crash pads to hire and prices from \u20ac300 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping four. At the Haras de la Fontaine complex (france-gite-fontainebleau.fr) in the village of Poligny, south of Nemours, prices start at \u20ac208 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping three. Campsites such as Camping Les Pres camping-grez-fontainebleau.info) south of Fontainebleau and Les Courtilles du Lido (les-courtilles-du-lido.fr) on the forest\u2019s eastern edge have tent pitches from around \u20ac6 a night. Airbnb has a selection of budget accommodation in the town and forest, from about \u00a340 a night for four.\u201cTop-outs (the final move, when you climb on top of the boulder) can be scary and slopey, but good crash mat placement is key for confidence. On top of this, don\u2019t expect to climb at the same level as in Britain (the grading is tougher in France) and prepare to be spanked [really challenged] ... but this makes succeeding all the better.\u201d\u2022 Bethan Thomas from womenclimb.co.uk, who visited Font for the first time this spring\u201cA topographical guide can be helpful, but for your first visit to Font it is much better to be with a local guide who can show you the best circuits according to the weather and your level. As for safety, bouldering in Font is nothing like a climbing gym: the risk of falls should not be underestimated, and make sure you borrow a crash mat.\u201d\u2022 Jean-Pierre Roudneff, editor at bleau.info\u201cFont can be overwhelming because there are so many boulders to choose from. Don\u2019t run around trying to climb them all; just pick one and work at it. Although you will be tempted to keep climbing, have a rest day after a couple of days to let your hands heal, and make sure you use good hand cream at the end of each session. And don\u2019t be put off when locals make everything look so easy: they\u2019ve been climbing the boulders at Font for years.\u201d\u2022 Gabriella Stewart, 15, a Scottish climber who has been bouldering at Font for five years", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Paris holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top rocks: bouldering in Fontainebleau, France"},{"date": "2014-07-26T15:44:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 20 results"},{"date": "2014-07-24T18:16:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "The dip in fortunes that has spread across the eurozone since spring was reversed last month after businesses expanded output and order books swelled \u2013 with the exception of France, which is nearing its third recession since the banking crash.A survey of French businesses found sentiment had improved in June, but they still signalled another period of contraction in the currency zone's second largest economy. The French composite purchasing managers' index (PMI) of both the manufacturing and services sector rose to 49.4 from 48.1 in June, but any result below 50 points towards contraction.Meanwhile, German business activity recovered strongly and other parts of the eurozone saw the recovery pick up speed.The global outlook, which is clouded by the situation in Ukraine, also improved after Chinese factories saw the biggest jump in activity in 18 months, suggesting that the Beijing government's mini-stimulus measures are working. US manufacturers also reported strong demand for their products.The German services sector grew at the fastest rate in three years, pushing the eurozone composite PMI to a three-month high. Until the latest figures Germany's economy appeared to be slowing, largely in response to falling orders from China. Analysts said the latest data revealed a turnaround in the summer months that should bode well for the rest of the year.Lagging economies such as Spain also performed better than expected, with the largest monthly increase in business activity recorded since August 2007 accompanied by a similar surge in new orders growth.Separate official data showed Spain's jobless rate tumbled to its lowest in two years, although nearly a quarter of the labour force is still out of work.In France, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's troubled socialist administration had hoped that a series of major investments and labour market reforms would bear fruit before the summer holiday season. However, unemployment has remained high, order books are low and consumer confidence has waned.Financial data provider Markit, which produces the PMI surveys, said: \"At the heart of France's woes are a stagnant services economy, which points to weak domestic demand and falling confidence among business and households, as well as an increasingly alarming rate of decline in the manufacturing sector.\"The euro reacted to the generally positive news by rallying from an eight-month low against the dollar to $1.34. It rose against the pound to 79.20 pence, having slumped to a 23-month low on Wednesday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "World news", "Euro", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "France", "Economics"], "title": "Eurozone recovery picks up \u2013 except for France"},{"date": "2014-07-24T15:27:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 18 results"},{"date": "2014-07-27T17:25:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 21 results"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-08-28T12:16:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "One thing you quickly learn when you go bouldering \u2013 a sort of low-level rock climbing done without ropes \u2013 is that you can find yourself in a pretty sticky situation even when you\u2019re just a few feet off the ground.This thought flashes through my head as I swing my left heel up and on to the top of the 2.5-metre-high hunk of sandstone I\u2019m attempting to climb, praying that my right toe stays glued to the centimetre-wide ledge of rock the rest of my body is balancing on.This time I\u2019m successful. I haul myself over and stand up proudly, only to find a pair of French kids already sitting there enjoying the view.It\u2019s my first visit to Fontainebleau, a region of rocky gorges 60km south-east of Paris that\u2019s widely considered the best destination for bouldering in the world. Climbers of all ages and abilities travel from around the world to visit this tranquil pine forest populated with impressively active French outdoorsy types and thousands of spectacular boulders, with no fewer than 20,000 routes to climb.From the end of the 19th century Fontainebleau \u2013 Font to Brits, Bleau to locals \u2013 was a training site for Alpine climbers. Now, bouldering as a standalone sport is growing in popularity, appealing to those put off by the price of mountaineering equipment \u2013 or perhaps just lacking a head for heights. And Font has become a must-visit destination for those who enjoy the climbing challenge but may have no interest whatsoever in tackling an actual mountain. The minimal kit requirements \u2013 tight-fitting rubber-soled climbing shoes, chalk to keep your hands dry and a crash pad (a kind of foam mattress) for safety \u2013 make it a relatively accessible pastime.Although organised tours are available (Wales-based Rock and Sun offers one-week trips from just \u00a3550) I make the relatively straightforward journey across the Channel with three friends \u2013 all of us first timers to Font \u2013 by car, booking a cheap g\u00eete through Airbnb.The first \u201cchaos\u201d of boulders we visit is called Bas Cuvier (there are 15 or so main clusters within the forest). With crash pads strapped to our backs, we look like turtles with foam shells as we march from the car park into the maze of rocks and ferns. Following an obsessively detailed guidebook (see ) and the heiroglyph-like dashes of coloured paint on the boulders, denoting the various grades and types of route, we eventually reach a rock worth climbing ... and spend the next 40 minutes trying to work out how to do it.Even with crash pads and the group taking it in turns to \u201cspot\u201d \u2013 standing behind the climber with hands out to make sure they don\u2019t hit their head if they fall \u2013 there is some danger; simple moves feel increasingly daring as you ascend. Fortunately the only disasters we experience are scratches, stubbed toes and bruised shins.For three days we roam around, spoilt for choice as to what to climb, using our guidebook to track down boulders with the best routes within our grade range, or simply those with unusual and appealing shapes.On the second day, in an attempt to find a particular spot at Apremont (technically only seven minutes walk from the car park) we end up on an accidental three-hour hike through the forest before we reach our destination, and the day after we find ourselves climbing in a dark, overgrown patch of scrub without another climber in sight.In between climbs we lounge on rocks like basking lizards, eating baguettes and camembert while observing some of the bizarre sights of the area: hulk-armed climbers frantically scrubbing for handholds with what look like toothbrushes, and tanned locals wiping their feet on doormats to get bits of grit off the soles, in order to get a better grip on the rock. We even spot one elderly climber enjoying a cigar atop a rock.\u201cDon\u2019t get too hung up about the grades,\u201d a Font regular advised me, and this proved to be the best attitude. The real satisfaction of bouldering comes from figuring out how to complete a route \u2013 a trial-and-error experience that\u2019s like doing a physical jigsaw puzzle \u2013 and proudly massaging your red, calloused and grazed hands as you hobble home for the evening, to sip on a well-earned beer.You can buy shoes and chalk at climbing centres or sports shops including Decathalon (there\u2019s one at the Villiers-en-Bi\u00e8re near Fontainebleau). Crash pads can be hired from climbing shops in Fontainebleau, from about \u20ac8 a day: try S\u2019cape (scape-shop.com) or Sport Outdoor (sportoutdoorfontainebleau.com), and do check availability in advance at weekends and holidays.Fontainebleau Fun Bloc (Jingo Wobbly Publishing, \u00a330) is a good all-round guide book, with 7,000 routes, 17 kids\u2019 circuits and all the maps you need to find each spot and navigate the boulders. It also has photographic maps of each boulder with routes marked, which makes climbing more straightforward \u2013 once you\u2019ve got your head round the symbols.Because the bouldering spots are spread around 900 sq km of forest, it\u2019s useful to have a car when visiting Fontainebleau. Eurotunnel fares from Folkestone to Calais start at \u00a355 for a car and passengers, returning within five days. Fontainebleau is about 3\u00bd hours\u2019 drive from Calais or one from Paris. The Boulder Bus from London to Fontainebleau costs \u00a3249pp for a weekend sleeper, including all on-board accommodation.For home comforts each evening, there are several self-catering gites in Fontainebleau forest. The Maisonbleau complex near Buthiers caters for climbers, with crash pads to hire and prices from \u20ac300 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping four. At the Haras de la Fontaine complex (france-gite-fontainebleau.fr) in the village of Poligny, south of Nemours, prices start at \u20ac208 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping three. Campsites such as Camping Les Pres camping-grez-fontainebleau.info) south of Fontainebleau and Les Courtilles du Lido (les-courtilles-du-lido.fr) on the forest\u2019s eastern edge have tent pitches from around \u20ac6 a night. Airbnb has a selection of budget accommodation in the town and forest, from about \u00a340 a night for four.\u201cTop-outs (the final move, when you climb on top of the boulder) can be scary and slopey, but good crash mat placement is key for confidence. On top of this, don\u2019t expect to climb at the same level as in Britain (the grading is tougher in France) and prepare to be spanked [really challenged] ... but this makes succeeding all the better.\u201d\u2022 Bethan Thomas from womenclimb.co.uk, who visited Font for the first time this spring\u201cA topographical guide can be helpful, but for your first visit to Font it is much better to be with a local guide who can show you the best circuits according to the weather and your level. As for safety, bouldering in Font is nothing like a climbing gym: the risk of falls should not be underestimated, and make sure you borrow a crash mat.\u201d\u2022 Jean-Pierre Roudneff, editor at bleau.info\u201cFont can be overwhelming because there are so many boulders to choose from. Don\u2019t run around trying to climb them all; just pick one and work at it. Although you will be tempted to keep climbing, have a rest day after a couple of days to let your hands heal, and make sure you use good hand cream at the end of each session. And don\u2019t be put off when locals make everything look so easy: they\u2019ve been climbing the boulders at Font for years.\u201d\u2022 Gabriella Stewart, 15, a Scottish climber who has been bouldering at Font for five years", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Paris holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top rocks: bouldering in Fontainebleau, France"},{"date": "2014-07-26T15:44:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 20 results"},{"date": "2014-07-24T18:16:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "The dip in fortunes that has spread across the eurozone since spring was reversed last month after businesses expanded output and order books swelled \u2013 with the exception of France, which is nearing its third recession since the banking crash.A survey of French businesses found sentiment had improved in June, but they still signalled another period of contraction in the currency zone's second largest economy. The French composite purchasing managers' index (PMI) of both the manufacturing and services sector rose to 49.4 from 48.1 in June, but any result below 50 points towards contraction.Meanwhile, German business activity recovered strongly and other parts of the eurozone saw the recovery pick up speed.The global outlook, which is clouded by the situation in Ukraine, also improved after Chinese factories saw the biggest jump in activity in 18 months, suggesting that the Beijing government's mini-stimulus measures are working. US manufacturers also reported strong demand for their products.The German services sector grew at the fastest rate in three years, pushing the eurozone composite PMI to a three-month high. Until the latest figures Germany's economy appeared to be slowing, largely in response to falling orders from China. Analysts said the latest data revealed a turnaround in the summer months that should bode well for the rest of the year.Lagging economies such as Spain also performed better than expected, with the largest monthly increase in business activity recorded since August 2007 accompanied by a similar surge in new orders growth.Separate official data showed Spain's jobless rate tumbled to its lowest in two years, although nearly a quarter of the labour force is still out of work.In France, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's troubled socialist administration had hoped that a series of major investments and labour market reforms would bear fruit before the summer holiday season. However, unemployment has remained high, order books are low and consumer confidence has waned.Financial data provider Markit, which produces the PMI surveys, said: \"At the heart of France's woes are a stagnant services economy, which points to weak domestic demand and falling confidence among business and households, as well as an increasingly alarming rate of decline in the manufacturing sector.\"The euro reacted to the generally positive news by rallying from an eight-month low against the dollar to $1.34. It rose against the pound to 79.20 pence, having slumped to a 23-month low on Wednesday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "World news", "Euro", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "France", "Economics"], "title": "Eurozone recovery picks up \u2013 except for France"},{"date": "2014-07-24T15:27:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 18 results"},{"date": "2014-07-27T17:25:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 21 results"},{"date": "2014-07-25T15:11:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 19 results"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-08-28T12:16:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "One thing you quickly learn when you go bouldering \u2013 a sort of low-level rock climbing done without ropes \u2013 is that you can find yourself in a pretty sticky situation even when you\u2019re just a few feet off the ground.This thought flashes through my head as I swing my left heel up and on to the top of the 2.5-metre-high hunk of sandstone I\u2019m attempting to climb, praying that my right toe stays glued to the centimetre-wide ledge of rock the rest of my body is balancing on.This time I\u2019m successful. I haul myself over and stand up proudly, only to find a pair of French kids already sitting there enjoying the view.It\u2019s my first visit to Fontainebleau, a region of rocky gorges 60km south-east of Paris that\u2019s widely considered the best destination for bouldering in the world. Climbers of all ages and abilities travel from around the world to visit this tranquil pine forest populated with impressively active French outdoorsy types and thousands of spectacular boulders, with no fewer than 20,000 routes to climb.From the end of the 19th century Fontainebleau \u2013 Font to Brits, Bleau to locals \u2013 was a training site for Alpine climbers. Now, bouldering as a standalone sport is growing in popularity, appealing to those put off by the price of mountaineering equipment \u2013 or perhaps just lacking a head for heights. And Font has become a must-visit destination for those who enjoy the climbing challenge but may have no interest whatsoever in tackling an actual mountain. The minimal kit requirements \u2013 tight-fitting rubber-soled climbing shoes, chalk to keep your hands dry and a crash pad (a kind of foam mattress) for safety \u2013 make it a relatively accessible pastime.Although organised tours are available (Wales-based Rock and Sun offers one-week trips from just \u00a3550) I make the relatively straightforward journey across the Channel with three friends \u2013 all of us first timers to Font \u2013 by car, booking a cheap g\u00eete through Airbnb.The first \u201cchaos\u201d of boulders we visit is called Bas Cuvier (there are 15 or so main clusters within the forest). With crash pads strapped to our backs, we look like turtles with foam shells as we march from the car park into the maze of rocks and ferns. Following an obsessively detailed guidebook (see ) and the heiroglyph-like dashes of coloured paint on the boulders, denoting the various grades and types of route, we eventually reach a rock worth climbing ... and spend the next 40 minutes trying to work out how to do it.Even with crash pads and the group taking it in turns to \u201cspot\u201d \u2013 standing behind the climber with hands out to make sure they don\u2019t hit their head if they fall \u2013 there is some danger; simple moves feel increasingly daring as you ascend. Fortunately the only disasters we experience are scratches, stubbed toes and bruised shins.For three days we roam around, spoilt for choice as to what to climb, using our guidebook to track down boulders with the best routes within our grade range, or simply those with unusual and appealing shapes.On the second day, in an attempt to find a particular spot at Apremont (technically only seven minutes walk from the car park) we end up on an accidental three-hour hike through the forest before we reach our destination, and the day after we find ourselves climbing in a dark, overgrown patch of scrub without another climber in sight.In between climbs we lounge on rocks like basking lizards, eating baguettes and camembert while observing some of the bizarre sights of the area: hulk-armed climbers frantically scrubbing for handholds with what look like toothbrushes, and tanned locals wiping their feet on doormats to get bits of grit off the soles, in order to get a better grip on the rock. We even spot one elderly climber enjoying a cigar atop a rock.\u201cDon\u2019t get too hung up about the grades,\u201d a Font regular advised me, and this proved to be the best attitude. The real satisfaction of bouldering comes from figuring out how to complete a route \u2013 a trial-and-error experience that\u2019s like doing a physical jigsaw puzzle \u2013 and proudly massaging your red, calloused and grazed hands as you hobble home for the evening, to sip on a well-earned beer.You can buy shoes and chalk at climbing centres or sports shops including Decathalon (there\u2019s one at the Villiers-en-Bi\u00e8re near Fontainebleau). Crash pads can be hired from climbing shops in Fontainebleau, from about \u20ac8 a day: try S\u2019cape (scape-shop.com) or Sport Outdoor (sportoutdoorfontainebleau.com), and do check availability in advance at weekends and holidays.Fontainebleau Fun Bloc (Jingo Wobbly Publishing, \u00a330) is a good all-round guide book, with 7,000 routes, 17 kids\u2019 circuits and all the maps you need to find each spot and navigate the boulders. It also has photographic maps of each boulder with routes marked, which makes climbing more straightforward \u2013 once you\u2019ve got your head round the symbols.Because the bouldering spots are spread around 900 sq km of forest, it\u2019s useful to have a car when visiting Fontainebleau. Eurotunnel fares from Folkestone to Calais start at \u00a355 for a car and passengers, returning within five days. Fontainebleau is about 3\u00bd hours\u2019 drive from Calais or one from Paris. The Boulder Bus from London to Fontainebleau costs \u00a3249pp for a weekend sleeper, including all on-board accommodation.For home comforts each evening, there are several self-catering gites in Fontainebleau forest. The Maisonbleau complex near Buthiers caters for climbers, with crash pads to hire and prices from \u20ac300 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping four. At the Haras de la Fontaine complex (france-gite-fontainebleau.fr) in the village of Poligny, south of Nemours, prices start at \u20ac208 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping three. Campsites such as Camping Les Pres camping-grez-fontainebleau.info) south of Fontainebleau and Les Courtilles du Lido (les-courtilles-du-lido.fr) on the forest\u2019s eastern edge have tent pitches from around \u20ac6 a night. Airbnb has a selection of budget accommodation in the town and forest, from about \u00a340 a night for four.\u201cTop-outs (the final move, when you climb on top of the boulder) can be scary and slopey, but good crash mat placement is key for confidence. On top of this, don\u2019t expect to climb at the same level as in Britain (the grading is tougher in France) and prepare to be spanked [really challenged] ... but this makes succeeding all the better.\u201d\u2022 Bethan Thomas from womenclimb.co.uk, who visited Font for the first time this spring\u201cA topographical guide can be helpful, but for your first visit to Font it is much better to be with a local guide who can show you the best circuits according to the weather and your level. As for safety, bouldering in Font is nothing like a climbing gym: the risk of falls should not be underestimated, and make sure you borrow a crash mat.\u201d\u2022 Jean-Pierre Roudneff, editor at bleau.info\u201cFont can be overwhelming because there are so many boulders to choose from. Don\u2019t run around trying to climb them all; just pick one and work at it. Although you will be tempted to keep climbing, have a rest day after a couple of days to let your hands heal, and make sure you use good hand cream at the end of each session. And don\u2019t be put off when locals make everything look so easy: they\u2019ve been climbing the boulders at Font for years.\u201d\u2022 Gabriella Stewart, 15, a Scottish climber who has been bouldering at Font for five years", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Paris holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top rocks: bouldering in Fontainebleau, France"},{"date": "2014-07-26T15:44:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 20 results"},{"date": "2014-07-24T18:16:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "The dip in fortunes that has spread across the eurozone since spring was reversed last month after businesses expanded output and order books swelled \u2013 with the exception of France, which is nearing its third recession since the banking crash.A survey of French businesses found sentiment had improved in June, but they still signalled another period of contraction in the currency zone's second largest economy. The French composite purchasing managers' index (PMI) of both the manufacturing and services sector rose to 49.4 from 48.1 in June, but any result below 50 points towards contraction.Meanwhile, German business activity recovered strongly and other parts of the eurozone saw the recovery pick up speed.The global outlook, which is clouded by the situation in Ukraine, also improved after Chinese factories saw the biggest jump in activity in 18 months, suggesting that the Beijing government's mini-stimulus measures are working. US manufacturers also reported strong demand for their products.The German services sector grew at the fastest rate in three years, pushing the eurozone composite PMI to a three-month high. Until the latest figures Germany's economy appeared to be slowing, largely in response to falling orders from China. Analysts said the latest data revealed a turnaround in the summer months that should bode well for the rest of the year.Lagging economies such as Spain also performed better than expected, with the largest monthly increase in business activity recorded since August 2007 accompanied by a similar surge in new orders growth.Separate official data showed Spain's jobless rate tumbled to its lowest in two years, although nearly a quarter of the labour force is still out of work.In France, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's troubled socialist administration had hoped that a series of major investments and labour market reforms would bear fruit before the summer holiday season. However, unemployment has remained high, order books are low and consumer confidence has waned.Financial data provider Markit, which produces the PMI surveys, said: \"At the heart of France's woes are a stagnant services economy, which points to weak domestic demand and falling confidence among business and households, as well as an increasingly alarming rate of decline in the manufacturing sector.\"The euro reacted to the generally positive news by rallying from an eight-month low against the dollar to $1.34. It rose against the pound to 79.20 pence, having slumped to a 23-month low on Wednesday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "World news", "Euro", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "France", "Economics"], "title": "Eurozone recovery picks up \u2013 except for France"},{"date": "2014-07-24T15:27:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 18 results"},{"date": "2014-07-27T17:25:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 21 results"},{"date": "2014-07-25T15:11:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 19 results"},{"date": "2014-07-20T15:13:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 15 results"},{"date": "2014-09-10T18:49:52Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has admitted it will overshoot the EU's 3% budget deficit target this year, putting the eurozone's second-biggest economy on a collision course with Brussels.French finance minister Michel Sapin said Paris would fail to cut its budget deficit to the EU limit before 2017, with a deficit for this year of 4.4% of GDP, falling only slightly in 2015 to 4.3% \u2013 well above the maximum permitted, though smaller than the UK's 5.6%.He added that growth this year would be a sluggish 0.4%, down from an initial estimate of 1%.France is gambling that EU officials will be forced to recognise that low growth and poor tax receipts in recent years have hampered efforts to bring down the budget deficit.President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, who is battling to restore his reputation following wounding allegations by his former lover Val\u00e9rie Trierweiler, expects to suffer budget deficits in excess of 3% for two more years and is lobbying for greater flexibility from Brussels.The German chancellor, Angela Merkel, has stepped into the debate, making it clear that respect for the EU's 3% deficit target was needed to promote growth within the 28-member currency zone.\"We should take very seriously that the [European] commission has now rightly indicated that straying from the reform course is the biggest risk for further recovery,\" she told German MPs.The beleaguered finance minister, who has presided over two quarters during which the economy has stagnated, also suffered bad news from the manufacturing sector, which contracted 0.3% in July. Broader figures showed industrial production grew by 0.2%, boosted by energy production.HSBC analyst Mathilde Lemoine said: \"These numbers do not show a strengthening in industrial production momentum against expectations: after two quarters of decline, French industrial production could only stabilise.\"Officially, Paris was banking on a growth rate of 1% this year, but Sapin had already admitted this was too optimistic and predicted last month the economy would grow by around 0.5%. The French economy will only get back to 1% growth next year, Sapin said.Merkel, who has presided over Germany's first budget surplus in 45 years, appeared to take a tough line when told of France's latest predicament.She has succeeded in putting two hardliners as commissioners in charge of the EU's budget, heightening expectations that France will face a more difficult negotiation in Brussels over its compliance with budget rules.Merkel said the recovery was in place and would only be undermined by a return to debt-financed spending. She said eurozone growth was \"now reality\", adding: \"Economic activity financed on credit is set to finally end.\"And she echoed comments by finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, saying \"keeping to our incurred commitments in Europe, especially in the eurozone, must, unlike in the past, finally become the hallmark of the eurozone\".The Bundestag is due to vote on Friday on its draft budget for next year, which is expected to also register a surplus.A German finance ministry spokeswoman spelled out that it was up to the EU Commission - the EU's executive arm - to decide how to react, including what punitive measures to take.\"Otherwise we risk our credibility, and dependability and stability are essential for confidence in the eurozone,\" she told reporters.The latest budget deficit will prove a blow to Hollande, who is already the most unpopular president in modern history. Last year he predicted a recovery in 2014, but the country has continued to struggle with record unemployment and stagnant growth.He has made clear that France wants the European Central Bank (ECB) to make credit cheaper to drive growth and create jobs. The ECB president, Mario Draghi, reluctantly backed further easing of credit in July, though he has argued it is the job of governments to spur growth based on reforms of business and labour markets.Hollande has lobbied alongside the Italian prime minister, Matteo Renzi, for the EU commission to adopt greater flexibility with respect to budget deficit rules and for Draghi to go further and adopt electronic money printing, known as quantitative easing.Italy's GDP growth is forecast to be zero this year. Rome needs to slash \u20ac20bn (\u00a316bn) in spending next year to keep its deficit at or below the EU deficit limit while making labour-tax cuts and maintaining recent income-tax reductions.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "France", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European monetary union", "Economics", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Business"], "title": "France to miss EU budget deficit target"},{"date": "2014-08-28T12:16:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "One thing you quickly learn when you go bouldering \u2013 a sort of low-level rock climbing done without ropes \u2013 is that you can find yourself in a pretty sticky situation even when you\u2019re just a few feet off the ground.This thought flashes through my head as I swing my left heel up and on to the top of the 2.5-metre-high hunk of sandstone I\u2019m attempting to climb, praying that my right toe stays glued to the centimetre-wide ledge of rock the rest of my body is balancing on.This time I\u2019m successful. I haul myself over and stand up proudly, only to find a pair of French kids already sitting there enjoying the view.It\u2019s my first visit to Fontainebleau, a region of rocky gorges 60km south-east of Paris that\u2019s widely considered the best destination for bouldering in the world. Climbers of all ages and abilities travel from around the world to visit this tranquil pine forest populated with impressively active French outdoorsy types and thousands of spectacular boulders, with no fewer than 20,000 routes to climb.From the end of the 19th century Fontainebleau \u2013 Font to Brits, Bleau to locals \u2013 was a training site for Alpine climbers. Now, bouldering as a standalone sport is growing in popularity, appealing to those put off by the price of mountaineering equipment \u2013 or perhaps just lacking a head for heights. And Font has become a must-visit destination for those who enjoy the climbing challenge but may have no interest whatsoever in tackling an actual mountain. The minimal kit requirements \u2013 tight-fitting rubber-soled climbing shoes, chalk to keep your hands dry and a crash pad (a kind of foam mattress) for safety \u2013 make it a relatively accessible pastime.Although organised tours are available (Wales-based Rock and Sun offers one-week trips from just \u00a3550) I make the relatively straightforward journey across the Channel with three friends \u2013 all of us first timers to Font \u2013 by car, booking a cheap g\u00eete through Airbnb.The first \u201cchaos\u201d of boulders we visit is called Bas Cuvier (there are 15 or so main clusters within the forest). With crash pads strapped to our backs, we look like turtles with foam shells as we march from the car park into the maze of rocks and ferns. Following an obsessively detailed guidebook (see ) and the heiroglyph-like dashes of coloured paint on the boulders, denoting the various grades and types of route, we eventually reach a rock worth climbing ... and spend the next 40 minutes trying to work out how to do it.Even with crash pads and the group taking it in turns to \u201cspot\u201d \u2013 standing behind the climber with hands out to make sure they don\u2019t hit their head if they fall \u2013 there is some danger; simple moves feel increasingly daring as you ascend. Fortunately the only disasters we experience are scratches, stubbed toes and bruised shins.For three days we roam around, spoilt for choice as to what to climb, using our guidebook to track down boulders with the best routes within our grade range, or simply those with unusual and appealing shapes.On the second day, in an attempt to find a particular spot at Apremont (technically only seven minutes walk from the car park) we end up on an accidental three-hour hike through the forest before we reach our destination, and the day after we find ourselves climbing in a dark, overgrown patch of scrub without another climber in sight.In between climbs we lounge on rocks like basking lizards, eating baguettes and camembert while observing some of the bizarre sights of the area: hulk-armed climbers frantically scrubbing for handholds with what look like toothbrushes, and tanned locals wiping their feet on doormats to get bits of grit off the soles, in order to get a better grip on the rock. We even spot one elderly climber enjoying a cigar atop a rock.\u201cDon\u2019t get too hung up about the grades,\u201d a Font regular advised me, and this proved to be the best attitude. The real satisfaction of bouldering comes from figuring out how to complete a route \u2013 a trial-and-error experience that\u2019s like doing a physical jigsaw puzzle \u2013 and proudly massaging your red, calloused and grazed hands as you hobble home for the evening, to sip on a well-earned beer.You can buy shoes and chalk at climbing centres or sports shops including Decathalon (there\u2019s one at the Villiers-en-Bi\u00e8re near Fontainebleau). Crash pads can be hired from climbing shops in Fontainebleau, from about \u20ac8 a day: try S\u2019cape (scape-shop.com) or Sport Outdoor (sportoutdoorfontainebleau.com), and do check availability in advance at weekends and holidays.Fontainebleau Fun Bloc (Jingo Wobbly Publishing, \u00a330) is a good all-round guide book, with 7,000 routes, 17 kids\u2019 circuits and all the maps you need to find each spot and navigate the boulders. It also has photographic maps of each boulder with routes marked, which makes climbing more straightforward \u2013 once you\u2019ve got your head round the symbols.Because the bouldering spots are spread around 900 sq km of forest, it\u2019s useful to have a car when visiting Fontainebleau. Eurotunnel fares from Folkestone to Calais start at \u00a355 for a car and passengers, returning within five days. Fontainebleau is about 3\u00bd hours\u2019 drive from Calais or one from Paris. The Boulder Bus from London to Fontainebleau costs \u00a3249pp for a weekend sleeper, including all on-board accommodation.For home comforts each evening, there are several self-catering gites in Fontainebleau forest. The Maisonbleau complex near Buthiers caters for climbers, with crash pads to hire and prices from \u20ac300 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping four. At the Haras de la Fontaine complex (france-gite-fontainebleau.fr) in the village of Poligny, south of Nemours, prices start at \u20ac208 a week for a g\u00eete sleeping three. Campsites such as Camping Les Pres camping-grez-fontainebleau.info) south of Fontainebleau and Les Courtilles du Lido (les-courtilles-du-lido.fr) on the forest\u2019s eastern edge have tent pitches from around \u20ac6 a night. Airbnb has a selection of budget accommodation in the town and forest, from about \u00a340 a night for four.\u201cTop-outs (the final move, when you climb on top of the boulder) can be scary and slopey, but good crash mat placement is key for confidence. On top of this, don\u2019t expect to climb at the same level as in Britain (the grading is tougher in France) and prepare to be spanked [really challenged] ... but this makes succeeding all the better.\u201d\u2022 Bethan Thomas from womenclimb.co.uk, who visited Font for the first time this spring\u201cA topographical guide can be helpful, but for your first visit to Font it is much better to be with a local guide who can show you the best circuits according to the weather and your level. As for safety, bouldering in Font is nothing like a climbing gym: the risk of falls should not be underestimated, and make sure you borrow a crash mat.\u201d\u2022 Jean-Pierre Roudneff, editor at bleau.info\u201cFont can be overwhelming because there are so many boulders to choose from. Don\u2019t run around trying to climb them all; just pick one and work at it. Although you will be tempted to keep climbing, have a rest day after a couple of days to let your hands heal, and make sure you use good hand cream at the end of each session. And don\u2019t be put off when locals make everything look so easy: they\u2019ve been climbing the boulders at Font for years.\u201d\u2022 Gabriella Stewart, 15, a Scottish climber who has been bouldering at Font for five years", "tags": ["Climbing holidays", "Paris holidays", "France holidays", "Adventure travel", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top rocks: bouldering in Fontainebleau, France"},{"date": "2014-07-26T15:44:13Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 20 results"},{"date": "2014-07-24T18:16:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "The dip in fortunes that has spread across the eurozone since spring was reversed last month after businesses expanded output and order books swelled \u2013 with the exception of France, which is nearing its third recession since the banking crash.A survey of French businesses found sentiment had improved in June, but they still signalled another period of contraction in the currency zone's second largest economy. The French composite purchasing managers' index (PMI) of both the manufacturing and services sector rose to 49.4 from 48.1 in June, but any result below 50 points towards contraction.Meanwhile, German business activity recovered strongly and other parts of the eurozone saw the recovery pick up speed.The global outlook, which is clouded by the situation in Ukraine, also improved after Chinese factories saw the biggest jump in activity in 18 months, suggesting that the Beijing government's mini-stimulus measures are working. US manufacturers also reported strong demand for their products.The German services sector grew at the fastest rate in three years, pushing the eurozone composite PMI to a three-month high. Until the latest figures Germany's economy appeared to be slowing, largely in response to falling orders from China. Analysts said the latest data revealed a turnaround in the summer months that should bode well for the rest of the year.Lagging economies such as Spain also performed better than expected, with the largest monthly increase in business activity recorded since August 2007 accompanied by a similar surge in new orders growth.Separate official data showed Spain's jobless rate tumbled to its lowest in two years, although nearly a quarter of the labour force is still out of work.In France, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande's troubled socialist administration had hoped that a series of major investments and labour market reforms would bear fruit before the summer holiday season. However, unemployment has remained high, order books are low and consumer confidence has waned.Financial data provider Markit, which produces the PMI surveys, said: \"At the heart of France's woes are a stagnant services economy, which points to weak domestic demand and falling confidence among business and households, as well as an increasingly alarming rate of decline in the manufacturing sector.\"The euro reacted to the generally positive news by rallying from an eight-month low against the dollar to $1.34. It rose against the pound to 79.20 pence, having slumped to a 23-month low on Wednesday.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "European monetary union", "World news", "Euro", "European Union", "Europe", "Business", "France", "Economics"], "title": "Eurozone recovery picks up \u2013 except for France"},{"date": "2014-07-24T15:27:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 18 results"},{"date": "2014-07-27T17:25:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 21 results"},{"date": "2014-07-25T15:11:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 19 results"},{"date": "2014-07-20T15:13:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 15 results"},{"date": "2014-07-23T15:21:58Z", "country": "france", "content": "", "tags": ["Tour de France 2014", "Cycling", "Tour de France"], "title": "Tour de France 2014: stage 17 results"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:34:07Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jars of foie gras are flying off supermarket shelves as they usually do in the festive season, but could it be that the French, the principal producers and consumers of the delicacy, are becoming squeamish about the controversial gourmet dish?According to an OpinionWay poll carried out for a French animal protection group, 47% of those questioned said they would support a ban on the force feeding of geese and ducks, the process by which foie gras, or fatty liver, is made.Known as gavage in French, the process involves pumping corn mash into the gullets of geese and ducks to enlarge their livers. Animal rights groups denounce it as gruesome and cruel and have called the dish \u201ctorture in a tin\u201d.California banned foie gras in a 2004 ruling that was upheld by the supreme court in October after appeals by restaurant owners and producers.In France, the L214 animal rights group has been campaigning against force-feeding and noted that the percentage of those opposed to the process was three points higher this year than in 2013.The poll released on Saturday showed that 29% said they would avoid buying the delicacy for ethical reasons. L214 said sales in France had declined by 5.6% over the past three years.One producer in Aiguillon, south-west France, played down the impact of the study:\u201cIf people don\u2019t like foie gras, they don\u2019t need to eat it. Just don\u2019t harass us, that\u2019s all\u201d.Hubert Garez of the foie gras producer La Ferme de Ramon, said eating foie gras was a pleasure. \u201cIt will remain a French dish. It\u2019s part of our originality,\u201d he said.Of those surveyed, 77% said they would prefer foie gras that was not made through force feeding,but Garez was sceptical, saying the French public research institute INRA had looked into alternatives \u201cand it would be a disaster\u201d. Animal rights organisations accuse the INRA of siding with the foie gras producers.Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the production of foie gras. An increasing number of chefs in Britain, including in the royal household of the Prince of Wales, have removed the dish from their menus.Earlier this month, the celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal dropped his French supplier of foie gras, after seeing a video which showed caged birds covered in feed and vomit being force-fed. Brigitte Gothi\u00e8re, a L214 spokeswoman, said: \u201cIn the light of such images, we are expecting the same reaction in France as in England.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Force-fed foie gras loses favour in France"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:34:07Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jars of foie gras are flying off supermarket shelves as they usually do in the festive season, but could it be that the French, the principal producers and consumers of the delicacy, are becoming squeamish about the controversial gourmet dish?According to an OpinionWay poll carried out for a French animal protection group, 47% of those questioned said they would support a ban on the force feeding of geese and ducks, the process by which foie gras, or fatty liver, is made.Known as gavage in French, the process involves pumping corn mash into the gullets of geese and ducks to enlarge their livers. Animal rights groups denounce it as gruesome and cruel and have called the dish \u201ctorture in a tin\u201d.California banned foie gras in a 2004 ruling that was upheld by the supreme court in October after appeals by restaurant owners and producers.In France, the L214 animal rights group has been campaigning against force-feeding and noted that the percentage of those opposed to the process was three points higher this year than in 2013.The poll released on Saturday showed that 29% said they would avoid buying the delicacy for ethical reasons. L214 said sales in France had declined by 5.6% over the past three years.One producer in Aiguillon, south-west France, played down the impact of the study:\u201cIf people don\u2019t like foie gras, they don\u2019t need to eat it. Just don\u2019t harass us, that\u2019s all\u201d.Hubert Garez of the foie gras producer La Ferme de Ramon, said eating foie gras was a pleasure. \u201cIt will remain a French dish. It\u2019s part of our originality,\u201d he said.Of those surveyed, 77% said they would prefer foie gras that was not made through force feeding,but Garez was sceptical, saying the French public research institute INRA had looked into alternatives \u201cand it would be a disaster\u201d. Animal rights organisations accuse the INRA of siding with the foie gras producers.Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the production of foie gras. An increasing number of chefs in Britain, including in the royal household of the Prince of Wales, have removed the dish from their menus.Earlier this month, the celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal dropped his French supplier of foie gras, after seeing a video which showed caged birds covered in feed and vomit being force-fed. Brigitte Gothi\u00e8re, a L214 spokeswoman, said: \u201cIn the light of such images, we are expecting the same reaction in France as in England.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Force-fed foie gras loses favour in France"},{"date": "2014-12-16T15:32:17Z", "country": "france", "content": "Award-winning French novelist Michel Houellebecq has sparked an outcry after it emerged that his new novel tells of France being run by a Muslim president.In 2022, with the help of the French Socialist party and the centrists, Mohammed Ben Abbes defeats the far-right Front National and takes up residence at the Elys\u00e9e Palace. The country is in turmoil.Soumission (Submission), which will be published in the new year, will confirm Houellebecq\u2019s reputation as one of France\u2019s most provocative writers.Even the title has been described as provocative, suggesting a translation of the word \u201cIslam\u201d, which in Arabic means submission to the will of Allah.The narrator of the plot, described as a typical Houellebecq antihero, is a 44-year-old literary professor, who occasionally frequents prostitutes and is attracted by women half his age.The novel suggests that despite record unpopularity, France\u2019s Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, clings on to power until 2022, but is eliminated in the first round of the presidential elections by a far-right Front National candidate and by Ben Abbes, representing the imaginary Muslim Fraternity party. With the support of the left, centre and the centre-right UMP party led by former president Nicolas Sarkozy, Abbes wins the election.Les Inrockuptibles magazine said the plot \u201ccompletely overturns society\u201d.Houellebecq, 56, whose real name is Michel Thomas, caused a row with his book Les Particules \u00e9l\u00e9mentaires (Atomised in English) in which he suggested the hippies of the May 1968 student movement had created the \u201cserial killers of the 1990s\u201d.In an 2001 interview with the review Lire he attacked Islam describing it as \u201cthe most stupid religion\u201d.\u201cI say to myself that the fact of believing in a single god is the behaviour of a cretin, I can\u2019t find another word. And the stupidest religion is, let\u2019s face it, Islam \u2026 the Bible, at least, is beautiful because the Jews have a huge literary talent \u2026 and for that they can be forgiven much.\u201dAfterwards, four Muslim organisations took legal action against him claiming he was \u201cinsulting a group of people because of their religious beliefs\u201d and was \u201ccomplicit in inciting racial hatred\u201d.Houellebecq told the court he did not despise Muslims, but held contempt for their religion adding that like Christianity and Judaism it was based on \u201ctexts of hate\u201d. The court dismissed the case against him.Soumission is Houellebecq\u2019s first novel since 2010 when he published La Carte et le Territoire (The Map and the Territory), which featured as its main character the \u201ccelebrated novelist Michel Houllebecq\u201d. The novel won the Prix Goncourt, France\u2019s top literary award.Houllebecq is the most translated, and hence internationally renowned, of all France\u2019s contemporary writers, but has been accused of racism, xenophobia and playing up to the media.Soumission will be his sixth novel.On Tuesday, France\u2019s culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, told French radio she would certainly read it, adding that Houellebecq had always been a \u201cprovocative novelist\u201d who had a \u201cstrange sense of humour.\u201dFrance24 television said the 300-page book risked \u201cinflaming passions\u201d.\u201cWe all know the writer\u2019s taste for provocation and soundbite declarations,\u201d it said.In the 2011 Lire interview, Houellebecq, who admitted he was \u201calways on the side of the Jews\u201d directed his bile not only at Islam but other \u201cmonotheisms\u201d for which he said he felt a \u201ctotal rejection\u201d. In an interview in August he told French journalists he found \u201cthe figure of Christ to be very unpleasant\u201d.Soumission is published by Flammarion on 7 January.", "tags": ["Michel Houellebecq", "Books", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Michel Houellebecq provokes France with story of Muslim president"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:34:07Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jars of foie gras are flying off supermarket shelves as they usually do in the festive season, but could it be that the French, the principal producers and consumers of the delicacy, are becoming squeamish about the controversial gourmet dish?According to an OpinionWay poll carried out for a French animal protection group, 47% of those questioned said they would support a ban on the force feeding of geese and ducks, the process by which foie gras, or fatty liver, is made.Known as gavage in French, the process involves pumping corn mash into the gullets of geese and ducks to enlarge their livers. Animal rights groups denounce it as gruesome and cruel and have called the dish \u201ctorture in a tin\u201d.California banned foie gras in a 2004 ruling that was upheld by the supreme court in October after appeals by restaurant owners and producers.In France, the L214 animal rights group has been campaigning against force-feeding and noted that the percentage of those opposed to the process was three points higher this year than in 2013.The poll released on Saturday showed that 29% said they would avoid buying the delicacy for ethical reasons. L214 said sales in France had declined by 5.6% over the past three years.One producer in Aiguillon, south-west France, played down the impact of the study:\u201cIf people don\u2019t like foie gras, they don\u2019t need to eat it. Just don\u2019t harass us, that\u2019s all\u201d.Hubert Garez of the foie gras producer La Ferme de Ramon, said eating foie gras was a pleasure. \u201cIt will remain a French dish. It\u2019s part of our originality,\u201d he said.Of those surveyed, 77% said they would prefer foie gras that was not made through force feeding,but Garez was sceptical, saying the French public research institute INRA had looked into alternatives \u201cand it would be a disaster\u201d. Animal rights organisations accuse the INRA of siding with the foie gras producers.Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the production of foie gras. An increasing number of chefs in Britain, including in the royal household of the Prince of Wales, have removed the dish from their menus.Earlier this month, the celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal dropped his French supplier of foie gras, after seeing a video which showed caged birds covered in feed and vomit being force-fed. Brigitte Gothi\u00e8re, a L214 spokeswoman, said: \u201cIn the light of such images, we are expecting the same reaction in France as in England.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Force-fed foie gras loses favour in France"},{"date": "2014-12-16T15:32:17Z", "country": "france", "content": "Award-winning French novelist Michel Houellebecq has sparked an outcry after it emerged that his new novel tells of France being run by a Muslim president.In 2022, with the help of the French Socialist party and the centrists, Mohammed Ben Abbes defeats the far-right Front National and takes up residence at the Elys\u00e9e Palace. The country is in turmoil.Soumission (Submission), which will be published in the new year, will confirm Houellebecq\u2019s reputation as one of France\u2019s most provocative writers.Even the title has been described as provocative, suggesting a translation of the word \u201cIslam\u201d, which in Arabic means submission to the will of Allah.The narrator of the plot, described as a typical Houellebecq antihero, is a 44-year-old literary professor, who occasionally frequents prostitutes and is attracted by women half his age.The novel suggests that despite record unpopularity, France\u2019s Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, clings on to power until 2022, but is eliminated in the first round of the presidential elections by a far-right Front National candidate and by Ben Abbes, representing the imaginary Muslim Fraternity party. With the support of the left, centre and the centre-right UMP party led by former president Nicolas Sarkozy, Abbes wins the election.Les Inrockuptibles magazine said the plot \u201ccompletely overturns society\u201d.Houellebecq, 56, whose real name is Michel Thomas, caused a row with his book Les Particules \u00e9l\u00e9mentaires (Atomised in English) in which he suggested the hippies of the May 1968 student movement had created the \u201cserial killers of the 1990s\u201d.In an 2001 interview with the review Lire he attacked Islam describing it as \u201cthe most stupid religion\u201d.\u201cI say to myself that the fact of believing in a single god is the behaviour of a cretin, I can\u2019t find another word. And the stupidest religion is, let\u2019s face it, Islam \u2026 the Bible, at least, is beautiful because the Jews have a huge literary talent \u2026 and for that they can be forgiven much.\u201dAfterwards, four Muslim organisations took legal action against him claiming he was \u201cinsulting a group of people because of their religious beliefs\u201d and was \u201ccomplicit in inciting racial hatred\u201d.Houellebecq told the court he did not despise Muslims, but held contempt for their religion adding that like Christianity and Judaism it was based on \u201ctexts of hate\u201d. The court dismissed the case against him.Soumission is Houellebecq\u2019s first novel since 2010 when he published La Carte et le Territoire (The Map and the Territory), which featured as its main character the \u201ccelebrated novelist Michel Houllebecq\u201d. The novel won the Prix Goncourt, France\u2019s top literary award.Houllebecq is the most translated, and hence internationally renowned, of all France\u2019s contemporary writers, but has been accused of racism, xenophobia and playing up to the media.Soumission will be his sixth novel.On Tuesday, France\u2019s culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, told French radio she would certainly read it, adding that Houellebecq had always been a \u201cprovocative novelist\u201d who had a \u201cstrange sense of humour.\u201dFrance24 television said the 300-page book risked \u201cinflaming passions\u201d.\u201cWe all know the writer\u2019s taste for provocation and soundbite declarations,\u201d it said.In the 2011 Lire interview, Houellebecq, who admitted he was \u201calways on the side of the Jews\u201d directed his bile not only at Islam but other \u201cmonotheisms\u201d for which he said he felt a \u201ctotal rejection\u201d. In an interview in August he told French journalists he found \u201cthe figure of Christ to be very unpleasant\u201d.Soumission is published by Flammarion on 7 January.", "tags": ["Michel Houellebecq", "Books", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Michel Houellebecq provokes France with story of Muslim president"},{"date": "2014-12-07T14:15:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "It has been called the nativity war. A French court\u2019s ban on a nativity scene in a town hall in order to preserve France\u2019s secular traditions has triggered a fierce backlash.\u201cWhy not ban Christmas and the public holidays that go with it?\u201d thundered Le Parisien on Sunday. Its headline read: \u201cSpare us a nativity war.\u201d According to the newspaper, 86% of more than 12,000 readers surveyed were in favour of keeping nativity scenes in public places.The court in Nantes ordered regional authorities in the western town of La Roche-sur-Yon to remove the crib from its building\u2019s entrance hall, after a complaint from the secular campaign group F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Nationale de la Libre Pens\u00e9e.The council is appealing against the decision with the support of national politicians including the Front National leader Marine Le Pen, who described it as \u201cstupid and blinkered secularism\u201d. The local senator, Bruno Retailleau, issued a statement saying: \u201cNext we\u2019ll be banning epiphany cakes at the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace.\u201dThe Nantes tribunal invoked a 1905 law that enshrines the separation of state and church. But other town halls are fighting similar decisions. In the southern town of B\u00e9ziers, the FN-supported mayor, Robert M\u00e9nard, is refusing to dismantle a crib in the town hall in defiance of a letter from the prefect ordering him to respect the constitutional and legislative principles guaranteeing secularism. Authorities in Melun, south-east of Paris, where a nativity scene has been set up in the town hall gardens for the past 10 years, are awaiting a court ruling.The controversy comes as the government is anxious not to be seen as discriminating against only Muslims, who have been banned from wearing burqas or niqabs in public. But critics say the government is leaning too far the other way to protect the country\u2019s secular traditions.Nadine Morano, an outspoken deputy with the centre-right UMP party, said \u201csecularism must not kill our country, our roots and our traditions.\u201dA sociologist, Jean Baub\u00e9rot, claimed the upholding of France\u2019s religious \u201cneutrality\u201d had become an increasingly aggressive and repressive secularism affecting Islam.\u201cThe anti-Islamic climate is causing a crackdown on other religions,\u201d he told Le Nouvel Observateur weekly magazine. But, he added, the law is the law, and \u201ccribs are a religious symbol that has no place in a public space.\u201dFrance is struggling to contain sectarian tensions. The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, speaking after the brutal robbery of a Jewish couple in a Paris suburb last week, announced on Sunday that the fight against racism and antisemitism would be a \u201cnational cause\u201d.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Europe", "World news", "Christmas", "Life and style", "Marine Le Pen"], "title": "Unholy row as nativity scene ban divides France"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:34:07Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jars of foie gras are flying off supermarket shelves as they usually do in the festive season, but could it be that the French, the principal producers and consumers of the delicacy, are becoming squeamish about the controversial gourmet dish?According to an OpinionWay poll carried out for a French animal protection group, 47% of those questioned said they would support a ban on the force feeding of geese and ducks, the process by which foie gras, or fatty liver, is made.Known as gavage in French, the process involves pumping corn mash into the gullets of geese and ducks to enlarge their livers. Animal rights groups denounce it as gruesome and cruel and have called the dish \u201ctorture in a tin\u201d.California banned foie gras in a 2004 ruling that was upheld by the supreme court in October after appeals by restaurant owners and producers.In France, the L214 animal rights group has been campaigning against force-feeding and noted that the percentage of those opposed to the process was three points higher this year than in 2013.The poll released on Saturday showed that 29% said they would avoid buying the delicacy for ethical reasons. L214 said sales in France had declined by 5.6% over the past three years.One producer in Aiguillon, south-west France, played down the impact of the study:\u201cIf people don\u2019t like foie gras, they don\u2019t need to eat it. Just don\u2019t harass us, that\u2019s all\u201d.Hubert Garez of the foie gras producer La Ferme de Ramon, said eating foie gras was a pleasure. \u201cIt will remain a French dish. It\u2019s part of our originality,\u201d he said.Of those surveyed, 77% said they would prefer foie gras that was not made through force feeding,but Garez was sceptical, saying the French public research institute INRA had looked into alternatives \u201cand it would be a disaster\u201d. Animal rights organisations accuse the INRA of siding with the foie gras producers.Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the production of foie gras. An increasing number of chefs in Britain, including in the royal household of the Prince of Wales, have removed the dish from their menus.Earlier this month, the celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal dropped his French supplier of foie gras, after seeing a video which showed caged birds covered in feed and vomit being force-fed. Brigitte Gothi\u00e8re, a L214 spokeswoman, said: \u201cIn the light of such images, we are expecting the same reaction in France as in England.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Force-fed foie gras loses favour in France"},{"date": "2014-12-16T15:32:17Z", "country": "france", "content": "Award-winning French novelist Michel Houellebecq has sparked an outcry after it emerged that his new novel tells of France being run by a Muslim president.In 2022, with the help of the French Socialist party and the centrists, Mohammed Ben Abbes defeats the far-right Front National and takes up residence at the Elys\u00e9e Palace. The country is in turmoil.Soumission (Submission), which will be published in the new year, will confirm Houellebecq\u2019s reputation as one of France\u2019s most provocative writers.Even the title has been described as provocative, suggesting a translation of the word \u201cIslam\u201d, which in Arabic means submission to the will of Allah.The narrator of the plot, described as a typical Houellebecq antihero, is a 44-year-old literary professor, who occasionally frequents prostitutes and is attracted by women half his age.The novel suggests that despite record unpopularity, France\u2019s Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, clings on to power until 2022, but is eliminated in the first round of the presidential elections by a far-right Front National candidate and by Ben Abbes, representing the imaginary Muslim Fraternity party. With the support of the left, centre and the centre-right UMP party led by former president Nicolas Sarkozy, Abbes wins the election.Les Inrockuptibles magazine said the plot \u201ccompletely overturns society\u201d.Houellebecq, 56, whose real name is Michel Thomas, caused a row with his book Les Particules \u00e9l\u00e9mentaires (Atomised in English) in which he suggested the hippies of the May 1968 student movement had created the \u201cserial killers of the 1990s\u201d.In an 2001 interview with the review Lire he attacked Islam describing it as \u201cthe most stupid religion\u201d.\u201cI say to myself that the fact of believing in a single god is the behaviour of a cretin, I can\u2019t find another word. And the stupidest religion is, let\u2019s face it, Islam \u2026 the Bible, at least, is beautiful because the Jews have a huge literary talent \u2026 and for that they can be forgiven much.\u201dAfterwards, four Muslim organisations took legal action against him claiming he was \u201cinsulting a group of people because of their religious beliefs\u201d and was \u201ccomplicit in inciting racial hatred\u201d.Houellebecq told the court he did not despise Muslims, but held contempt for their religion adding that like Christianity and Judaism it was based on \u201ctexts of hate\u201d. The court dismissed the case against him.Soumission is Houellebecq\u2019s first novel since 2010 when he published La Carte et le Territoire (The Map and the Territory), which featured as its main character the \u201ccelebrated novelist Michel Houllebecq\u201d. The novel won the Prix Goncourt, France\u2019s top literary award.Houllebecq is the most translated, and hence internationally renowned, of all France\u2019s contemporary writers, but has been accused of racism, xenophobia and playing up to the media.Soumission will be his sixth novel.On Tuesday, France\u2019s culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, told French radio she would certainly read it, adding that Houellebecq had always been a \u201cprovocative novelist\u201d who had a \u201cstrange sense of humour.\u201dFrance24 television said the 300-page book risked \u201cinflaming passions\u201d.\u201cWe all know the writer\u2019s taste for provocation and soundbite declarations,\u201d it said.In the 2011 Lire interview, Houellebecq, who admitted he was \u201calways on the side of the Jews\u201d directed his bile not only at Islam but other \u201cmonotheisms\u201d for which he said he felt a \u201ctotal rejection\u201d. In an interview in August he told French journalists he found \u201cthe figure of Christ to be very unpleasant\u201d.Soumission is published by Flammarion on 7 January.", "tags": ["Michel Houellebecq", "Books", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Michel Houellebecq provokes France with story of Muslim president"},{"date": "2014-12-07T14:15:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "It has been called the nativity war. A French court\u2019s ban on a nativity scene in a town hall in order to preserve France\u2019s secular traditions has triggered a fierce backlash.\u201cWhy not ban Christmas and the public holidays that go with it?\u201d thundered Le Parisien on Sunday. Its headline read: \u201cSpare us a nativity war.\u201d According to the newspaper, 86% of more than 12,000 readers surveyed were in favour of keeping nativity scenes in public places.The court in Nantes ordered regional authorities in the western town of La Roche-sur-Yon to remove the crib from its building\u2019s entrance hall, after a complaint from the secular campaign group F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Nationale de la Libre Pens\u00e9e.The council is appealing against the decision with the support of national politicians including the Front National leader Marine Le Pen, who described it as \u201cstupid and blinkered secularism\u201d. The local senator, Bruno Retailleau, issued a statement saying: \u201cNext we\u2019ll be banning epiphany cakes at the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace.\u201dThe Nantes tribunal invoked a 1905 law that enshrines the separation of state and church. But other town halls are fighting similar decisions. In the southern town of B\u00e9ziers, the FN-supported mayor, Robert M\u00e9nard, is refusing to dismantle a crib in the town hall in defiance of a letter from the prefect ordering him to respect the constitutional and legislative principles guaranteeing secularism. Authorities in Melun, south-east of Paris, where a nativity scene has been set up in the town hall gardens for the past 10 years, are awaiting a court ruling.The controversy comes as the government is anxious not to be seen as discriminating against only Muslims, who have been banned from wearing burqas or niqabs in public. But critics say the government is leaning too far the other way to protect the country\u2019s secular traditions.Nadine Morano, an outspoken deputy with the centre-right UMP party, said \u201csecularism must not kill our country, our roots and our traditions.\u201dA sociologist, Jean Baub\u00e9rot, claimed the upholding of France\u2019s religious \u201cneutrality\u201d had become an increasingly aggressive and repressive secularism affecting Islam.\u201cThe anti-Islamic climate is causing a crackdown on other religions,\u201d he told Le Nouvel Observateur weekly magazine. But, he added, the law is the law, and \u201ccribs are a religious symbol that has no place in a public space.\u201dFrance is struggling to contain sectarian tensions. The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, speaking after the brutal robbery of a Jewish couple in a Paris suburb last week, announced on Sunday that the fight against racism and antisemitism would be a \u201cnational cause\u201d.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Europe", "World news", "Christmas", "Life and style", "Marine Le Pen"], "title": "Unholy row as nativity scene ban divides France"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "france", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:34:07Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jars of foie gras are flying off supermarket shelves as they usually do in the festive season, but could it be that the French, the principal producers and consumers of the delicacy, are becoming squeamish about the controversial gourmet dish?According to an OpinionWay poll carried out for a French animal protection group, 47% of those questioned said they would support a ban on the force feeding of geese and ducks, the process by which foie gras, or fatty liver, is made.Known as gavage in French, the process involves pumping corn mash into the gullets of geese and ducks to enlarge their livers. Animal rights groups denounce it as gruesome and cruel and have called the dish \u201ctorture in a tin\u201d.California banned foie gras in a 2004 ruling that was upheld by the supreme court in October after appeals by restaurant owners and producers.In France, the L214 animal rights group has been campaigning against force-feeding and noted that the percentage of those opposed to the process was three points higher this year than in 2013.The poll released on Saturday showed that 29% said they would avoid buying the delicacy for ethical reasons. L214 said sales in France had declined by 5.6% over the past three years.One producer in Aiguillon, south-west France, played down the impact of the study:\u201cIf people don\u2019t like foie gras, they don\u2019t need to eat it. Just don\u2019t harass us, that\u2019s all\u201d.Hubert Garez of the foie gras producer La Ferme de Ramon, said eating foie gras was a pleasure. \u201cIt will remain a French dish. It\u2019s part of our originality,\u201d he said.Of those surveyed, 77% said they would prefer foie gras that was not made through force feeding,but Garez was sceptical, saying the French public research institute INRA had looked into alternatives \u201cand it would be a disaster\u201d. Animal rights organisations accuse the INRA of siding with the foie gras producers.Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the production of foie gras. An increasing number of chefs in Britain, including in the royal household of the Prince of Wales, have removed the dish from their menus.Earlier this month, the celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal dropped his French supplier of foie gras, after seeing a video which showed caged birds covered in feed and vomit being force-fed. Brigitte Gothi\u00e8re, a L214 spokeswoman, said: \u201cIn the light of such images, we are expecting the same reaction in France as in England.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Force-fed foie gras loses favour in France"},{"date": "2014-12-16T15:32:17Z", "country": "france", "content": "Award-winning French novelist Michel Houellebecq has sparked an outcry after it emerged that his new novel tells of France being run by a Muslim president.In 2022, with the help of the French Socialist party and the centrists, Mohammed Ben Abbes defeats the far-right Front National and takes up residence at the Elys\u00e9e Palace. The country is in turmoil.Soumission (Submission), which will be published in the new year, will confirm Houellebecq\u2019s reputation as one of France\u2019s most provocative writers.Even the title has been described as provocative, suggesting a translation of the word \u201cIslam\u201d, which in Arabic means submission to the will of Allah.The narrator of the plot, described as a typical Houellebecq antihero, is a 44-year-old literary professor, who occasionally frequents prostitutes and is attracted by women half his age.The novel suggests that despite record unpopularity, France\u2019s Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, clings on to power until 2022, but is eliminated in the first round of the presidential elections by a far-right Front National candidate and by Ben Abbes, representing the imaginary Muslim Fraternity party. With the support of the left, centre and the centre-right UMP party led by former president Nicolas Sarkozy, Abbes wins the election.Les Inrockuptibles magazine said the plot \u201ccompletely overturns society\u201d.Houellebecq, 56, whose real name is Michel Thomas, caused a row with his book Les Particules \u00e9l\u00e9mentaires (Atomised in English) in which he suggested the hippies of the May 1968 student movement had created the \u201cserial killers of the 1990s\u201d.In an 2001 interview with the review Lire he attacked Islam describing it as \u201cthe most stupid religion\u201d.\u201cI say to myself that the fact of believing in a single god is the behaviour of a cretin, I can\u2019t find another word. And the stupidest religion is, let\u2019s face it, Islam \u2026 the Bible, at least, is beautiful because the Jews have a huge literary talent \u2026 and for that they can be forgiven much.\u201dAfterwards, four Muslim organisations took legal action against him claiming he was \u201cinsulting a group of people because of their religious beliefs\u201d and was \u201ccomplicit in inciting racial hatred\u201d.Houellebecq told the court he did not despise Muslims, but held contempt for their religion adding that like Christianity and Judaism it was based on \u201ctexts of hate\u201d. The court dismissed the case against him.Soumission is Houellebecq\u2019s first novel since 2010 when he published La Carte et le Territoire (The Map and the Territory), which featured as its main character the \u201ccelebrated novelist Michel Houllebecq\u201d. The novel won the Prix Goncourt, France\u2019s top literary award.Houllebecq is the most translated, and hence internationally renowned, of all France\u2019s contemporary writers, but has been accused of racism, xenophobia and playing up to the media.Soumission will be his sixth novel.On Tuesday, France\u2019s culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, told French radio she would certainly read it, adding that Houellebecq had always been a \u201cprovocative novelist\u201d who had a \u201cstrange sense of humour.\u201dFrance24 television said the 300-page book risked \u201cinflaming passions\u201d.\u201cWe all know the writer\u2019s taste for provocation and soundbite declarations,\u201d it said.In the 2011 Lire interview, Houellebecq, who admitted he was \u201calways on the side of the Jews\u201d directed his bile not only at Islam but other \u201cmonotheisms\u201d for which he said he felt a \u201ctotal rejection\u201d. In an interview in August he told French journalists he found \u201cthe figure of Christ to be very unpleasant\u201d.Soumission is published by Flammarion on 7 January.", "tags": ["Michel Houellebecq", "Books", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Michel Houellebecq provokes France with story of Muslim president"},{"date": "2014-12-07T14:15:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "It has been called the nativity war. A French court\u2019s ban on a nativity scene in a town hall in order to preserve France\u2019s secular traditions has triggered a fierce backlash.\u201cWhy not ban Christmas and the public holidays that go with it?\u201d thundered Le Parisien on Sunday. Its headline read: \u201cSpare us a nativity war.\u201d According to the newspaper, 86% of more than 12,000 readers surveyed were in favour of keeping nativity scenes in public places.The court in Nantes ordered regional authorities in the western town of La Roche-sur-Yon to remove the crib from its building\u2019s entrance hall, after a complaint from the secular campaign group F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Nationale de la Libre Pens\u00e9e.The council is appealing against the decision with the support of national politicians including the Front National leader Marine Le Pen, who described it as \u201cstupid and blinkered secularism\u201d. The local senator, Bruno Retailleau, issued a statement saying: \u201cNext we\u2019ll be banning epiphany cakes at the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace.\u201dThe Nantes tribunal invoked a 1905 law that enshrines the separation of state and church. But other town halls are fighting similar decisions. In the southern town of B\u00e9ziers, the FN-supported mayor, Robert M\u00e9nard, is refusing to dismantle a crib in the town hall in defiance of a letter from the prefect ordering him to respect the constitutional and legislative principles guaranteeing secularism. Authorities in Melun, south-east of Paris, where a nativity scene has been set up in the town hall gardens for the past 10 years, are awaiting a court ruling.The controversy comes as the government is anxious not to be seen as discriminating against only Muslims, who have been banned from wearing burqas or niqabs in public. But critics say the government is leaning too far the other way to protect the country\u2019s secular traditions.Nadine Morano, an outspoken deputy with the centre-right UMP party, said \u201csecularism must not kill our country, our roots and our traditions.\u201dA sociologist, Jean Baub\u00e9rot, claimed the upholding of France\u2019s religious \u201cneutrality\u201d had become an increasingly aggressive and repressive secularism affecting Islam.\u201cThe anti-Islamic climate is causing a crackdown on other religions,\u201d he told Le Nouvel Observateur weekly magazine. But, he added, the law is the law, and \u201ccribs are a religious symbol that has no place in a public space.\u201dFrance is struggling to contain sectarian tensions. The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, speaking after the brutal robbery of a Jewish couple in a Paris suburb last week, announced on Sunday that the fight against racism and antisemitism would be a \u201cnational cause\u201d.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Europe", "World news", "Christmas", "Life and style", "Marine Le Pen"], "title": "Unholy row as nativity scene ban divides France"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "france", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-20T15:13:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "Foreign Islamic preachers will be obliged to take an officially recognised diploma before being allowed to work in France, under measures being considered by the French government.The new rules, if adopted, would affect more than 70% of imams and Muslim community leaders in France and are aimed at combating the spread of Islamist extremism and the radicalisation of young people.The report comes as France investigates two men, Micha\u00ebl Dos Santos and Maxime Hauchard, believed to be involved in the beheadings of 18 Syrian soldiers and the US aid worker Peter Kassig in Syria.An unpublished report, obtained by the Guardian, suggests officials should introduce measures to control who influences France\u2019s Muslim population of about 5.5 million people. Formal and \u201cuniversal\u201d training for Muslim religious leaders, it says, will discourage extremism, lead to greater integration and put imams on a level with clergy from other main religions.However, Marco Ventura, a professor of law and religion at the University of Leuven in Belgium, who has seen the report, said it raised the controversial question of government meddling in religion. \u201cThis would be state intervention that reached to the heart of the Muslim community and affected its internal organisation,\u201d he said.\u201cIn many ways, though, it represents a return to 19th-century ideas of involving the state in religious training with the aim of modernisation. In those days, the targets were Jews and Christians. The document itself makes the point that there are precedents for what is being suggested.\u201dFrench officials estimate there are 1,800 imams working in the country, only 25-30% of whom hold French nationality. Of the 1,800, only 800 at most are paid part- or full-time. Almost all of those receiving a salary are from Turkey, Algeria and Morocco and have been trained in their countries.The report, by Prof Francis Messner, an Islamic studies expert and director of research at France\u2019s National Centre for Scientific Research, suggests the introduction of more degree courses at higher education colleges. The course syllabus should include secular civic studies, humanities, science and other religions, it says. Diplomas in Islamic theology from private colleges would be officially recognised only if they included these subjects.Messner said existing theological instruction for priests, pastors and rabbis had set a precedent. This teaching is intended to \u201cavoid the creation of counter-societies preaching the supremacy of divine law over human law\u00a0\u2026 [and] encourage the education of a tolerant, enlightened clergy\u00a0\u2026 [that is] tolerant of other religious traditions or other forms of thought\u201d.The report recognises the difficulty of imposing training on Islamic preachers and giving them an official status because of the lack of a structured clergy in Islam, and the \u201cmultitude of associations or federations that are sometimes under the control of foreign states\u201d.\u201cThe absence of a status defined by the religion itself, has produced the multiplying of self-proclaimed religious leaders.\u201dThe report adds: The report recognises that since 2008, France has created a \u201cwell-structured civic- and civil-training network for religious leaders, particularly Muslim religious leaders\u201d, but says there must be more universities offering religious diplomas as well as centres of excellence in Islamic humanities and social sciences.\u201cThe obtaining of a visa for foreign religious leaders wanting to work in France could be made conditional on their agreeing to study for a university diploma and, consequently, proving their good command of French,\u201d the report suggests. \u201cThe recruitment of chaplains in the army, hospitals and prison establishments, who are public agents paid by the authorities, should be reserved for those candidates holding an university degree in civil and civic studies.\u201dVentura said the report would trigger a debate on whether a neutral state should go so far. \u201cBut it is not clear whether the Muslims themselves will be opposed to these proposals. In Morocco and Turkey, for example, they are used to the idea of the state intervening actively in the affairs of the mosque.\u201cThe proposals could also have implications for Christians \u2013 churches who bring in priests and vicars from abroad would presumably be subject to the same rules.\u201dIn a letter commissioning the report last year, French interior and education ministers wrote: \u201cIt is not intended in any way to enter into the theological content of the programmes which, in our republic, is exclusively the responsibility of the religious authorities.\u201dThe report comes as France investigates two Frenchmen believed to be involved in the horrific beheadings of 18 Syrian soldiers and the US aid worker Peter Kassig. Maxime Hauchard, 22,from Normandy, and Micha\u00ebl Dos Santos, 22, from Champigny-sur-Marne, were named by the French interior ministry after being identified in the Islamic State (Isis) propaganda video of the murders released on Sunday. Intelligence officers, however, believe the two jihadis were radicalised through the internet.An Isis film released this week \u2013 part of an intensifying propaganda to recruit foreign fighters \u2013 showed three French nationals burning their passports and calling on Muslims in France to join the group in Syria and Iraq or carry out attacks at home.The interior ministry released figures this week stating that 1,132 French citizens were implicated in Isis, either as would-be fighters or suppliers of false papers. There are believed to be about 376 French Isis fighters, while dozens more are believed to be on their way or to have returned.The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, said 138 suspected Islamists in France were under investigation or in prison and had been neutralised.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "Islamic State", "Education"], "title": "Muslim preachers in France may be forced to take diploma"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:34:07Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jars of foie gras are flying off supermarket shelves as they usually do in the festive season, but could it be that the French, the principal producers and consumers of the delicacy, are becoming squeamish about the controversial gourmet dish?According to an OpinionWay poll carried out for a French animal protection group, 47% of those questioned said they would support a ban on the force feeding of geese and ducks, the process by which foie gras, or fatty liver, is made.Known as gavage in French, the process involves pumping corn mash into the gullets of geese and ducks to enlarge their livers. Animal rights groups denounce it as gruesome and cruel and have called the dish \u201ctorture in a tin\u201d.California banned foie gras in a 2004 ruling that was upheld by the supreme court in October after appeals by restaurant owners and producers.In France, the L214 animal rights group has been campaigning against force-feeding and noted that the percentage of those opposed to the process was three points higher this year than in 2013.The poll released on Saturday showed that 29% said they would avoid buying the delicacy for ethical reasons. L214 said sales in France had declined by 5.6% over the past three years.One producer in Aiguillon, south-west France, played down the impact of the study:\u201cIf people don\u2019t like foie gras, they don\u2019t need to eat it. Just don\u2019t harass us, that\u2019s all\u201d.Hubert Garez of the foie gras producer La Ferme de Ramon, said eating foie gras was a pleasure. \u201cIt will remain a French dish. It\u2019s part of our originality,\u201d he said.Of those surveyed, 77% said they would prefer foie gras that was not made through force feeding,but Garez was sceptical, saying the French public research institute INRA had looked into alternatives \u201cand it would be a disaster\u201d. Animal rights organisations accuse the INRA of siding with the foie gras producers.Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the production of foie gras. An increasing number of chefs in Britain, including in the royal household of the Prince of Wales, have removed the dish from their menus.Earlier this month, the celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal dropped his French supplier of foie gras, after seeing a video which showed caged birds covered in feed and vomit being force-fed. Brigitte Gothi\u00e8re, a L214 spokeswoman, said: \u201cIn the light of such images, we are expecting the same reaction in France as in England.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Force-fed foie gras loses favour in France"},{"date": "2014-12-16T15:32:17Z", "country": "france", "content": "Award-winning French novelist Michel Houellebecq has sparked an outcry after it emerged that his new novel tells of France being run by a Muslim president.In 2022, with the help of the French Socialist party and the centrists, Mohammed Ben Abbes defeats the far-right Front National and takes up residence at the Elys\u00e9e Palace. The country is in turmoil.Soumission (Submission), which will be published in the new year, will confirm Houellebecq\u2019s reputation as one of France\u2019s most provocative writers.Even the title has been described as provocative, suggesting a translation of the word \u201cIslam\u201d, which in Arabic means submission to the will of Allah.The narrator of the plot, described as a typical Houellebecq antihero, is a 44-year-old literary professor, who occasionally frequents prostitutes and is attracted by women half his age.The novel suggests that despite record unpopularity, France\u2019s Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, clings on to power until 2022, but is eliminated in the first round of the presidential elections by a far-right Front National candidate and by Ben Abbes, representing the imaginary Muslim Fraternity party. With the support of the left, centre and the centre-right UMP party led by former president Nicolas Sarkozy, Abbes wins the election.Les Inrockuptibles magazine said the plot \u201ccompletely overturns society\u201d.Houellebecq, 56, whose real name is Michel Thomas, caused a row with his book Les Particules \u00e9l\u00e9mentaires (Atomised in English) in which he suggested the hippies of the May 1968 student movement had created the \u201cserial killers of the 1990s\u201d.In an 2001 interview with the review Lire he attacked Islam describing it as \u201cthe most stupid religion\u201d.\u201cI say to myself that the fact of believing in a single god is the behaviour of a cretin, I can\u2019t find another word. And the stupidest religion is, let\u2019s face it, Islam \u2026 the Bible, at least, is beautiful because the Jews have a huge literary talent \u2026 and for that they can be forgiven much.\u201dAfterwards, four Muslim organisations took legal action against him claiming he was \u201cinsulting a group of people because of their religious beliefs\u201d and was \u201ccomplicit in inciting racial hatred\u201d.Houellebecq told the court he did not despise Muslims, but held contempt for their religion adding that like Christianity and Judaism it was based on \u201ctexts of hate\u201d. The court dismissed the case against him.Soumission is Houellebecq\u2019s first novel since 2010 when he published La Carte et le Territoire (The Map and the Territory), which featured as its main character the \u201ccelebrated novelist Michel Houllebecq\u201d. The novel won the Prix Goncourt, France\u2019s top literary award.Houllebecq is the most translated, and hence internationally renowned, of all France\u2019s contemporary writers, but has been accused of racism, xenophobia and playing up to the media.Soumission will be his sixth novel.On Tuesday, France\u2019s culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, told French radio she would certainly read it, adding that Houellebecq had always been a \u201cprovocative novelist\u201d who had a \u201cstrange sense of humour.\u201dFrance24 television said the 300-page book risked \u201cinflaming passions\u201d.\u201cWe all know the writer\u2019s taste for provocation and soundbite declarations,\u201d it said.In the 2011 Lire interview, Houellebecq, who admitted he was \u201calways on the side of the Jews\u201d directed his bile not only at Islam but other \u201cmonotheisms\u201d for which he said he felt a \u201ctotal rejection\u201d. In an interview in August he told French journalists he found \u201cthe figure of Christ to be very unpleasant\u201d.Soumission is published by Flammarion on 7 January.", "tags": ["Michel Houellebecq", "Books", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Michel Houellebecq provokes France with story of Muslim president"},{"date": "2014-12-07T14:15:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "It has been called the nativity war. A French court\u2019s ban on a nativity scene in a town hall in order to preserve France\u2019s secular traditions has triggered a fierce backlash.\u201cWhy not ban Christmas and the public holidays that go with it?\u201d thundered Le Parisien on Sunday. Its headline read: \u201cSpare us a nativity war.\u201d According to the newspaper, 86% of more than 12,000 readers surveyed were in favour of keeping nativity scenes in public places.The court in Nantes ordered regional authorities in the western town of La Roche-sur-Yon to remove the crib from its building\u2019s entrance hall, after a complaint from the secular campaign group F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Nationale de la Libre Pens\u00e9e.The council is appealing against the decision with the support of national politicians including the Front National leader Marine Le Pen, who described it as \u201cstupid and blinkered secularism\u201d. The local senator, Bruno Retailleau, issued a statement saying: \u201cNext we\u2019ll be banning epiphany cakes at the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace.\u201dThe Nantes tribunal invoked a 1905 law that enshrines the separation of state and church. But other town halls are fighting similar decisions. In the southern town of B\u00e9ziers, the FN-supported mayor, Robert M\u00e9nard, is refusing to dismantle a crib in the town hall in defiance of a letter from the prefect ordering him to respect the constitutional and legislative principles guaranteeing secularism. Authorities in Melun, south-east of Paris, where a nativity scene has been set up in the town hall gardens for the past 10 years, are awaiting a court ruling.The controversy comes as the government is anxious not to be seen as discriminating against only Muslims, who have been banned from wearing burqas or niqabs in public. But critics say the government is leaning too far the other way to protect the country\u2019s secular traditions.Nadine Morano, an outspoken deputy with the centre-right UMP party, said \u201csecularism must not kill our country, our roots and our traditions.\u201dA sociologist, Jean Baub\u00e9rot, claimed the upholding of France\u2019s religious \u201cneutrality\u201d had become an increasingly aggressive and repressive secularism affecting Islam.\u201cThe anti-Islamic climate is causing a crackdown on other religions,\u201d he told Le Nouvel Observateur weekly magazine. But, he added, the law is the law, and \u201ccribs are a religious symbol that has no place in a public space.\u201dFrance is struggling to contain sectarian tensions. The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, speaking after the brutal robbery of a Jewish couple in a Paris suburb last week, announced on Sunday that the fight against racism and antisemitism would be a \u201cnational cause\u201d.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Europe", "World news", "Christmas", "Life and style", "Marine Le Pen"], "title": "Unholy row as nativity scene ban divides France"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "france", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-20T15:13:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "Foreign Islamic preachers will be obliged to take an officially recognised diploma before being allowed to work in France, under measures being considered by the French government.The new rules, if adopted, would affect more than 70% of imams and Muslim community leaders in France and are aimed at combating the spread of Islamist extremism and the radicalisation of young people.The report comes as France investigates two men, Micha\u00ebl Dos Santos and Maxime Hauchard, believed to be involved in the beheadings of 18 Syrian soldiers and the US aid worker Peter Kassig in Syria.An unpublished report, obtained by the Guardian, suggests officials should introduce measures to control who influences France\u2019s Muslim population of about 5.5 million people. Formal and \u201cuniversal\u201d training for Muslim religious leaders, it says, will discourage extremism, lead to greater integration and put imams on a level with clergy from other main religions.However, Marco Ventura, a professor of law and religion at the University of Leuven in Belgium, who has seen the report, said it raised the controversial question of government meddling in religion. \u201cThis would be state intervention that reached to the heart of the Muslim community and affected its internal organisation,\u201d he said.\u201cIn many ways, though, it represents a return to 19th-century ideas of involving the state in religious training with the aim of modernisation. In those days, the targets were Jews and Christians. The document itself makes the point that there are precedents for what is being suggested.\u201dFrench officials estimate there are 1,800 imams working in the country, only 25-30% of whom hold French nationality. Of the 1,800, only 800 at most are paid part- or full-time. Almost all of those receiving a salary are from Turkey, Algeria and Morocco and have been trained in their countries.The report, by Prof Francis Messner, an Islamic studies expert and director of research at France\u2019s National Centre for Scientific Research, suggests the introduction of more degree courses at higher education colleges. The course syllabus should include secular civic studies, humanities, science and other religions, it says. Diplomas in Islamic theology from private colleges would be officially recognised only if they included these subjects.Messner said existing theological instruction for priests, pastors and rabbis had set a precedent. This teaching is intended to \u201cavoid the creation of counter-societies preaching the supremacy of divine law over human law\u00a0\u2026 [and] encourage the education of a tolerant, enlightened clergy\u00a0\u2026 [that is] tolerant of other religious traditions or other forms of thought\u201d.The report recognises the difficulty of imposing training on Islamic preachers and giving them an official status because of the lack of a structured clergy in Islam, and the \u201cmultitude of associations or federations that are sometimes under the control of foreign states\u201d.\u201cThe absence of a status defined by the religion itself, has produced the multiplying of self-proclaimed religious leaders.\u201dThe report adds: The report recognises that since 2008, France has created a \u201cwell-structured civic- and civil-training network for religious leaders, particularly Muslim religious leaders\u201d, but says there must be more universities offering religious diplomas as well as centres of excellence in Islamic humanities and social sciences.\u201cThe obtaining of a visa for foreign religious leaders wanting to work in France could be made conditional on their agreeing to study for a university diploma and, consequently, proving their good command of French,\u201d the report suggests. \u201cThe recruitment of chaplains in the army, hospitals and prison establishments, who are public agents paid by the authorities, should be reserved for those candidates holding an university degree in civil and civic studies.\u201dVentura said the report would trigger a debate on whether a neutral state should go so far. \u201cBut it is not clear whether the Muslims themselves will be opposed to these proposals. In Morocco and Turkey, for example, they are used to the idea of the state intervening actively in the affairs of the mosque.\u201cThe proposals could also have implications for Christians \u2013 churches who bring in priests and vicars from abroad would presumably be subject to the same rules.\u201dIn a letter commissioning the report last year, French interior and education ministers wrote: \u201cIt is not intended in any way to enter into the theological content of the programmes which, in our republic, is exclusively the responsibility of the religious authorities.\u201dThe report comes as France investigates two Frenchmen believed to be involved in the horrific beheadings of 18 Syrian soldiers and the US aid worker Peter Kassig. Maxime Hauchard, 22,from Normandy, and Micha\u00ebl Dos Santos, 22, from Champigny-sur-Marne, were named by the French interior ministry after being identified in the Islamic State (Isis) propaganda video of the murders released on Sunday. Intelligence officers, however, believe the two jihadis were radicalised through the internet.An Isis film released this week \u2013 part of an intensifying propaganda to recruit foreign fighters \u2013 showed three French nationals burning their passports and calling on Muslims in France to join the group in Syria and Iraq or carry out attacks at home.The interior ministry released figures this week stating that 1,132 French citizens were implicated in Isis, either as would-be fighters or suppliers of false papers. There are believed to be about 376 French Isis fighters, while dozens more are believed to be on their way or to have returned.The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, said 138 suspected Islamists in France were under investigation or in prison and had been neutralised.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "Islamic State", "Education"], "title": "Muslim preachers in France may be forced to take diploma"},{"date": "2014-11-09T10:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you stop at Porte Maillot, on the inner ring road of Paris, late on a Friday afternoon you will see dozens of cars pausing to pick up complete strangers and their luggage, then setting off to some weekend destination.The huge roundabout, one of the capital\u2019s main hubs for co-voiturage, or carpooling, is a good indication of how people\u2019s attitude to cars has changed. The car is still an essential form of private transport, but its social value now finds an outlet in collective use. Carpooling, which is more economical, flexible and sociable than travelling alone, is one of the more visible aspects of a profound change also reflected in the growth of car-sharing (short-term rental) and peer-to-peer sharing.Car-sharing services such as BlaBlaCar (10 million members in 13 European countries) or Autolib\u2019 (170,000 subscribers in Paris) have become popular for a growing number of people, particularly the young and urban. The trend raises many questions about the shifting status and dented image of an object that made such a deep mark on the 20th century.Leading brands acknowledge the crisis in the perception of motor vehicles in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in the United States. Fortunately for them, consumers in Russia, China, India and Brazil, among others, see things differently.In western Europe there is plenty to suggest that interest in cars is cooling. Predictably the economic crisis has had an impact, but the experts report that the market overreacted to the downturn. \u201cCar sales in the European Union, between 2007 and 2013, fell by almost 25%. Though the economic climate is expected to improve, we do not expect to see a return to pre-crisis volumes,\u201d says Michel Costes, head of specialist consultants Inovev. Substantial investment in public transport has also contributed to a gradual decline in household spending on new cars.One revealing sign is that, despite the price of cars having dropped in relation to average wages, most consumers think that replacing their vehicle is \u201cbeyond their means\u201d. \u201cThe French have opted to spend more on other items such as homes and their upkeep, entertainment and information technology. Car ownership currently accounts for about 14% of average spending and is seen by a growing number of households as a burden,\u201d says R\u00e9mi Cornubert, a specialist on automobile trends at analysts Oliver Wyman.\u201cThe French love their cars,\u201d President Pompidou asserted in the early 1970s, but these days few people would endorse such a claim. \u201cThe utilitarian component of the purchase is uppermost,\u201d says Guillaume Paoli, head of dealers Aramis Auto. \u201cCosts carry more weight with consumers than image or prestige. Nor does it make much difference if it\u2019s new or second-hand. Even switching from one make to another is no longer an issue. There is every indication the car is no longer an emblematic object.\u201dThe cause of greatest concern for manufacturers is the ageing customer base and the generation gap it reveals. In France the average age at which people buy their first new car is close to 55. Meanwhile the under-30s account for less than 10% of customers. A typical carpooler is 33. These figures not only indicate the difference in buying power between generations, but reflect the dwindling interest in cars, a consumer good which the French \u2013 to an even greater extent than the German, Spanish, Italian or British neighbours \u2013 tend to view as suspect.In a country with a long record of higher-than-average road casualties there are many reasons for such misgivings, motor vehicles being associated with pollution, congested cities and fatalities. The economic crisis seems to have exacerbated this malaise. The French still shun those who make too much show of their wealth and flashy cars may well be seen as ostentatious and somehow arrogant.\u201cWith [French philosophers] Baudrillard and Bourdieu, France started questioning the consumer society some time ago,\u201d says sociologist Eric Fouquier, head of the market research firm Th\u00e9ma. \u201cIn the 2000s this critical sensibility really began to impact on purchasing patterns, accentuating the possible misgivings prompted by cars, easily perceived as a clumsy assertion of social status.\u201dCar culture in France is dogged by this sensitivity to social inequality. Manufacturers have made their mark with popular, but non-conformist models that place the emphasis on practical qualities \u2013 the Citro\u00ebn 2CV and Renault 4, 16 and Espace. The only exception to this tradition was the high-tech, yet middle-class Citro\u00ebn DS. Rooted in a pragmatic, democratic approach to motor vehicles, this tradition has resulted in considerable variety but has done little to fetishise cars. In the land of luxury goods and high fashion, cars have been set apart. French car manufacturers ceased producing top-of-the-range models and sports cars as long ago as the 1950s. Compared with elsewhere in Europe, rich French people buy comparatively few Mercedes, Audis, BMWs or Jaguars \u2013 and not just to pay less tax.However 86% of all French households still own a car. \u201cThere is a widening gap between those who are losing interest in cars, and those still drawn to objects they see as offering scope for differentiation. What is more, this split transcends other social distinctions,\u201d Cornubert asserts.But not all customers are \u201cestranged drivers\u201d; some are still prepared to pay more for extra features to personalise their car. In some cases this means they have to join carpool schemes, driving their own vehicle to cover the cost of the loan or just its upkeep. The industry will, nevertheless, have to come to terms with consumers who are solely concerned with a vehicle\u2019s functional value.\u201cJust as in many other sectors, the car industry is shifting from manufacturing a product to delivering a service,\u201d Costes explains. By entering into partnerships with car-share operators, manufacturers such as Renault, PSA, Daimler and BMW have already committed themselves to this. But the industry is also focusing much of its attention on the arrival, circa 2018-20, of driverless cars.The large manufacturers see this technological leap as a way of updating the image of the car, particularly with the younger generation. But it may fuel a wholesale shift to car-sharing. After all, what is the point in owning a car you don\u2019t even drive?This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Household bills", "Motoring", "Motoring", "Travel and transport", "Automotive industry", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "France falls out of love with the car"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:34:07Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jars of foie gras are flying off supermarket shelves as they usually do in the festive season, but could it be that the French, the principal producers and consumers of the delicacy, are becoming squeamish about the controversial gourmet dish?According to an OpinionWay poll carried out for a French animal protection group, 47% of those questioned said they would support a ban on the force feeding of geese and ducks, the process by which foie gras, or fatty liver, is made.Known as gavage in French, the process involves pumping corn mash into the gullets of geese and ducks to enlarge their livers. Animal rights groups denounce it as gruesome and cruel and have called the dish \u201ctorture in a tin\u201d.California banned foie gras in a 2004 ruling that was upheld by the supreme court in October after appeals by restaurant owners and producers.In France, the L214 animal rights group has been campaigning against force-feeding and noted that the percentage of those opposed to the process was three points higher this year than in 2013.The poll released on Saturday showed that 29% said they would avoid buying the delicacy for ethical reasons. L214 said sales in France had declined by 5.6% over the past three years.One producer in Aiguillon, south-west France, played down the impact of the study:\u201cIf people don\u2019t like foie gras, they don\u2019t need to eat it. Just don\u2019t harass us, that\u2019s all\u201d.Hubert Garez of the foie gras producer La Ferme de Ramon, said eating foie gras was a pleasure. \u201cIt will remain a French dish. It\u2019s part of our originality,\u201d he said.Of those surveyed, 77% said they would prefer foie gras that was not made through force feeding,but Garez was sceptical, saying the French public research institute INRA had looked into alternatives \u201cand it would be a disaster\u201d. Animal rights organisations accuse the INRA of siding with the foie gras producers.Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the production of foie gras. An increasing number of chefs in Britain, including in the royal household of the Prince of Wales, have removed the dish from their menus.Earlier this month, the celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal dropped his French supplier of foie gras, after seeing a video which showed caged birds covered in feed and vomit being force-fed. Brigitte Gothi\u00e8re, a L214 spokeswoman, said: \u201cIn the light of such images, we are expecting the same reaction in France as in England.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Force-fed foie gras loses favour in France"},{"date": "2014-12-16T15:32:17Z", "country": "france", "content": "Award-winning French novelist Michel Houellebecq has sparked an outcry after it emerged that his new novel tells of France being run by a Muslim president.In 2022, with the help of the French Socialist party and the centrists, Mohammed Ben Abbes defeats the far-right Front National and takes up residence at the Elys\u00e9e Palace. The country is in turmoil.Soumission (Submission), which will be published in the new year, will confirm Houellebecq\u2019s reputation as one of France\u2019s most provocative writers.Even the title has been described as provocative, suggesting a translation of the word \u201cIslam\u201d, which in Arabic means submission to the will of Allah.The narrator of the plot, described as a typical Houellebecq antihero, is a 44-year-old literary professor, who occasionally frequents prostitutes and is attracted by women half his age.The novel suggests that despite record unpopularity, France\u2019s Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, clings on to power until 2022, but is eliminated in the first round of the presidential elections by a far-right Front National candidate and by Ben Abbes, representing the imaginary Muslim Fraternity party. With the support of the left, centre and the centre-right UMP party led by former president Nicolas Sarkozy, Abbes wins the election.Les Inrockuptibles magazine said the plot \u201ccompletely overturns society\u201d.Houellebecq, 56, whose real name is Michel Thomas, caused a row with his book Les Particules \u00e9l\u00e9mentaires (Atomised in English) in which he suggested the hippies of the May 1968 student movement had created the \u201cserial killers of the 1990s\u201d.In an 2001 interview with the review Lire he attacked Islam describing it as \u201cthe most stupid religion\u201d.\u201cI say to myself that the fact of believing in a single god is the behaviour of a cretin, I can\u2019t find another word. And the stupidest religion is, let\u2019s face it, Islam \u2026 the Bible, at least, is beautiful because the Jews have a huge literary talent \u2026 and for that they can be forgiven much.\u201dAfterwards, four Muslim organisations took legal action against him claiming he was \u201cinsulting a group of people because of their religious beliefs\u201d and was \u201ccomplicit in inciting racial hatred\u201d.Houellebecq told the court he did not despise Muslims, but held contempt for their religion adding that like Christianity and Judaism it was based on \u201ctexts of hate\u201d. The court dismissed the case against him.Soumission is Houellebecq\u2019s first novel since 2010 when he published La Carte et le Territoire (The Map and the Territory), which featured as its main character the \u201ccelebrated novelist Michel Houllebecq\u201d. The novel won the Prix Goncourt, France\u2019s top literary award.Houllebecq is the most translated, and hence internationally renowned, of all France\u2019s contemporary writers, but has been accused of racism, xenophobia and playing up to the media.Soumission will be his sixth novel.On Tuesday, France\u2019s culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, told French radio she would certainly read it, adding that Houellebecq had always been a \u201cprovocative novelist\u201d who had a \u201cstrange sense of humour.\u201dFrance24 television said the 300-page book risked \u201cinflaming passions\u201d.\u201cWe all know the writer\u2019s taste for provocation and soundbite declarations,\u201d it said.In the 2011 Lire interview, Houellebecq, who admitted he was \u201calways on the side of the Jews\u201d directed his bile not only at Islam but other \u201cmonotheisms\u201d for which he said he felt a \u201ctotal rejection\u201d. In an interview in August he told French journalists he found \u201cthe figure of Christ to be very unpleasant\u201d.Soumission is published by Flammarion on 7 January.", "tags": ["Michel Houellebecq", "Books", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Michel Houellebecq provokes France with story of Muslim president"},{"date": "2014-12-07T14:15:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "It has been called the nativity war. A French court\u2019s ban on a nativity scene in a town hall in order to preserve France\u2019s secular traditions has triggered a fierce backlash.\u201cWhy not ban Christmas and the public holidays that go with it?\u201d thundered Le Parisien on Sunday. Its headline read: \u201cSpare us a nativity war.\u201d According to the newspaper, 86% of more than 12,000 readers surveyed were in favour of keeping nativity scenes in public places.The court in Nantes ordered regional authorities in the western town of La Roche-sur-Yon to remove the crib from its building\u2019s entrance hall, after a complaint from the secular campaign group F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Nationale de la Libre Pens\u00e9e.The council is appealing against the decision with the support of national politicians including the Front National leader Marine Le Pen, who described it as \u201cstupid and blinkered secularism\u201d. The local senator, Bruno Retailleau, issued a statement saying: \u201cNext we\u2019ll be banning epiphany cakes at the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace.\u201dThe Nantes tribunal invoked a 1905 law that enshrines the separation of state and church. But other town halls are fighting similar decisions. In the southern town of B\u00e9ziers, the FN-supported mayor, Robert M\u00e9nard, is refusing to dismantle a crib in the town hall in defiance of a letter from the prefect ordering him to respect the constitutional and legislative principles guaranteeing secularism. Authorities in Melun, south-east of Paris, where a nativity scene has been set up in the town hall gardens for the past 10 years, are awaiting a court ruling.The controversy comes as the government is anxious not to be seen as discriminating against only Muslims, who have been banned from wearing burqas or niqabs in public. But critics say the government is leaning too far the other way to protect the country\u2019s secular traditions.Nadine Morano, an outspoken deputy with the centre-right UMP party, said \u201csecularism must not kill our country, our roots and our traditions.\u201dA sociologist, Jean Baub\u00e9rot, claimed the upholding of France\u2019s religious \u201cneutrality\u201d had become an increasingly aggressive and repressive secularism affecting Islam.\u201cThe anti-Islamic climate is causing a crackdown on other religions,\u201d he told Le Nouvel Observateur weekly magazine. But, he added, the law is the law, and \u201ccribs are a religious symbol that has no place in a public space.\u201dFrance is struggling to contain sectarian tensions. The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, speaking after the brutal robbery of a Jewish couple in a Paris suburb last week, announced on Sunday that the fight against racism and antisemitism would be a \u201cnational cause\u201d.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Europe", "World news", "Christmas", "Life and style", "Marine Le Pen"], "title": "Unholy row as nativity scene ban divides France"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "france", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-20T15:13:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "Foreign Islamic preachers will be obliged to take an officially recognised diploma before being allowed to work in France, under measures being considered by the French government.The new rules, if adopted, would affect more than 70% of imams and Muslim community leaders in France and are aimed at combating the spread of Islamist extremism and the radicalisation of young people.The report comes as France investigates two men, Micha\u00ebl Dos Santos and Maxime Hauchard, believed to be involved in the beheadings of 18 Syrian soldiers and the US aid worker Peter Kassig in Syria.An unpublished report, obtained by the Guardian, suggests officials should introduce measures to control who influences France\u2019s Muslim population of about 5.5 million people. Formal and \u201cuniversal\u201d training for Muslim religious leaders, it says, will discourage extremism, lead to greater integration and put imams on a level with clergy from other main religions.However, Marco Ventura, a professor of law and religion at the University of Leuven in Belgium, who has seen the report, said it raised the controversial question of government meddling in religion. \u201cThis would be state intervention that reached to the heart of the Muslim community and affected its internal organisation,\u201d he said.\u201cIn many ways, though, it represents a return to 19th-century ideas of involving the state in religious training with the aim of modernisation. In those days, the targets were Jews and Christians. The document itself makes the point that there are precedents for what is being suggested.\u201dFrench officials estimate there are 1,800 imams working in the country, only 25-30% of whom hold French nationality. Of the 1,800, only 800 at most are paid part- or full-time. Almost all of those receiving a salary are from Turkey, Algeria and Morocco and have been trained in their countries.The report, by Prof Francis Messner, an Islamic studies expert and director of research at France\u2019s National Centre for Scientific Research, suggests the introduction of more degree courses at higher education colleges. The course syllabus should include secular civic studies, humanities, science and other religions, it says. Diplomas in Islamic theology from private colleges would be officially recognised only if they included these subjects.Messner said existing theological instruction for priests, pastors and rabbis had set a precedent. This teaching is intended to \u201cavoid the creation of counter-societies preaching the supremacy of divine law over human law\u00a0\u2026 [and] encourage the education of a tolerant, enlightened clergy\u00a0\u2026 [that is] tolerant of other religious traditions or other forms of thought\u201d.The report recognises the difficulty of imposing training on Islamic preachers and giving them an official status because of the lack of a structured clergy in Islam, and the \u201cmultitude of associations or federations that are sometimes under the control of foreign states\u201d.\u201cThe absence of a status defined by the religion itself, has produced the multiplying of self-proclaimed religious leaders.\u201dThe report adds: The report recognises that since 2008, France has created a \u201cwell-structured civic- and civil-training network for religious leaders, particularly Muslim religious leaders\u201d, but says there must be more universities offering religious diplomas as well as centres of excellence in Islamic humanities and social sciences.\u201cThe obtaining of a visa for foreign religious leaders wanting to work in France could be made conditional on their agreeing to study for a university diploma and, consequently, proving their good command of French,\u201d the report suggests. \u201cThe recruitment of chaplains in the army, hospitals and prison establishments, who are public agents paid by the authorities, should be reserved for those candidates holding an university degree in civil and civic studies.\u201dVentura said the report would trigger a debate on whether a neutral state should go so far. \u201cBut it is not clear whether the Muslims themselves will be opposed to these proposals. In Morocco and Turkey, for example, they are used to the idea of the state intervening actively in the affairs of the mosque.\u201cThe proposals could also have implications for Christians \u2013 churches who bring in priests and vicars from abroad would presumably be subject to the same rules.\u201dIn a letter commissioning the report last year, French interior and education ministers wrote: \u201cIt is not intended in any way to enter into the theological content of the programmes which, in our republic, is exclusively the responsibility of the religious authorities.\u201dThe report comes as France investigates two Frenchmen believed to be involved in the horrific beheadings of 18 Syrian soldiers and the US aid worker Peter Kassig. Maxime Hauchard, 22,from Normandy, and Micha\u00ebl Dos Santos, 22, from Champigny-sur-Marne, were named by the French interior ministry after being identified in the Islamic State (Isis) propaganda video of the murders released on Sunday. Intelligence officers, however, believe the two jihadis were radicalised through the internet.An Isis film released this week \u2013 part of an intensifying propaganda to recruit foreign fighters \u2013 showed three French nationals burning their passports and calling on Muslims in France to join the group in Syria and Iraq or carry out attacks at home.The interior ministry released figures this week stating that 1,132 French citizens were implicated in Isis, either as would-be fighters or suppliers of false papers. There are believed to be about 376 French Isis fighters, while dozens more are believed to be on their way or to have returned.The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, said 138 suspected Islamists in France were under investigation or in prison and had been neutralised.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "Islamic State", "Education"], "title": "Muslim preachers in France may be forced to take diploma"},{"date": "2014-11-09T10:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you stop at Porte Maillot, on the inner ring road of Paris, late on a Friday afternoon you will see dozens of cars pausing to pick up complete strangers and their luggage, then setting off to some weekend destination.The huge roundabout, one of the capital\u2019s main hubs for co-voiturage, or carpooling, is a good indication of how people\u2019s attitude to cars has changed. The car is still an essential form of private transport, but its social value now finds an outlet in collective use. Carpooling, which is more economical, flexible and sociable than travelling alone, is one of the more visible aspects of a profound change also reflected in the growth of car-sharing (short-term rental) and peer-to-peer sharing.Car-sharing services such as BlaBlaCar (10 million members in 13 European countries) or Autolib\u2019 (170,000 subscribers in Paris) have become popular for a growing number of people, particularly the young and urban. The trend raises many questions about the shifting status and dented image of an object that made such a deep mark on the 20th century.Leading brands acknowledge the crisis in the perception of motor vehicles in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in the United States. Fortunately for them, consumers in Russia, China, India and Brazil, among others, see things differently.In western Europe there is plenty to suggest that interest in cars is cooling. Predictably the economic crisis has had an impact, but the experts report that the market overreacted to the downturn. \u201cCar sales in the European Union, between 2007 and 2013, fell by almost 25%. Though the economic climate is expected to improve, we do not expect to see a return to pre-crisis volumes,\u201d says Michel Costes, head of specialist consultants Inovev. Substantial investment in public transport has also contributed to a gradual decline in household spending on new cars.One revealing sign is that, despite the price of cars having dropped in relation to average wages, most consumers think that replacing their vehicle is \u201cbeyond their means\u201d. \u201cThe French have opted to spend more on other items such as homes and their upkeep, entertainment and information technology. Car ownership currently accounts for about 14% of average spending and is seen by a growing number of households as a burden,\u201d says R\u00e9mi Cornubert, a specialist on automobile trends at analysts Oliver Wyman.\u201cThe French love their cars,\u201d President Pompidou asserted in the early 1970s, but these days few people would endorse such a claim. \u201cThe utilitarian component of the purchase is uppermost,\u201d says Guillaume Paoli, head of dealers Aramis Auto. \u201cCosts carry more weight with consumers than image or prestige. Nor does it make much difference if it\u2019s new or second-hand. Even switching from one make to another is no longer an issue. There is every indication the car is no longer an emblematic object.\u201dThe cause of greatest concern for manufacturers is the ageing customer base and the generation gap it reveals. In France the average age at which people buy their first new car is close to 55. Meanwhile the under-30s account for less than 10% of customers. A typical carpooler is 33. These figures not only indicate the difference in buying power between generations, but reflect the dwindling interest in cars, a consumer good which the French \u2013 to an even greater extent than the German, Spanish, Italian or British neighbours \u2013 tend to view as suspect.In a country with a long record of higher-than-average road casualties there are many reasons for such misgivings, motor vehicles being associated with pollution, congested cities and fatalities. The economic crisis seems to have exacerbated this malaise. The French still shun those who make too much show of their wealth and flashy cars may well be seen as ostentatious and somehow arrogant.\u201cWith [French philosophers] Baudrillard and Bourdieu, France started questioning the consumer society some time ago,\u201d says sociologist Eric Fouquier, head of the market research firm Th\u00e9ma. \u201cIn the 2000s this critical sensibility really began to impact on purchasing patterns, accentuating the possible misgivings prompted by cars, easily perceived as a clumsy assertion of social status.\u201dCar culture in France is dogged by this sensitivity to social inequality. Manufacturers have made their mark with popular, but non-conformist models that place the emphasis on practical qualities \u2013 the Citro\u00ebn 2CV and Renault 4, 16 and Espace. The only exception to this tradition was the high-tech, yet middle-class Citro\u00ebn DS. Rooted in a pragmatic, democratic approach to motor vehicles, this tradition has resulted in considerable variety but has done little to fetishise cars. In the land of luxury goods and high fashion, cars have been set apart. French car manufacturers ceased producing top-of-the-range models and sports cars as long ago as the 1950s. Compared with elsewhere in Europe, rich French people buy comparatively few Mercedes, Audis, BMWs or Jaguars \u2013 and not just to pay less tax.However 86% of all French households still own a car. \u201cThere is a widening gap between those who are losing interest in cars, and those still drawn to objects they see as offering scope for differentiation. What is more, this split transcends other social distinctions,\u201d Cornubert asserts.But not all customers are \u201cestranged drivers\u201d; some are still prepared to pay more for extra features to personalise their car. In some cases this means they have to join carpool schemes, driving their own vehicle to cover the cost of the loan or just its upkeep. The industry will, nevertheless, have to come to terms with consumers who are solely concerned with a vehicle\u2019s functional value.\u201cJust as in many other sectors, the car industry is shifting from manufacturing a product to delivering a service,\u201d Costes explains. By entering into partnerships with car-share operators, manufacturers such as Renault, PSA, Daimler and BMW have already committed themselves to this. But the industry is also focusing much of its attention on the arrival, circa 2018-20, of driverless cars.The large manufacturers see this technological leap as a way of updating the image of the car, particularly with the younger generation. But it may fuel a wholesale shift to car-sharing. After all, what is the point in owning a car you don\u2019t even drive?This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Household bills", "Motoring", "Motoring", "Travel and transport", "Automotive industry", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "France falls out of love with the car"},{"date": "2014-11-07T11:58:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the beginning of October France\u2019s foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, officially re-opened the Villa Kujoyama in Kyoto. Like the two other grand French institutions abroad \u2013 the Villa Medici in Rome and the Villa Velazquez in Madrid \u2013 the centre in the hills overlooking Kyoto welcomes 23 artists in residence every year for periods of three to six months. It closed in 2012, not so much due to structural worries, more out of existential fatigue. Some feared it would never open again. There were questions over resources; concerns whether those who exhibited there were a true reflection of French cultural ambitions; more importantly, were such ambitions too far removed from contemporary Japan?However, it was the fabric of the building that was the initial focus. A French architect, Adrien Petit, was tasked with the usual clean-up that ageing concrete structures require. The work was sponsored by Pierre Berg\u00e9, the erstwhile companion of Yves Saint-Laurent. The villa, designed by Kunio Kato in the late 1980s, in a style part Lloyd Wright, part Le Corbusier, makes good use of its setting, the light and shadow of the surrounding vegetation softening the concrete geometry. But at a practical level it was starting to be affected by damp where it abutted the hillside.While the repairs were under way, the Institut Fran\u00e7ais \u2013 the cultural arm of the foreign ministry \u2013 re-organised the way the villa operates. The original idea goes back to well before 1992, when it opened, and makes great play of exchange, as advocated by the writer Paul Claudel. When he was ambassador to Japan, Claudel supervised the first Franco-Japanese foundation in 1927, on the same spot as today\u2019s villa. Its construction was indebted to a Francophile dye manufacturer, Katsutaro Inabata, who had studied in Lyon. The foundation then moved into premises opposite Kyoto University and the old site fell into disrepair. In the late 1980s, when the Institute Fran\u00e7ais was considering redeveloping the site, Inabata\u2019s grandson, Katsuo, raised funds to build the villa we see today.The institute\u2019s charter stresses that artists in residence should work in tandem with Japanese counterparts in the same field. This collaboration starts at the top, for the establishment is now managed jointly by Christian Merlhiot and Sumiko Oe-Gottini. Artists come here, not to work on Japan as such, but to pursue their creative work in \u201csymbiosis\u201d with the Japanese, \u201ccasting light on as yet unexplored territory, where two natures, two languages and two gestures mix and finally merge into one another\u201d, in the words of philosopher Michel Serres.This was particularly true of one of the first artists in residence, when the centre was headed by Michel Wasserman. The American-born choreographer Susan Buirge launched a semi-permanent company with a master of traditional Japanese dance, and went on to create a three-part series reflecting the Japanese seasons. One of these pieces was performed at the reopening, interpreted by a Japanese pupil and accompanied by three gagaku (court) instruments.In keeping with Claudel\u2019s idea, the institute seeks to offer both a Japanese container \u2013 the building \u2013 and French content \u2013 artists and management. Already sponsorship for the refurbishment of the villa \u2013 at a cost of \u20ac500,000 ($625,000) \u2013 has been found. However, more will be needed for ongoing running costs. The Bettencourt-Sch\u00fcller Foundation will provide \u20ac750,000 over a three-year period. After that point, more private sponsorship will be needed.That will underline the need for the Villa Kujoyama to prove its cultural value. The selection of artists who fulfil its founding principle must be stricter and the content of the work on show should link to Kyoto\u2019s great tradition of craft and fine art. This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Architecture", "Culture", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Japan", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Villa Kujoyama reopening cements France-Japan cultural collaboration"},{"date": "2014-11-20T11:33:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Morillon, just 50 minutes\u2019 drive from Geneva, lies in the Haut-Giffre valley in France\u2019s Haute Savoie region. It\u2019s one of five interconnected resorts within the Grand Massif ski area. Flaine, the most well-known, is purpose-built up the mountain, with 1960s Bauhaus architecture by Marcel Breuer. Sixt-Fer-a-Cheval is quiet and pretty, Samo\u00ebns has unusual cafes and shops, Les Carroz is small and handy for some steep off-piste tree runs, and Morillon is central to it all. It\u2019s a traditional village, with good nursery slopes and links to a huge ski area. It\u2019s the cheap, family-friendly option of the five. Though the Grand Massif is France\u2019s fourth-largest ski area, the Giffre is something of a forgotten valley, overlooked in favour of nearby Chamonix. It\u2019s quiet but stunning, with dramatic limestone cliffs and the Fer \u00e0 Cheval (horseshoe), a 700m semicircular wall of rock at the valley\u2019s end, giving it a more dramatic appearance than other pretty Alpine resorts. The villages date back to at least 1144, when an abbey was built in Sixt, and retain their historic character, with lovely stone buildings.Families will love it: it\u2019s quiet, with lots of activities and beginners\u2019 runs. Morillon has a children\u2019s village for six-month to 10-year-olds, featuring sledge runs, an ice rink and free activities; and there\u2019s good choice of bargain apartments and chalets.From Morillon a fast cable car whisks skiers up to where easy runs and lifts connect to the other resorts of the Grand Massif. It\u2019s quite a distance back from Flaine though. Don\u2019t miss the lovely, long, 14km blue, the Piste des Cascades, which passes waterfalls and ends in Sixt, where you can have a vin chaud before catching the free shuttle bus back to Morillon, which runs between the resorts until 6pm.Challenging skiing is limited, but on powder days Flaine\u2019s bowls and the Ger bowl are the places to head for, and I found steep off-piste tree runs above Les Carroz and Les Molliets, and was one of the only ones looping it for hours. There\u2019s a JamPark in Flaine, and a boardercross. You could hire a guide and attempt the Pas de Sales, a 13km run with a 50m abseil section in the middle, or head over to do the classic Vall\u00e9e Blanche.It\u2019s easy to reach Sixt and Samo\u00ebns by bus or car from Morillon, and you\u2019ll probably split your evenings between the three. Samo\u00ebns has charming shops, such as La Remise Enchant\u00e9e, which sells beautiful handmade puppets, and Montagne et Chocolat, a gorgeous old-fashioned sweet shop and cafe. You can book a tour of historic Samo\u00ebns, to see the 12th-century church, old wooden greniers, and creeper-covered stone buildings built by the town\u2019s once globally renowned stonemasons. There are many other snowy activities, including skijoring (being pulled along on skis by a horse), long cross-country ski tracks, dog-sledding and torch-lit snowshoe treks followed by fondue. Atmospheric Sixt, a historic mountaineering hotspot where Everest climbers trained, has around 60 ice-climbing itineraries.La Puzze opposite the Morillon lift is a basic bar that\u2019s OK for a beer at the end of the day. It\u2019s usually sleepy, though I did see drunk people falling off their chairs, if that\u2019s what you\u2019re after. Morillon is at its liveliest on Wednesday evenings, with a street market selling wine, cheese, charcuterie and gifts. Otherwise, no!Try the huge variety of savoury and sweet crepes, accompanied by a bowl of delicious Breton cider, at La Fandioleuse in Samo\u00ebns. Le 27 in Sixt has modern European cuisine, such as fish with mushroom and parmesan polenta.Morillon has: 265km of pistes, 69 lifts, highest altitude 2,500m, 20 green runs, 65 blue runs, 50 red runs and 14 black runsIt\u2019s good for: peace, scenery, value, families, quick transfersCosts: Lift pass adult \u00a3185 a week, child \u00a3139. Beer \u20ac5.80Limitations: Morillon\u2019s beginners\u2019 runs are low-altitude so can fall victim to rain and mist. It\u2019s really quiet, no lively bars or clubsFind apartments and chalets at ownersdirect.co.uk/morillon. Or Hotel Morillon (from \u00a3583pp a week or \u00a395 a night, half-board, +33 4 50 90 10 32, hotellemorillon.com) is a proper Alpine hotel with cute pine-panelled rooms, a cosy bar with giant fireplace, and a small spa and pool. Fly or take the new Eurostar to Geneva, the nearest TGV is Cluses.\u2022 More information from ot-morillon.co.uk, savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Alps holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France"},{"date": "2014-12-21T17:34:07Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jars of foie gras are flying off supermarket shelves as they usually do in the festive season, but could it be that the French, the principal producers and consumers of the delicacy, are becoming squeamish about the controversial gourmet dish?According to an OpinionWay poll carried out for a French animal protection group, 47% of those questioned said they would support a ban on the force feeding of geese and ducks, the process by which foie gras, or fatty liver, is made.Known as gavage in French, the process involves pumping corn mash into the gullets of geese and ducks to enlarge their livers. Animal rights groups denounce it as gruesome and cruel and have called the dish \u201ctorture in a tin\u201d.California banned foie gras in a 2004 ruling that was upheld by the supreme court in October after appeals by restaurant owners and producers.In France, the L214 animal rights group has been campaigning against force-feeding and noted that the percentage of those opposed to the process was three points higher this year than in 2013.The poll released on Saturday showed that 29% said they would avoid buying the delicacy for ethical reasons. L214 said sales in France had declined by 5.6% over the past three years.One producer in Aiguillon, south-west France, played down the impact of the study:\u201cIf people don\u2019t like foie gras, they don\u2019t need to eat it. Just don\u2019t harass us, that\u2019s all\u201d.Hubert Garez of the foie gras producer La Ferme de Ramon, said eating foie gras was a pleasure. \u201cIt will remain a French dish. It\u2019s part of our originality,\u201d he said.Of those surveyed, 77% said they would prefer foie gras that was not made through force feeding,but Garez was sceptical, saying the French public research institute INRA had looked into alternatives \u201cand it would be a disaster\u201d. Animal rights organisations accuse the INRA of siding with the foie gras producers.Several European countries, including Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany and Switzerland, have banned the production of foie gras. An increasing number of chefs in Britain, including in the royal household of the Prince of Wales, have removed the dish from their menus.Earlier this month, the celebrity chef Heston Blumenthal dropped his French supplier of foie gras, after seeing a video which showed caged birds covered in feed and vomit being force-fed. Brigitte Gothi\u00e8re, a L214 spokeswoman, said: \u201cIn the light of such images, we are expecting the same reaction in France as in England.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Force-fed foie gras loses favour in France"},{"date": "2014-12-16T15:32:17Z", "country": "france", "content": "Award-winning French novelist Michel Houellebecq has sparked an outcry after it emerged that his new novel tells of France being run by a Muslim president.In 2022, with the help of the French Socialist party and the centrists, Mohammed Ben Abbes defeats the far-right Front National and takes up residence at the Elys\u00e9e Palace. The country is in turmoil.Soumission (Submission), which will be published in the new year, will confirm Houellebecq\u2019s reputation as one of France\u2019s most provocative writers.Even the title has been described as provocative, suggesting a translation of the word \u201cIslam\u201d, which in Arabic means submission to the will of Allah.The narrator of the plot, described as a typical Houellebecq antihero, is a 44-year-old literary professor, who occasionally frequents prostitutes and is attracted by women half his age.The novel suggests that despite record unpopularity, France\u2019s Socialist president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, clings on to power until 2022, but is eliminated in the first round of the presidential elections by a far-right Front National candidate and by Ben Abbes, representing the imaginary Muslim Fraternity party. With the support of the left, centre and the centre-right UMP party led by former president Nicolas Sarkozy, Abbes wins the election.Les Inrockuptibles magazine said the plot \u201ccompletely overturns society\u201d.Houellebecq, 56, whose real name is Michel Thomas, caused a row with his book Les Particules \u00e9l\u00e9mentaires (Atomised in English) in which he suggested the hippies of the May 1968 student movement had created the \u201cserial killers of the 1990s\u201d.In an 2001 interview with the review Lire he attacked Islam describing it as \u201cthe most stupid religion\u201d.\u201cI say to myself that the fact of believing in a single god is the behaviour of a cretin, I can\u2019t find another word. And the stupidest religion is, let\u2019s face it, Islam \u2026 the Bible, at least, is beautiful because the Jews have a huge literary talent \u2026 and for that they can be forgiven much.\u201dAfterwards, four Muslim organisations took legal action against him claiming he was \u201cinsulting a group of people because of their religious beliefs\u201d and was \u201ccomplicit in inciting racial hatred\u201d.Houellebecq told the court he did not despise Muslims, but held contempt for their religion adding that like Christianity and Judaism it was based on \u201ctexts of hate\u201d. The court dismissed the case against him.Soumission is Houellebecq\u2019s first novel since 2010 when he published La Carte et le Territoire (The Map and the Territory), which featured as its main character the \u201ccelebrated novelist Michel Houllebecq\u201d. The novel won the Prix Goncourt, France\u2019s top literary award.Houllebecq is the most translated, and hence internationally renowned, of all France\u2019s contemporary writers, but has been accused of racism, xenophobia and playing up to the media.Soumission will be his sixth novel.On Tuesday, France\u2019s culture minister, Fleur Pellerin, told French radio she would certainly read it, adding that Houellebecq had always been a \u201cprovocative novelist\u201d who had a \u201cstrange sense of humour.\u201dFrance24 television said the 300-page book risked \u201cinflaming passions\u201d.\u201cWe all know the writer\u2019s taste for provocation and soundbite declarations,\u201d it said.In the 2011 Lire interview, Houellebecq, who admitted he was \u201calways on the side of the Jews\u201d directed his bile not only at Islam but other \u201cmonotheisms\u201d for which he said he felt a \u201ctotal rejection\u201d. In an interview in August he told French journalists he found \u201cthe figure of Christ to be very unpleasant\u201d.Soumission is published by Flammarion on 7 January.", "tags": ["Michel Houellebecq", "Books", "France", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Michel Houellebecq provokes France with story of Muslim president"},{"date": "2014-12-07T14:15:27Z", "country": "france", "content": "It has been called the nativity war. A French court\u2019s ban on a nativity scene in a town hall in order to preserve France\u2019s secular traditions has triggered a fierce backlash.\u201cWhy not ban Christmas and the public holidays that go with it?\u201d thundered Le Parisien on Sunday. Its headline read: \u201cSpare us a nativity war.\u201d According to the newspaper, 86% of more than 12,000 readers surveyed were in favour of keeping nativity scenes in public places.The court in Nantes ordered regional authorities in the western town of La Roche-sur-Yon to remove the crib from its building\u2019s entrance hall, after a complaint from the secular campaign group F\u00e9d\u00e9ration Nationale de la Libre Pens\u00e9e.The council is appealing against the decision with the support of national politicians including the Front National leader Marine Le Pen, who described it as \u201cstupid and blinkered secularism\u201d. The local senator, Bruno Retailleau, issued a statement saying: \u201cNext we\u2019ll be banning epiphany cakes at the \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace.\u201dThe Nantes tribunal invoked a 1905 law that enshrines the separation of state and church. But other town halls are fighting similar decisions. In the southern town of B\u00e9ziers, the FN-supported mayor, Robert M\u00e9nard, is refusing to dismantle a crib in the town hall in defiance of a letter from the prefect ordering him to respect the constitutional and legislative principles guaranteeing secularism. Authorities in Melun, south-east of Paris, where a nativity scene has been set up in the town hall gardens for the past 10 years, are awaiting a court ruling.The controversy comes as the government is anxious not to be seen as discriminating against only Muslims, who have been banned from wearing burqas or niqabs in public. But critics say the government is leaning too far the other way to protect the country\u2019s secular traditions.Nadine Morano, an outspoken deputy with the centre-right UMP party, said \u201csecularism must not kill our country, our roots and our traditions.\u201dA sociologist, Jean Baub\u00e9rot, claimed the upholding of France\u2019s religious \u201cneutrality\u201d had become an increasingly aggressive and repressive secularism affecting Islam.\u201cThe anti-Islamic climate is causing a crackdown on other religions,\u201d he told Le Nouvel Observateur weekly magazine. But, he added, the law is the law, and \u201ccribs are a religious symbol that has no place in a public space.\u201dFrance is struggling to contain sectarian tensions. The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, speaking after the brutal robbery of a Jewish couple in a Paris suburb last week, announced on Sunday that the fight against racism and antisemitism would be a \u201cnational cause\u201d.", "tags": ["France", "Religion", "Europe", "World news", "Christmas", "Life and style", "Marine Le Pen"], "title": "Unholy row as nativity scene ban divides France"},{"date": "2014-11-28T14:03:57Z", "country": "france", "content": "The new European commission has shied from penalising eurozone countries, notably France and Italy, for being in breach of the single currency rulebook, and has given Paris and Rome until next spring to deliver on their pledges of sweeping changes to their labour markets and other structural reforms.\u201cAs a new commission, we\u2019re not seeing it as a priority to punish countries,\u201d said Valdis Dombrovskis of Latvia, its new vice-president in charge of the euro.Armed with new powers to scrutinise eurozone draft budgets in advance, dictate changes and punish recalcitrants, the commission said seven of 16 countries being assessed were at risk of breaking the stability and growth pact.Of those, France, Italy and Belgium were the most serious sinners: France because of its persistent inability to get its budget deficit to within 3% of GDP; Italy and Belgium because of soaring public debt levels well beyond the 60% of GDP limit.All three countries have written to Brussels promising to do more to comply with the rules. Less than a month into the tenure of the five-year commission under Jean-Claude Juncker, Brussels decided to give the three countries the benefit of the doubt.Dombrovskis made it plain that France was the major worry. It has twice been given leeway to get its spending within the eurozone\u2019s limits, but now says it will not succeed until 2017.\u201cAll options are on the table,\u201d said Dombrovskis. \u201cFrance is not meeting the targets for deficit reduction \u2026 But given the commitment of the countries, the European commission opinion is to give those countries more time to implement their structural reforms.\u201dHe singled out reforms of labour markets and closed professions systems, shifting taxation from labour to consumption and freeing up markets in goods and services.By March or April, he said, the commission would be scrutinising France\u2019s 2014 budget performance, not on the basis of estimates or forecasts but on actual data. Germany was judged to be compliant with the stability pact, but Dombrovskis also said that the commission was urging Berlin to do more to boost recovery prospects in the EU by stimulating demand, pointing critically to a 6% current account surplus this year.\u201cThe information available so far indicates that France has not taken effective action for 2014 at this stage,\u201d said the commission. \u201cFrance has made limited progress with regard to the structural part of the fiscal recommendations issued in \u2026 2014.\u201d\u201cWe will decide in early March whether any further steps are necessary,\u201d said the commissioner for economic affairs, Pierre Moscovici, who was France\u2019s finance minister until earlier this year.The aggregate deficit for the eurozone, minus Greece and Cyprus, which are in bailouts, has fallen within the 3% limit this year for the first time since the financial crisis.Dombrovskis said that all 28 EU economies will register growth next year for the first time since the recession.", "tags": ["European monetary union", "European Union", "European commission", "Europe", "World news", "France", "Italy", "Economics", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "Eurozone"], "title": "Brussels defers punishing France and Italy for breaking eurozone rules"},{"date": "2014-11-20T15:13:26Z", "country": "france", "content": "Foreign Islamic preachers will be obliged to take an officially recognised diploma before being allowed to work in France, under measures being considered by the French government.The new rules, if adopted, would affect more than 70% of imams and Muslim community leaders in France and are aimed at combating the spread of Islamist extremism and the radicalisation of young people.The report comes as France investigates two men, Micha\u00ebl Dos Santos and Maxime Hauchard, believed to be involved in the beheadings of 18 Syrian soldiers and the US aid worker Peter Kassig in Syria.An unpublished report, obtained by the Guardian, suggests officials should introduce measures to control who influences France\u2019s Muslim population of about 5.5 million people. Formal and \u201cuniversal\u201d training for Muslim religious leaders, it says, will discourage extremism, lead to greater integration and put imams on a level with clergy from other main religions.However, Marco Ventura, a professor of law and religion at the University of Leuven in Belgium, who has seen the report, said it raised the controversial question of government meddling in religion. \u201cThis would be state intervention that reached to the heart of the Muslim community and affected its internal organisation,\u201d he said.\u201cIn many ways, though, it represents a return to 19th-century ideas of involving the state in religious training with the aim of modernisation. In those days, the targets were Jews and Christians. The document itself makes the point that there are precedents for what is being suggested.\u201dFrench officials estimate there are 1,800 imams working in the country, only 25-30% of whom hold French nationality. Of the 1,800, only 800 at most are paid part- or full-time. Almost all of those receiving a salary are from Turkey, Algeria and Morocco and have been trained in their countries.The report, by Prof Francis Messner, an Islamic studies expert and director of research at France\u2019s National Centre for Scientific Research, suggests the introduction of more degree courses at higher education colleges. The course syllabus should include secular civic studies, humanities, science and other religions, it says. Diplomas in Islamic theology from private colleges would be officially recognised only if they included these subjects.Messner said existing theological instruction for priests, pastors and rabbis had set a precedent. This teaching is intended to \u201cavoid the creation of counter-societies preaching the supremacy of divine law over human law\u00a0\u2026 [and] encourage the education of a tolerant, enlightened clergy\u00a0\u2026 [that is] tolerant of other religious traditions or other forms of thought\u201d.The report recognises the difficulty of imposing training on Islamic preachers and giving them an official status because of the lack of a structured clergy in Islam, and the \u201cmultitude of associations or federations that are sometimes under the control of foreign states\u201d.\u201cThe absence of a status defined by the religion itself, has produced the multiplying of self-proclaimed religious leaders.\u201dThe report adds: The report recognises that since 2008, France has created a \u201cwell-structured civic- and civil-training network for religious leaders, particularly Muslim religious leaders\u201d, but says there must be more universities offering religious diplomas as well as centres of excellence in Islamic humanities and social sciences.\u201cThe obtaining of a visa for foreign religious leaders wanting to work in France could be made conditional on their agreeing to study for a university diploma and, consequently, proving their good command of French,\u201d the report suggests. \u201cThe recruitment of chaplains in the army, hospitals and prison establishments, who are public agents paid by the authorities, should be reserved for those candidates holding an university degree in civil and civic studies.\u201dVentura said the report would trigger a debate on whether a neutral state should go so far. \u201cBut it is not clear whether the Muslims themselves will be opposed to these proposals. In Morocco and Turkey, for example, they are used to the idea of the state intervening actively in the affairs of the mosque.\u201cThe proposals could also have implications for Christians \u2013 churches who bring in priests and vicars from abroad would presumably be subject to the same rules.\u201dIn a letter commissioning the report last year, French interior and education ministers wrote: \u201cIt is not intended in any way to enter into the theological content of the programmes which, in our republic, is exclusively the responsibility of the religious authorities.\u201dThe report comes as France investigates two Frenchmen believed to be involved in the horrific beheadings of 18 Syrian soldiers and the US aid worker Peter Kassig. Maxime Hauchard, 22,from Normandy, and Micha\u00ebl Dos Santos, 22, from Champigny-sur-Marne, were named by the French interior ministry after being identified in the Islamic State (Isis) propaganda video of the murders released on Sunday. Intelligence officers, however, believe the two jihadis were radicalised through the internet.An Isis film released this week \u2013 part of an intensifying propaganda to recruit foreign fighters \u2013 showed three French nationals burning their passports and calling on Muslims in France to join the group in Syria and Iraq or carry out attacks at home.The interior ministry released figures this week stating that 1,132 French citizens were implicated in Isis, either as would-be fighters or suppliers of false papers. There are believed to be about 376 French Isis fighters, while dozens more are believed to be on their way or to have returned.The interior minister, Bernard Cazeneuve, said 138 suspected Islamists in France were under investigation or in prison and had been neutralised.", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "Islam", "Religion", "Islamic State", "Education"], "title": "Muslim preachers in France may be forced to take diploma"},{"date": "2014-11-09T10:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "If you stop at Porte Maillot, on the inner ring road of Paris, late on a Friday afternoon you will see dozens of cars pausing to pick up complete strangers and their luggage, then setting off to some weekend destination.The huge roundabout, one of the capital\u2019s main hubs for co-voiturage, or carpooling, is a good indication of how people\u2019s attitude to cars has changed. The car is still an essential form of private transport, but its social value now finds an outlet in collective use. Carpooling, which is more economical, flexible and sociable than travelling alone, is one of the more visible aspects of a profound change also reflected in the growth of car-sharing (short-term rental) and peer-to-peer sharing.Car-sharing services such as BlaBlaCar (10 million members in 13 European countries) or Autolib\u2019 (170,000 subscribers in Paris) have become popular for a growing number of people, particularly the young and urban. The trend raises many questions about the shifting status and dented image of an object that made such a deep mark on the 20th century.Leading brands acknowledge the crisis in the perception of motor vehicles in Europe and, to a lesser extent, in the United States. Fortunately for them, consumers in Russia, China, India and Brazil, among others, see things differently.In western Europe there is plenty to suggest that interest in cars is cooling. Predictably the economic crisis has had an impact, but the experts report that the market overreacted to the downturn. \u201cCar sales in the European Union, between 2007 and 2013, fell by almost 25%. Though the economic climate is expected to improve, we do not expect to see a return to pre-crisis volumes,\u201d says Michel Costes, head of specialist consultants Inovev. Substantial investment in public transport has also contributed to a gradual decline in household spending on new cars.One revealing sign is that, despite the price of cars having dropped in relation to average wages, most consumers think that replacing their vehicle is \u201cbeyond their means\u201d. \u201cThe French have opted to spend more on other items such as homes and their upkeep, entertainment and information technology. Car ownership currently accounts for about 14% of average spending and is seen by a growing number of households as a burden,\u201d says R\u00e9mi Cornubert, a specialist on automobile trends at analysts Oliver Wyman.\u201cThe French love their cars,\u201d President Pompidou asserted in the early 1970s, but these days few people would endorse such a claim. \u201cThe utilitarian component of the purchase is uppermost,\u201d says Guillaume Paoli, head of dealers Aramis Auto. \u201cCosts carry more weight with consumers than image or prestige. Nor does it make much difference if it\u2019s new or second-hand. Even switching from one make to another is no longer an issue. There is every indication the car is no longer an emblematic object.\u201dThe cause of greatest concern for manufacturers is the ageing customer base and the generation gap it reveals. In France the average age at which people buy their first new car is close to 55. Meanwhile the under-30s account for less than 10% of customers. A typical carpooler is 33. These figures not only indicate the difference in buying power between generations, but reflect the dwindling interest in cars, a consumer good which the French \u2013 to an even greater extent than the German, Spanish, Italian or British neighbours \u2013 tend to view as suspect.In a country with a long record of higher-than-average road casualties there are many reasons for such misgivings, motor vehicles being associated with pollution, congested cities and fatalities. The economic crisis seems to have exacerbated this malaise. The French still shun those who make too much show of their wealth and flashy cars may well be seen as ostentatious and somehow arrogant.\u201cWith [French philosophers] Baudrillard and Bourdieu, France started questioning the consumer society some time ago,\u201d says sociologist Eric Fouquier, head of the market research firm Th\u00e9ma. \u201cIn the 2000s this critical sensibility really began to impact on purchasing patterns, accentuating the possible misgivings prompted by cars, easily perceived as a clumsy assertion of social status.\u201dCar culture in France is dogged by this sensitivity to social inequality. Manufacturers have made their mark with popular, but non-conformist models that place the emphasis on practical qualities \u2013 the Citro\u00ebn 2CV and Renault 4, 16 and Espace. The only exception to this tradition was the high-tech, yet middle-class Citro\u00ebn DS. Rooted in a pragmatic, democratic approach to motor vehicles, this tradition has resulted in considerable variety but has done little to fetishise cars. In the land of luxury goods and high fashion, cars have been set apart. French car manufacturers ceased producing top-of-the-range models and sports cars as long ago as the 1950s. Compared with elsewhere in Europe, rich French people buy comparatively few Mercedes, Audis, BMWs or Jaguars \u2013 and not just to pay less tax.However 86% of all French households still own a car. \u201cThere is a widening gap between those who are losing interest in cars, and those still drawn to objects they see as offering scope for differentiation. What is more, this split transcends other social distinctions,\u201d Cornubert asserts.But not all customers are \u201cestranged drivers\u201d; some are still prepared to pay more for extra features to personalise their car. In some cases this means they have to join carpool schemes, driving their own vehicle to cover the cost of the loan or just its upkeep. The industry will, nevertheless, have to come to terms with consumers who are solely concerned with a vehicle\u2019s functional value.\u201cJust as in many other sectors, the car industry is shifting from manufacturing a product to delivering a service,\u201d Costes explains. By entering into partnerships with car-share operators, manufacturers such as Renault, PSA, Daimler and BMW have already committed themselves to this. But the industry is also focusing much of its attention on the arrival, circa 2018-20, of driverless cars.The large manufacturers see this technological leap as a way of updating the image of the car, particularly with the younger generation. But it may fuel a wholesale shift to car-sharing. After all, what is the point in owning a car you don\u2019t even drive?This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Household bills", "Motoring", "Motoring", "Travel and transport", "Automotive industry", "Renault", "Business"], "title": "France falls out of love with the car"},{"date": "2014-11-07T11:58:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the beginning of October France\u2019s foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, officially re-opened the Villa Kujoyama in Kyoto. Like the two other grand French institutions abroad \u2013 the Villa Medici in Rome and the Villa Velazquez in Madrid \u2013 the centre in the hills overlooking Kyoto welcomes 23 artists in residence every year for periods of three to six months. It closed in 2012, not so much due to structural worries, more out of existential fatigue. Some feared it would never open again. There were questions over resources; concerns whether those who exhibited there were a true reflection of French cultural ambitions; more importantly, were such ambitions too far removed from contemporary Japan?However, it was the fabric of the building that was the initial focus. A French architect, Adrien Petit, was tasked with the usual clean-up that ageing concrete structures require. The work was sponsored by Pierre Berg\u00e9, the erstwhile companion of Yves Saint-Laurent. The villa, designed by Kunio Kato in the late 1980s, in a style part Lloyd Wright, part Le Corbusier, makes good use of its setting, the light and shadow of the surrounding vegetation softening the concrete geometry. But at a practical level it was starting to be affected by damp where it abutted the hillside.While the repairs were under way, the Institut Fran\u00e7ais \u2013 the cultural arm of the foreign ministry \u2013 re-organised the way the villa operates. The original idea goes back to well before 1992, when it opened, and makes great play of exchange, as advocated by the writer Paul Claudel. When he was ambassador to Japan, Claudel supervised the first Franco-Japanese foundation in 1927, on the same spot as today\u2019s villa. Its construction was indebted to a Francophile dye manufacturer, Katsutaro Inabata, who had studied in Lyon. The foundation then moved into premises opposite Kyoto University and the old site fell into disrepair. In the late 1980s, when the Institute Fran\u00e7ais was considering redeveloping the site, Inabata\u2019s grandson, Katsuo, raised funds to build the villa we see today.The institute\u2019s charter stresses that artists in residence should work in tandem with Japanese counterparts in the same field. This collaboration starts at the top, for the establishment is now managed jointly by Christian Merlhiot and Sumiko Oe-Gottini. Artists come here, not to work on Japan as such, but to pursue their creative work in \u201csymbiosis\u201d with the Japanese, \u201ccasting light on as yet unexplored territory, where two natures, two languages and two gestures mix and finally merge into one another\u201d, in the words of philosopher Michel Serres.This was particularly true of one of the first artists in residence, when the centre was headed by Michel Wasserman. The American-born choreographer Susan Buirge launched a semi-permanent company with a master of traditional Japanese dance, and went on to create a three-part series reflecting the Japanese seasons. One of these pieces was performed at the reopening, interpreted by a Japanese pupil and accompanied by three gagaku (court) instruments.In keeping with Claudel\u2019s idea, the institute seeks to offer both a Japanese container \u2013 the building \u2013 and French content \u2013 artists and management. Already sponsorship for the refurbishment of the villa \u2013 at a cost of \u20ac500,000 ($625,000) \u2013 has been found. However, more will be needed for ongoing running costs. The Bettencourt-Sch\u00fcller Foundation will provide \u20ac750,000 over a three-year period. After that point, more private sponsorship will be needed.That will underline the need for the Villa Kujoyama to prove its cultural value. The selection of artists who fulfil its founding principle must be stricter and the content of the work on show should link to Kyoto\u2019s great tradition of craft and fine art. This article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Architecture", "Culture", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Japan", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Villa Kujoyama reopening cements France-Japan cultural collaboration"},{"date": "2014-10-13T09:02:04Z", "country": "france", "content": "Masterpieces by Vincent Van Gogh, Andy Warhol, Claude Monet and Henri Matisse will be among the 300 artworks to be loaned from French museums to the Louvre Abu Dhabi for its December 2015 opening. The \u00a3400m museum will feature paintings and sculptures from 13 French cultural institutions, including Leonardo da Vinci\u2019s Portrait of an Unknown Woman, Claude Monet\u2019s Saint Lazare Station and Andy Warhol\u2019s Big Electric Chair as well as ancient statues, vases and masks from across Asia and Africa.The loaned works will join the permanent collection of Louvre Abu Dhabi, which will be the first universal museum to open in the Arab world.\u201cThis will be the first time many of these works will travel to Abu Dhabi or even the Middle East, and are a rare opportunity to see important art from French museums,\u201d said Sultan bin Tahnoon al-Nahyan, chairman of the Abu Dhabi Tourism & Culture Authority, which is behind the project.Many of France\u2019s most famous museums including the Louvre, Musee d\u2019Orsay and the Palace of Versailles will lend art to Abu Dhabi as part of a 30-year collaboration with the Emirate, worth \u00a3800m.French Culture Minister Fleur Pellerin said the loaning of the works was \u201can acknowledgement of both the extraordinary richness of our national collections and the expertise of our museums\u201d.In 2007, Abu Dhabi paid \u00a3323m to use the prestigious Louvre name. A model replica of the new Arab museum went on display at its French parent gallery last year in an in an exhibition called \u2018The Birth of a Museum\u2019, which showcased a selection of what will eventually become the Louvre Abu Dhabi\u2019s permanent collection.Other artworks to be loaned from France are Titian\u2019s The Woman with a Mirror, Jacques-Louis David\u2019s Napoleon Crossing the Alps and Edouard Manet\u2019s The Fife Player.A French source told AFP that the normally-conservative Emirate had not censored any nudity or religious symbolism that appear in the donated works.The 700,000 sq ft, Jean Nouvel-designed Louvre Abu Dhabi will be one of the centrepieces of a new cultural metropolis on Saadiyat Island, a once uninhabited stretch of coastal desert close to the city centre. It will open next year alongside a new York University campus and a Frank Gehry-designed Guggenheim. ", "tags": ["Art and design", "Painting", "Culture", "Henri Matisse", "Leonardo da Vinci", "Andy Warhol", "Art", "Van Gogh", "Claude Monet"], "title": "Louvre Abu Dhabi scoops up 300 masterpieces from France"},{"date": "2015-03-18T19:23:30Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jessica Reed (Opinion, 14 March) offers a thoughtful view of the French-speakers\u2019 dilemma: she argues the case for linguistic diversity, while admitting the need for the language to preserve its special genius. Speakers of Breton, Occitan, Corsican and Catalan may read this with a hollow laugh. Millions of native French people are made to feel ashamed of speaking their native language. Since the 1790s, the French government has waged a campaign of extermination against the regional languages of France, first refusing to teach them, then starving them of funds and banning them in the public sphere. Their very existence is often denied \u2013 to the point where Breton and Occitan are claimed to be merely bad French, spoken by the ignorant. That they are still spoken by up to 60% in some localities is little short of a marvel. If Ms Pellerin (and Ms Reed) are serious about diversity, they might ask the French to stop quivering every time someone says le weekend, and instead comply with the terms of the\u00a0European charter for regional or minority languages (ECRML), signed in 1999, but not yet acted on.Dr Dick CollinsCrediton, Devon", "tags": ["France", "Languages"], "title": "How France stifles its regional languages | Letters"},{"date": "2015-03-18T19:23:30Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jessica Reed (Opinion, 14 March) offers a thoughtful view of the French-speakers\u2019 dilemma: she argues the case for linguistic diversity, while admitting the need for the language to preserve its special genius. Speakers of Breton, Occitan, Corsican and Catalan may read this with a hollow laugh. Millions of native French people are made to feel ashamed of speaking their native language. Since the 1790s, the French government has waged a campaign of extermination against the regional languages of France, first refusing to teach them, then starving them of funds and banning them in the public sphere. Their very existence is often denied \u2013 to the point where Breton and Occitan are claimed to be merely bad French, spoken by the ignorant. That they are still spoken by up to 60% in some localities is little short of a marvel. If Ms Pellerin (and Ms Reed) are serious about diversity, they might ask the French to stop quivering every time someone says le weekend, and instead comply with the terms of the\u00a0European charter for regional or minority languages (ECRML), signed in 1999, but not yet acted on.Dr Dick CollinsCrediton, Devon", "tags": ["France", "Languages"], "title": "How France stifles its regional languages | Letters"},{"date": "2015-03-13T11:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "I fell in love with food in Besan\u00e7on. I was about 19 and having failed miserably at being a draughtsman, I was looking for my destiny. I saw this restaurant called Le Palais de la Bi\u00e8re on a wonderful summer night. The ma\u00eetre d\u2019h\u00f4tel was carving meat and flamb\u00e9ing pancakes and there were lovers holding hands. It was so beautiful. Oh my God! I said I wanted to become the chef there. It didn\u2019t happen straight away though \u2013 I became the cleaner first.When I was 14, I saved all the money I made from selling the frogs, wild asparagus and mushrooms I collected so I could eat at Le Poker d\u2019As restaurant \u2013 my first great food experience in Besan\u00e7on. I felt rich. It\u2019s a very old restaurant and they cooked things very differently from my maman. I ordered veal kidneys, which were so different to the earthy food I had experienced at home. So many different layers of flavours and textures. I had a half a bottle of the expensive Hermitage red wine and I was a bit sozzled and had spent all my money but I was very happy.The Citadel is as beautiful as the pyramids. It\u2019s a Unesco world heritage site and it\u2019s extraordinary. It\u2019s humbling to see the work of the great master S\u00e9bastien Le Prestre de Vauban, who was an architect and a soldier at the time of Louis XIV and created these defences that encircle the city. There are also Roman ruins \u2013 Julius Caesar had a good fight with the Gauls here.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s streets are wide and open and there are bistros everywhere. They have spent millions of pounds on a new tramway, so you can park your car outside the centre and walk around. It\u2019s beautiful, with lots of old buildings made from the pale blue stone of the Franche-Comt\u00e9 region.My father designed a lovely map for me to hunt mushrooms when I was young and I used to go into the forest looking for morels. They grow under moss, so you have to hunt them by smell. They are conical with beautiful honeycombs and a distinct flavour. You must try cro\u00fbte aux morilles, a classic Franche-Comt\u00e9 mushroom dish.There are a lot of museums in Besan\u00e7on, for a small city \u2013 it is very cultural and people are turned on to the arts there. There is the Mus\u00e9e de la R\u00e9sistance et de la D\u00e9portation, which is about the local resistance during the second world war. My father helped to keep German prisoners there. To see the museum is extraordinary for me. There\u2019s also the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts, which locals call the \u201clittle Louvre\u201d.The whole landscape defines its gastronomy. We have the Montb\u00e9liarde cows, which eat wild herbs and flowers, making some of the richest milk and Comt\u00e9 cheese, the king of the many marvellous Franche-Comt\u00e9 cheeses.Go to Le Vin et l\u2019Assiette, which dates back to the 15th century, to eat. Bernard Leroy, who is a friend of mine, owns this little restaurant. He has a big wine cellar, too. It\u2019s just him, his chef and his wife. You will find that old French hospitality there.I used to hang out often at Brasserie Du Commerce \u2013 a good place to go for a drink. It\u2019s a beautiful 1870s building with an art deco front. The inside is ancient, beautiful and very grand.There is lots to see and do outside of the city. The Royal Saltworks in nearby Arc-et-Senans is another Unesco world heritage site where you can see how salt was such a valuable commodity during the rein of Louis XV. In the nearby town of Arbois you can see Louis Pasteur\u2019s house.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s nickname is the Green City. We have the rugged Jura mountains to the south east and the vineyards to the south. It\u2019s a very strong wine region with the Savagnin and Poulsard wines well worth a try.Besan\u00e7on has a lot of hotels, all quite affordable. I like H\u00f4tel Le Sauvage on the way to the Citadel, about five minutes away from La Porte Noire. It\u2019s a former monastery, and very cosy. I\u2019d also recommend H\u00f4tel De Paris and H\u00f4tel Vauban.I love going back. I visit Montfaucon, a little village that used to be an old fort, built during the 1870 (Franco-Prussian) war. From there, you can see the whole of Besan\u00e7on, the Doubs river, the Citadel, the city and the mountains. There\u2019s so much beauty there.\u2022 Raymond Blanc co-hosts Kew on a Plate, from Monday 16 March, 9pm, BBC2", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Raymond Blanc", "Food & drink", "French food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Chef Raymond Blanc on his favourite home town places: Besan\u00e7on, France"},{"date": "2015-03-18T19:23:30Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jessica Reed (Opinion, 14 March) offers a thoughtful view of the French-speakers\u2019 dilemma: she argues the case for linguistic diversity, while admitting the need for the language to preserve its special genius. Speakers of Breton, Occitan, Corsican and Catalan may read this with a hollow laugh. Millions of native French people are made to feel ashamed of speaking their native language. Since the 1790s, the French government has waged a campaign of extermination against the regional languages of France, first refusing to teach them, then starving them of funds and banning them in the public sphere. Their very existence is often denied \u2013 to the point where Breton and Occitan are claimed to be merely bad French, spoken by the ignorant. That they are still spoken by up to 60% in some localities is little short of a marvel. If Ms Pellerin (and Ms Reed) are serious about diversity, they might ask the French to stop quivering every time someone says le weekend, and instead comply with the terms of the\u00a0European charter for regional or minority languages (ECRML), signed in 1999, but not yet acted on.Dr Dick CollinsCrediton, Devon", "tags": ["France", "Languages"], "title": "How France stifles its regional languages | Letters"},{"date": "2015-03-13T11:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "I fell in love with food in Besan\u00e7on. I was about 19 and having failed miserably at being a draughtsman, I was looking for my destiny. I saw this restaurant called Le Palais de la Bi\u00e8re on a wonderful summer night. The ma\u00eetre d\u2019h\u00f4tel was carving meat and flamb\u00e9ing pancakes and there were lovers holding hands. It was so beautiful. Oh my God! I said I wanted to become the chef there. It didn\u2019t happen straight away though \u2013 I became the cleaner first.When I was 14, I saved all the money I made from selling the frogs, wild asparagus and mushrooms I collected so I could eat at Le Poker d\u2019As restaurant \u2013 my first great food experience in Besan\u00e7on. I felt rich. It\u2019s a very old restaurant and they cooked things very differently from my maman. I ordered veal kidneys, which were so different to the earthy food I had experienced at home. So many different layers of flavours and textures. I had a half a bottle of the expensive Hermitage red wine and I was a bit sozzled and had spent all my money but I was very happy.The Citadel is as beautiful as the pyramids. It\u2019s a Unesco world heritage site and it\u2019s extraordinary. It\u2019s humbling to see the work of the great master S\u00e9bastien Le Prestre de Vauban, who was an architect and a soldier at the time of Louis XIV and created these defences that encircle the city. There are also Roman ruins \u2013 Julius Caesar had a good fight with the Gauls here.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s streets are wide and open and there are bistros everywhere. They have spent millions of pounds on a new tramway, so you can park your car outside the centre and walk around. It\u2019s beautiful, with lots of old buildings made from the pale blue stone of the Franche-Comt\u00e9 region.My father designed a lovely map for me to hunt mushrooms when I was young and I used to go into the forest looking for morels. They grow under moss, so you have to hunt them by smell. They are conical with beautiful honeycombs and a distinct flavour. You must try cro\u00fbte aux morilles, a classic Franche-Comt\u00e9 mushroom dish.There are a lot of museums in Besan\u00e7on, for a small city \u2013 it is very cultural and people are turned on to the arts there. There is the Mus\u00e9e de la R\u00e9sistance et de la D\u00e9portation, which is about the local resistance during the second world war. My father helped to keep German prisoners there. To see the museum is extraordinary for me. There\u2019s also the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts, which locals call the \u201clittle Louvre\u201d.The whole landscape defines its gastronomy. We have the Montb\u00e9liarde cows, which eat wild herbs and flowers, making some of the richest milk and Comt\u00e9 cheese, the king of the many marvellous Franche-Comt\u00e9 cheeses.Go to Le Vin et l\u2019Assiette, which dates back to the 15th century, to eat. Bernard Leroy, who is a friend of mine, owns this little restaurant. He has a big wine cellar, too. It\u2019s just him, his chef and his wife. You will find that old French hospitality there.I used to hang out often at Brasserie Du Commerce \u2013 a good place to go for a drink. It\u2019s a beautiful 1870s building with an art deco front. The inside is ancient, beautiful and very grand.There is lots to see and do outside of the city. The Royal Saltworks in nearby Arc-et-Senans is another Unesco world heritage site where you can see how salt was such a valuable commodity during the rein of Louis XV. In the nearby town of Arbois you can see Louis Pasteur\u2019s house.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s nickname is the Green City. We have the rugged Jura mountains to the south east and the vineyards to the south. It\u2019s a very strong wine region with the Savagnin and Poulsard wines well worth a try.Besan\u00e7on has a lot of hotels, all quite affordable. I like H\u00f4tel Le Sauvage on the way to the Citadel, about five minutes away from La Porte Noire. It\u2019s a former monastery, and very cosy. I\u2019d also recommend H\u00f4tel De Paris and H\u00f4tel Vauban.I love going back. I visit Montfaucon, a little village that used to be an old fort, built during the 1870 (Franco-Prussian) war. From there, you can see the whole of Besan\u00e7on, the Doubs river, the Citadel, the city and the mountains. There\u2019s so much beauty there.\u2022 Raymond Blanc co-hosts Kew on a Plate, from Monday 16 March, 9pm, BBC2", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Raymond Blanc", "Food & drink", "French food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Chef Raymond Blanc on his favourite home town places: Besan\u00e7on, France"},{"date": "2015-02-13T19:35:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is a saga of money, fame and destitute women ferried to luxury locations for sex with powerful men, against a backdrop of economic deprivation and social misery. France has been shaken this week by harrowing testimony from a trial in Lille that not only put in the dock Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former International Monetary Fund chief and one-time French presidential hopeful, but also examined a much wider, depressing picture of poverty, women submitted to sex acts against their will and alleged pimps who referred to them as \u201clivestock\u201d.In court, Strauss-Kahn, 65, the one-time hero of the French left, flatly denied the accusation he aided and abetted the prostitution of seven women \u2013 a charge of \u201caggravated pimping\u201d that carries a 10-year prison sentence. He said he never knew or suspected there were any prostitutes among the many women brought to him by regional French businessmen friends for group sex, at what he termed \u201cfestive afternoons\u201d in Europe and the US while he was head of the IMF.But after three days of distressing testimony at a court in Lille \u2013 during which two prostitutes said Strauss-Kahn had subjected them to a sex act they did not want, and he self-assuredly explained his appetite for group sex and how his sexual style was \u201crougher than the average man\u201d \u2013 France began considering the wider implications of the vast trial known as the \u201cCarlton Affair\u201d, after the luxury hotel in Lille in which Strauss-Kahn has never set foot, but which was at the centre of the first investigation.Strauss-Kahn insisted he never had sex with prostitutes because 'I prefer a party atmosphere before, during and after'The grim stories of what the newspaper Lib\u00e9ration called \u201cthe terrible daily reality\u201d of prostitutes that emerged in the broader Lille trial have shocked France and could push the socialist government, which claims it wants to \u201cabolish\u201d prostitution, to resurrect its plans to criminalise paying for sex \u2013 a law that got through parliament but has stalled in the senate. The court is trying 13 men accused of pimping, including Strauss-Kahn. Most of the accused have no connection to the former IMF director. But two businessmen and a senior Lille police chief are accused of recruiting and paying prostitutes for \u201csoir\u00e9es\u201d with Strauss-Kahn in order to curry favour with him. They deny the charges and say Strauss-Kahn never knew the women were paid because they kept it secret.The testimony of the prostitutes, some of whom were sexually abused as children, has highlighted France\u2019s social and economic problems. Destitute and jobless in the area around the northern city of Lille which has been hit by some of France\u2019s worst unemployment, some of the women went to work just over the Belgian border where brothels are tolerated by law. Jade, who would later be recruited by businessmen to meet Strauss-Kahn in Belgium, Paris and the US, described how she worked at the Belgian \u201cClub Madame\u201d for Dominique Alderweireld, who refers to himself as Dodo the Pimp and is among the accused on trial. She said 12-13 women slept in bunk beds in a kitchen and had to be available at all times. She preferred a sleeping bag in the cellar, but slept dressed in her work outfit because if the front door rang in the night, they would all have to rush upstairs to be exhibited like \u201cmeat on hooks\u201d. She described working day and night, once while \u201cvomiting blood\u201d. Surveillance showed Dodo the Pimp referring to the prostitutes as \u201clivestock\u201d. In her cellar, Jade said she didn\u2019t have a television so she didn\u2019t recognise Strauss-Kahn when she was first taken to him, only seeing him in the press later and exclaiming: \u201cThat\u2019s him with clothes on.\u201d She spoke English, which came in handy at US immigration on a trip to see Strauss-Kahn in Washington, when border staff found it odd that the businessmen and Jade had come all that way for only a couple of nights.Another detail in court was the seeming power trip of the businessmen who delivered women to Strauss-Kahn. \u201cAh, isn\u2019t power great?\u201d one businessman allegedly said during one \u201csoir\u00e9e\u201d where Strauss-Kahn was present. Another, Fabrice Paszkowski \u2013 a Lille entrepreneur who Strauss-Kahn described as a very good friend \u2013 told one woman that he wanted to organise \u201cgiant orgies at the Elys\u00e9e\u201d, presumably when Strauss-Kahn became president of France. One woman told the inquiry she felt women present at one group sex event were used as mere \u201creceptacles\u201d. Another woman participant, asked about others suffering during the group sex, told the inquiry: \u201cIt didn\u2019t happen to me, but I didn\u2019t need to do it to put food on the table.\u201dAn angry Strauss-Kahn, who said he never organised the events himself but was a guest, rebutted some women\u2019s description of the \u201csoir\u00e9es\u201d as \u201cslaughter\u201d, \u201ckilling\u201d and \u201cbutchery\u201d. He said other women present had described him as courteous. He said the only time he spoke to an \u201cunabashed swinger\u201d about money was when he asked her if she wanted to come to Paris to see him and he would pay her expenses. He said the suggestion that he had to be brought \u201cfresh meat\u201d by businessmen friends was a disgrace. He insisted he never had sex with prostitutes because \u201cI prefer a party atmosphere before, during and after\u201d. He told one sexual partner: \u201cI have a horror of whores.\u201dHe said sex with strangers was 'the whole point' of his 'swinging lifestyle'Asked by the judge if it was not odd that he would have sex with strangers \u2013 such as one woman who was in fact a prostitute, with whom he had sex minutes after meeting her in the basement of a French restaurant \u2013 he said sex with strangers was \u201cthe whole point\u201d of his \u201cswinging lifestyle\u201d. Accused by Jade and another prostitutes of using force to subject them to a sex act they did not want, Strauss-Kahn said he had not noticed any refusal, and believed that \u201cno means no\u201d.Strauss-Kahn\u2019s lawyers appear confident that he will be acquitted on the pimping charge. The judges are likely to spend many weeks deliberating. Even if observers feel there is little evidence to convict Strauss-Kahn of pimping, his public image has suffered. He has been a political pariah since his arrest in New York four years ago over the alleged attempted rape of the hotel maid, Nafissatou Diallo, over which he settled a civil case after prosecutors dropped criminal charges. An online poll for the rightwing paper Le Figaro this week asked: \u201cDo you believe Strauss-Kahn when he says he didn\u2019t know the women he met were prostitutes?\u201d About 11% said yes, 88% said no. ", "tags": ["Dominique Strauss-Kahn", "France", "Women", "Society", "Prostitution", "Sex", "Law"], "title": "Dominique Strauss-Kahn's 'swinging lifestyle' shocks France"},{"date": "2015-03-18T19:23:30Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jessica Reed (Opinion, 14 March) offers a thoughtful view of the French-speakers\u2019 dilemma: she argues the case for linguistic diversity, while admitting the need for the language to preserve its special genius. Speakers of Breton, Occitan, Corsican and Catalan may read this with a hollow laugh. Millions of native French people are made to feel ashamed of speaking their native language. Since the 1790s, the French government has waged a campaign of extermination against the regional languages of France, first refusing to teach them, then starving them of funds and banning them in the public sphere. Their very existence is often denied \u2013 to the point where Breton and Occitan are claimed to be merely bad French, spoken by the ignorant. That they are still spoken by up to 60% in some localities is little short of a marvel. If Ms Pellerin (and Ms Reed) are serious about diversity, they might ask the French to stop quivering every time someone says le weekend, and instead comply with the terms of the\u00a0European charter for regional or minority languages (ECRML), signed in 1999, but not yet acted on.Dr Dick CollinsCrediton, Devon", "tags": ["France", "Languages"], "title": "How France stifles its regional languages | Letters"},{"date": "2015-03-13T11:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "I fell in love with food in Besan\u00e7on. I was about 19 and having failed miserably at being a draughtsman, I was looking for my destiny. I saw this restaurant called Le Palais de la Bi\u00e8re on a wonderful summer night. The ma\u00eetre d\u2019h\u00f4tel was carving meat and flamb\u00e9ing pancakes and there were lovers holding hands. It was so beautiful. Oh my God! I said I wanted to become the chef there. It didn\u2019t happen straight away though \u2013 I became the cleaner first.When I was 14, I saved all the money I made from selling the frogs, wild asparagus and mushrooms I collected so I could eat at Le Poker d\u2019As restaurant \u2013 my first great food experience in Besan\u00e7on. I felt rich. It\u2019s a very old restaurant and they cooked things very differently from my maman. I ordered veal kidneys, which were so different to the earthy food I had experienced at home. So many different layers of flavours and textures. I had a half a bottle of the expensive Hermitage red wine and I was a bit sozzled and had spent all my money but I was very happy.The Citadel is as beautiful as the pyramids. It\u2019s a Unesco world heritage site and it\u2019s extraordinary. It\u2019s humbling to see the work of the great master S\u00e9bastien Le Prestre de Vauban, who was an architect and a soldier at the time of Louis XIV and created these defences that encircle the city. There are also Roman ruins \u2013 Julius Caesar had a good fight with the Gauls here.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s streets are wide and open and there are bistros everywhere. They have spent millions of pounds on a new tramway, so you can park your car outside the centre and walk around. It\u2019s beautiful, with lots of old buildings made from the pale blue stone of the Franche-Comt\u00e9 region.My father designed a lovely map for me to hunt mushrooms when I was young and I used to go into the forest looking for morels. They grow under moss, so you have to hunt them by smell. They are conical with beautiful honeycombs and a distinct flavour. You must try cro\u00fbte aux morilles, a classic Franche-Comt\u00e9 mushroom dish.There are a lot of museums in Besan\u00e7on, for a small city \u2013 it is very cultural and people are turned on to the arts there. There is the Mus\u00e9e de la R\u00e9sistance et de la D\u00e9portation, which is about the local resistance during the second world war. My father helped to keep German prisoners there. To see the museum is extraordinary for me. There\u2019s also the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts, which locals call the \u201clittle Louvre\u201d.The whole landscape defines its gastronomy. We have the Montb\u00e9liarde cows, which eat wild herbs and flowers, making some of the richest milk and Comt\u00e9 cheese, the king of the many marvellous Franche-Comt\u00e9 cheeses.Go to Le Vin et l\u2019Assiette, which dates back to the 15th century, to eat. Bernard Leroy, who is a friend of mine, owns this little restaurant. He has a big wine cellar, too. It\u2019s just him, his chef and his wife. You will find that old French hospitality there.I used to hang out often at Brasserie Du Commerce \u2013 a good place to go for a drink. It\u2019s a beautiful 1870s building with an art deco front. The inside is ancient, beautiful and very grand.There is lots to see and do outside of the city. The Royal Saltworks in nearby Arc-et-Senans is another Unesco world heritage site where you can see how salt was such a valuable commodity during the rein of Louis XV. In the nearby town of Arbois you can see Louis Pasteur\u2019s house.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s nickname is the Green City. We have the rugged Jura mountains to the south east and the vineyards to the south. It\u2019s a very strong wine region with the Savagnin and Poulsard wines well worth a try.Besan\u00e7on has a lot of hotels, all quite affordable. I like H\u00f4tel Le Sauvage on the way to the Citadel, about five minutes away from La Porte Noire. It\u2019s a former monastery, and very cosy. I\u2019d also recommend H\u00f4tel De Paris and H\u00f4tel Vauban.I love going back. I visit Montfaucon, a little village that used to be an old fort, built during the 1870 (Franco-Prussian) war. From there, you can see the whole of Besan\u00e7on, the Doubs river, the Citadel, the city and the mountains. There\u2019s so much beauty there.\u2022 Raymond Blanc co-hosts Kew on a Plate, from Monday 16 March, 9pm, BBC2", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Raymond Blanc", "Food & drink", "French food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Chef Raymond Blanc on his favourite home town places: Besan\u00e7on, France"},{"date": "2015-02-13T19:35:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is a saga of money, fame and destitute women ferried to luxury locations for sex with powerful men, against a backdrop of economic deprivation and social misery. France has been shaken this week by harrowing testimony from a trial in Lille that not only put in the dock Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former International Monetary Fund chief and one-time French presidential hopeful, but also examined a much wider, depressing picture of poverty, women submitted to sex acts against their will and alleged pimps who referred to them as \u201clivestock\u201d.In court, Strauss-Kahn, 65, the one-time hero of the French left, flatly denied the accusation he aided and abetted the prostitution of seven women \u2013 a charge of \u201caggravated pimping\u201d that carries a 10-year prison sentence. He said he never knew or suspected there were any prostitutes among the many women brought to him by regional French businessmen friends for group sex, at what he termed \u201cfestive afternoons\u201d in Europe and the US while he was head of the IMF.But after three days of distressing testimony at a court in Lille \u2013 during which two prostitutes said Strauss-Kahn had subjected them to a sex act they did not want, and he self-assuredly explained his appetite for group sex and how his sexual style was \u201crougher than the average man\u201d \u2013 France began considering the wider implications of the vast trial known as the \u201cCarlton Affair\u201d, after the luxury hotel in Lille in which Strauss-Kahn has never set foot, but which was at the centre of the first investigation.Strauss-Kahn insisted he never had sex with prostitutes because 'I prefer a party atmosphere before, during and after'The grim stories of what the newspaper Lib\u00e9ration called \u201cthe terrible daily reality\u201d of prostitutes that emerged in the broader Lille trial have shocked France and could push the socialist government, which claims it wants to \u201cabolish\u201d prostitution, to resurrect its plans to criminalise paying for sex \u2013 a law that got through parliament but has stalled in the senate. The court is trying 13 men accused of pimping, including Strauss-Kahn. Most of the accused have no connection to the former IMF director. But two businessmen and a senior Lille police chief are accused of recruiting and paying prostitutes for \u201csoir\u00e9es\u201d with Strauss-Kahn in order to curry favour with him. They deny the charges and say Strauss-Kahn never knew the women were paid because they kept it secret.The testimony of the prostitutes, some of whom were sexually abused as children, has highlighted France\u2019s social and economic problems. Destitute and jobless in the area around the northern city of Lille which has been hit by some of France\u2019s worst unemployment, some of the women went to work just over the Belgian border where brothels are tolerated by law. Jade, who would later be recruited by businessmen to meet Strauss-Kahn in Belgium, Paris and the US, described how she worked at the Belgian \u201cClub Madame\u201d for Dominique Alderweireld, who refers to himself as Dodo the Pimp and is among the accused on trial. She said 12-13 women slept in bunk beds in a kitchen and had to be available at all times. She preferred a sleeping bag in the cellar, but slept dressed in her work outfit because if the front door rang in the night, they would all have to rush upstairs to be exhibited like \u201cmeat on hooks\u201d. She described working day and night, once while \u201cvomiting blood\u201d. Surveillance showed Dodo the Pimp referring to the prostitutes as \u201clivestock\u201d. In her cellar, Jade said she didn\u2019t have a television so she didn\u2019t recognise Strauss-Kahn when she was first taken to him, only seeing him in the press later and exclaiming: \u201cThat\u2019s him with clothes on.\u201d She spoke English, which came in handy at US immigration on a trip to see Strauss-Kahn in Washington, when border staff found it odd that the businessmen and Jade had come all that way for only a couple of nights.Another detail in court was the seeming power trip of the businessmen who delivered women to Strauss-Kahn. \u201cAh, isn\u2019t power great?\u201d one businessman allegedly said during one \u201csoir\u00e9e\u201d where Strauss-Kahn was present. Another, Fabrice Paszkowski \u2013 a Lille entrepreneur who Strauss-Kahn described as a very good friend \u2013 told one woman that he wanted to organise \u201cgiant orgies at the Elys\u00e9e\u201d, presumably when Strauss-Kahn became president of France. One woman told the inquiry she felt women present at one group sex event were used as mere \u201creceptacles\u201d. Another woman participant, asked about others suffering during the group sex, told the inquiry: \u201cIt didn\u2019t happen to me, but I didn\u2019t need to do it to put food on the table.\u201dAn angry Strauss-Kahn, who said he never organised the events himself but was a guest, rebutted some women\u2019s description of the \u201csoir\u00e9es\u201d as \u201cslaughter\u201d, \u201ckilling\u201d and \u201cbutchery\u201d. He said other women present had described him as courteous. He said the only time he spoke to an \u201cunabashed swinger\u201d about money was when he asked her if she wanted to come to Paris to see him and he would pay her expenses. He said the suggestion that he had to be brought \u201cfresh meat\u201d by businessmen friends was a disgrace. He insisted he never had sex with prostitutes because \u201cI prefer a party atmosphere before, during and after\u201d. He told one sexual partner: \u201cI have a horror of whores.\u201dHe said sex with strangers was 'the whole point' of his 'swinging lifestyle'Asked by the judge if it was not odd that he would have sex with strangers \u2013 such as one woman who was in fact a prostitute, with whom he had sex minutes after meeting her in the basement of a French restaurant \u2013 he said sex with strangers was \u201cthe whole point\u201d of his \u201cswinging lifestyle\u201d. Accused by Jade and another prostitutes of using force to subject them to a sex act they did not want, Strauss-Kahn said he had not noticed any refusal, and believed that \u201cno means no\u201d.Strauss-Kahn\u2019s lawyers appear confident that he will be acquitted on the pimping charge. The judges are likely to spend many weeks deliberating. Even if observers feel there is little evidence to convict Strauss-Kahn of pimping, his public image has suffered. He has been a political pariah since his arrest in New York four years ago over the alleged attempted rape of the hotel maid, Nafissatou Diallo, over which he settled a civil case after prosecutors dropped criminal charges. An online poll for the rightwing paper Le Figaro this week asked: \u201cDo you believe Strauss-Kahn when he says he didn\u2019t know the women he met were prostitutes?\u201d About 11% said yes, 88% said no. ", "tags": ["Dominique Strauss-Kahn", "France", "Women", "Society", "Prostitution", "Sex", "Law"], "title": "Dominique Strauss-Kahn's 'swinging lifestyle' shocks France"},{"date": "2015-01-24T06:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "So, where?If you come from Geneva, Valmorel is the first ski resort you reach in the Tarentaise valley in France\u2019s Savoie region. But this intimate little village is often overlooked by British skiers in their rush towards the bigger Trois Vall\u00e9es and Paradiski resorts. It\u2019s the main village of the Grand Domaine ski area, which includes beginner slopes in the hamlet of Doucy-Combelouvi\u00e8re. Ski to the Col de la Madeleine \u2013 one of the Tour de France\u2019s toughest climbs \u2013 and you end up in the linked resort of Saint-Fran\u00e7ois-Longchamp in the Maurienne valley. Related: Your guide to new ski holidays for the 2014-15 season Why try it?Created in 1976 at 1,400m, Valmorel is one of the few purpose-built resorts in France that\u2019s not a concrete eyesore. Learning from earlier mistakes, planners stuck to classic Savoyard design: low-rise wooden buildings and sloping slate roofs. Most accommodation is close to the lifts, and free eco-shuttle buses connect outlying hamlets. Le Bourg, the pedestrianised high street, is full of shops, restaurants and bars. It\u2019s friendly, relaxed, predominantly French and very family-focused. Club Piou-Piou in the centre takes children from 18 months to six years, and there\u2019s a family snowzone with snow park, picnic areas and pedestrian access.Mountain lowdownIt\u2019s blue and green heaven for beginners and low intermediates, with mainly wide motorway runs from 2,030m in Valmorel (and up to 2,300m in Saint-Fran\u00e7ois-Longchamp). Novices have six areas, including two just for children. There are snow parks graded from green to black, including the very tricky black Combe du Riondet snowcross. Off-piste skiers wanting a challenge can hire a guide to tackle the Massif de la Lauzi\u00e8re, which is gaining a reputation among expert skiers who want a mountainside pretty much to themselves.And apart from skiing?There\u2019s no shortage of other activities. Hurtle down the slopes on an airboard (head first on short fat lilo), a snowskate (skateboard on snow) or in a snake gliss (train of toboggans). Go for a snowshoe trek through the forest near L\u2019Aigle Blanc, or try paragliding on skis on a tandem flight with Here We Go Parapente. If that all sounds too energetic, enjoy a massage, sauna or hammam (from \u20ac14) at the Valmoforme spa.Apr\u00e8s any good?For a small village, Valmorel has a decent choice of bars in Le Bourg. Neighbours La Source, Le Petit Savoyard and Le Petit Prince all have terraces for the 4pm crowd, many of whom return in the evening. Le Perce-Neige has snuggly seats outside huddled around heaters. The buzziest is Jimbo Lolo, which serves a mix of Tex-Mex and tapas, with a jungle theme and wooden swings round the bar. And the Sound Pub & Club, which is open till 5am, is a favourite with off-duty bar staff. Related: Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France Where to eatSki Roc in Le Bourg is one of the best and busiest restaurants in the village. It serves the usual Savoyard dishes, but with some innovative touches \u2013 a tartiflette ravioli, for one. It has sister restaurant at the top of the Altispace chairlift, Les Voiles du Nant, which does excellent burgers. And L\u2019Altipiano, at the top of the Pierrafort cable car, does a great reblochonnade \u2013 a version of tartiflette with melted reblochon cheese and ham.Where to stayLa Grange aux F\u00e9es is a stylish new self-catering residence beside the Lanchettes chairlift, with warm wood and exposed stone interiors, plus an indoor pool and hot tubs (seven nights from \u00a3224pp including Eurotunnel crossing with peakretreats.co.uk). Valmorel\u2019s only hotel is the cosy Hotel du Bourg (seven nights from \u00a3393pp including Eurotunnel crossing), whose new owner is updating its 1970s decor.The nitty grittyValmorel has 165km of pistes; 50 lifts; highest altitude 2,550m.Good for families, authentic French charm, value, tranquillityLift pass adult \u00a3164 a week; child \u00a3107Beer \u20ac5.70Runs 14 green, 25 blue, 11 red, 5 blackLimitations Although Valmorel\u2019s naturally cold climate keeps the snow cannons busy, there are quite a few icy and patchy pistes, unless there\u2019s been a huge snowfall.Getting there Fly or take the Eurostar to Geneva, two hours away; the nearest railway station to Valmorel is Mo\u00fbtiers.\u2022 Further information at valmorel.com and savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Valmorel, France"},{"date": "2015-03-18T19:23:30Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jessica Reed (Opinion, 14 March) offers a thoughtful view of the French-speakers\u2019 dilemma: she argues the case for linguistic diversity, while admitting the need for the language to preserve its special genius. Speakers of Breton, Occitan, Corsican and Catalan may read this with a hollow laugh. Millions of native French people are made to feel ashamed of speaking their native language. Since the 1790s, the French government has waged a campaign of extermination against the regional languages of France, first refusing to teach them, then starving them of funds and banning them in the public sphere. Their very existence is often denied \u2013 to the point where Breton and Occitan are claimed to be merely bad French, spoken by the ignorant. That they are still spoken by up to 60% in some localities is little short of a marvel. If Ms Pellerin (and Ms Reed) are serious about diversity, they might ask the French to stop quivering every time someone says le weekend, and instead comply with the terms of the\u00a0European charter for regional or minority languages (ECRML), signed in 1999, but not yet acted on.Dr Dick CollinsCrediton, Devon", "tags": ["France", "Languages"], "title": "How France stifles its regional languages | Letters"},{"date": "2015-03-13T11:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "I fell in love with food in Besan\u00e7on. I was about 19 and having failed miserably at being a draughtsman, I was looking for my destiny. I saw this restaurant called Le Palais de la Bi\u00e8re on a wonderful summer night. The ma\u00eetre d\u2019h\u00f4tel was carving meat and flamb\u00e9ing pancakes and there were lovers holding hands. It was so beautiful. Oh my God! I said I wanted to become the chef there. It didn\u2019t happen straight away though \u2013 I became the cleaner first.When I was 14, I saved all the money I made from selling the frogs, wild asparagus and mushrooms I collected so I could eat at Le Poker d\u2019As restaurant \u2013 my first great food experience in Besan\u00e7on. I felt rich. It\u2019s a very old restaurant and they cooked things very differently from my maman. I ordered veal kidneys, which were so different to the earthy food I had experienced at home. So many different layers of flavours and textures. I had a half a bottle of the expensive Hermitage red wine and I was a bit sozzled and had spent all my money but I was very happy.The Citadel is as beautiful as the pyramids. It\u2019s a Unesco world heritage site and it\u2019s extraordinary. It\u2019s humbling to see the work of the great master S\u00e9bastien Le Prestre de Vauban, who was an architect and a soldier at the time of Louis XIV and created these defences that encircle the city. There are also Roman ruins \u2013 Julius Caesar had a good fight with the Gauls here.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s streets are wide and open and there are bistros everywhere. They have spent millions of pounds on a new tramway, so you can park your car outside the centre and walk around. It\u2019s beautiful, with lots of old buildings made from the pale blue stone of the Franche-Comt\u00e9 region.My father designed a lovely map for me to hunt mushrooms when I was young and I used to go into the forest looking for morels. They grow under moss, so you have to hunt them by smell. They are conical with beautiful honeycombs and a distinct flavour. You must try cro\u00fbte aux morilles, a classic Franche-Comt\u00e9 mushroom dish.There are a lot of museums in Besan\u00e7on, for a small city \u2013 it is very cultural and people are turned on to the arts there. There is the Mus\u00e9e de la R\u00e9sistance et de la D\u00e9portation, which is about the local resistance during the second world war. My father helped to keep German prisoners there. To see the museum is extraordinary for me. There\u2019s also the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts, which locals call the \u201clittle Louvre\u201d.The whole landscape defines its gastronomy. We have the Montb\u00e9liarde cows, which eat wild herbs and flowers, making some of the richest milk and Comt\u00e9 cheese, the king of the many marvellous Franche-Comt\u00e9 cheeses.Go to Le Vin et l\u2019Assiette, which dates back to the 15th century, to eat. Bernard Leroy, who is a friend of mine, owns this little restaurant. He has a big wine cellar, too. It\u2019s just him, his chef and his wife. You will find that old French hospitality there.I used to hang out often at Brasserie Du Commerce \u2013 a good place to go for a drink. It\u2019s a beautiful 1870s building with an art deco front. The inside is ancient, beautiful and very grand.There is lots to see and do outside of the city. The Royal Saltworks in nearby Arc-et-Senans is another Unesco world heritage site where you can see how salt was such a valuable commodity during the rein of Louis XV. In the nearby town of Arbois you can see Louis Pasteur\u2019s house.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s nickname is the Green City. We have the rugged Jura mountains to the south east and the vineyards to the south. It\u2019s a very strong wine region with the Savagnin and Poulsard wines well worth a try.Besan\u00e7on has a lot of hotels, all quite affordable. I like H\u00f4tel Le Sauvage on the way to the Citadel, about five minutes away from La Porte Noire. It\u2019s a former monastery, and very cosy. I\u2019d also recommend H\u00f4tel De Paris and H\u00f4tel Vauban.I love going back. I visit Montfaucon, a little village that used to be an old fort, built during the 1870 (Franco-Prussian) war. From there, you can see the whole of Besan\u00e7on, the Doubs river, the Citadel, the city and the mountains. There\u2019s so much beauty there.\u2022 Raymond Blanc co-hosts Kew on a Plate, from Monday 16 March, 9pm, BBC2", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Raymond Blanc", "Food & drink", "French food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Chef Raymond Blanc on his favourite home town places: Besan\u00e7on, France"},{"date": "2015-02-13T19:35:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is a saga of money, fame and destitute women ferried to luxury locations for sex with powerful men, against a backdrop of economic deprivation and social misery. France has been shaken this week by harrowing testimony from a trial in Lille that not only put in the dock Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former International Monetary Fund chief and one-time French presidential hopeful, but also examined a much wider, depressing picture of poverty, women submitted to sex acts against their will and alleged pimps who referred to them as \u201clivestock\u201d.In court, Strauss-Kahn, 65, the one-time hero of the French left, flatly denied the accusation he aided and abetted the prostitution of seven women \u2013 a charge of \u201caggravated pimping\u201d that carries a 10-year prison sentence. He said he never knew or suspected there were any prostitutes among the many women brought to him by regional French businessmen friends for group sex, at what he termed \u201cfestive afternoons\u201d in Europe and the US while he was head of the IMF.But after three days of distressing testimony at a court in Lille \u2013 during which two prostitutes said Strauss-Kahn had subjected them to a sex act they did not want, and he self-assuredly explained his appetite for group sex and how his sexual style was \u201crougher than the average man\u201d \u2013 France began considering the wider implications of the vast trial known as the \u201cCarlton Affair\u201d, after the luxury hotel in Lille in which Strauss-Kahn has never set foot, but which was at the centre of the first investigation.Strauss-Kahn insisted he never had sex with prostitutes because 'I prefer a party atmosphere before, during and after'The grim stories of what the newspaper Lib\u00e9ration called \u201cthe terrible daily reality\u201d of prostitutes that emerged in the broader Lille trial have shocked France and could push the socialist government, which claims it wants to \u201cabolish\u201d prostitution, to resurrect its plans to criminalise paying for sex \u2013 a law that got through parliament but has stalled in the senate. The court is trying 13 men accused of pimping, including Strauss-Kahn. Most of the accused have no connection to the former IMF director. But two businessmen and a senior Lille police chief are accused of recruiting and paying prostitutes for \u201csoir\u00e9es\u201d with Strauss-Kahn in order to curry favour with him. They deny the charges and say Strauss-Kahn never knew the women were paid because they kept it secret.The testimony of the prostitutes, some of whom were sexually abused as children, has highlighted France\u2019s social and economic problems. Destitute and jobless in the area around the northern city of Lille which has been hit by some of France\u2019s worst unemployment, some of the women went to work just over the Belgian border where brothels are tolerated by law. Jade, who would later be recruited by businessmen to meet Strauss-Kahn in Belgium, Paris and the US, described how she worked at the Belgian \u201cClub Madame\u201d for Dominique Alderweireld, who refers to himself as Dodo the Pimp and is among the accused on trial. She said 12-13 women slept in bunk beds in a kitchen and had to be available at all times. She preferred a sleeping bag in the cellar, but slept dressed in her work outfit because if the front door rang in the night, they would all have to rush upstairs to be exhibited like \u201cmeat on hooks\u201d. She described working day and night, once while \u201cvomiting blood\u201d. Surveillance showed Dodo the Pimp referring to the prostitutes as \u201clivestock\u201d. In her cellar, Jade said she didn\u2019t have a television so she didn\u2019t recognise Strauss-Kahn when she was first taken to him, only seeing him in the press later and exclaiming: \u201cThat\u2019s him with clothes on.\u201d She spoke English, which came in handy at US immigration on a trip to see Strauss-Kahn in Washington, when border staff found it odd that the businessmen and Jade had come all that way for only a couple of nights.Another detail in court was the seeming power trip of the businessmen who delivered women to Strauss-Kahn. \u201cAh, isn\u2019t power great?\u201d one businessman allegedly said during one \u201csoir\u00e9e\u201d where Strauss-Kahn was present. Another, Fabrice Paszkowski \u2013 a Lille entrepreneur who Strauss-Kahn described as a very good friend \u2013 told one woman that he wanted to organise \u201cgiant orgies at the Elys\u00e9e\u201d, presumably when Strauss-Kahn became president of France. One woman told the inquiry she felt women present at one group sex event were used as mere \u201creceptacles\u201d. Another woman participant, asked about others suffering during the group sex, told the inquiry: \u201cIt didn\u2019t happen to me, but I didn\u2019t need to do it to put food on the table.\u201dAn angry Strauss-Kahn, who said he never organised the events himself but was a guest, rebutted some women\u2019s description of the \u201csoir\u00e9es\u201d as \u201cslaughter\u201d, \u201ckilling\u201d and \u201cbutchery\u201d. He said other women present had described him as courteous. He said the only time he spoke to an \u201cunabashed swinger\u201d about money was when he asked her if she wanted to come to Paris to see him and he would pay her expenses. He said the suggestion that he had to be brought \u201cfresh meat\u201d by businessmen friends was a disgrace. He insisted he never had sex with prostitutes because \u201cI prefer a party atmosphere before, during and after\u201d. He told one sexual partner: \u201cI have a horror of whores.\u201dHe said sex with strangers was 'the whole point' of his 'swinging lifestyle'Asked by the judge if it was not odd that he would have sex with strangers \u2013 such as one woman who was in fact a prostitute, with whom he had sex minutes after meeting her in the basement of a French restaurant \u2013 he said sex with strangers was \u201cthe whole point\u201d of his \u201cswinging lifestyle\u201d. Accused by Jade and another prostitutes of using force to subject them to a sex act they did not want, Strauss-Kahn said he had not noticed any refusal, and believed that \u201cno means no\u201d.Strauss-Kahn\u2019s lawyers appear confident that he will be acquitted on the pimping charge. The judges are likely to spend many weeks deliberating. Even if observers feel there is little evidence to convict Strauss-Kahn of pimping, his public image has suffered. He has been a political pariah since his arrest in New York four years ago over the alleged attempted rape of the hotel maid, Nafissatou Diallo, over which he settled a civil case after prosecutors dropped criminal charges. An online poll for the rightwing paper Le Figaro this week asked: \u201cDo you believe Strauss-Kahn when he says he didn\u2019t know the women he met were prostitutes?\u201d About 11% said yes, 88% said no. ", "tags": ["Dominique Strauss-Kahn", "France", "Women", "Society", "Prostitution", "Sex", "Law"], "title": "Dominique Strauss-Kahn's 'swinging lifestyle' shocks France"},{"date": "2015-01-24T06:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "So, where?If you come from Geneva, Valmorel is the first ski resort you reach in the Tarentaise valley in France\u2019s Savoie region. But this intimate little village is often overlooked by British skiers in their rush towards the bigger Trois Vall\u00e9es and Paradiski resorts. It\u2019s the main village of the Grand Domaine ski area, which includes beginner slopes in the hamlet of Doucy-Combelouvi\u00e8re. Ski to the Col de la Madeleine \u2013 one of the Tour de France\u2019s toughest climbs \u2013 and you end up in the linked resort of Saint-Fran\u00e7ois-Longchamp in the Maurienne valley. Related: Your guide to new ski holidays for the 2014-15 season Why try it?Created in 1976 at 1,400m, Valmorel is one of the few purpose-built resorts in France that\u2019s not a concrete eyesore. Learning from earlier mistakes, planners stuck to classic Savoyard design: low-rise wooden buildings and sloping slate roofs. Most accommodation is close to the lifts, and free eco-shuttle buses connect outlying hamlets. Le Bourg, the pedestrianised high street, is full of shops, restaurants and bars. It\u2019s friendly, relaxed, predominantly French and very family-focused. Club Piou-Piou in the centre takes children from 18 months to six years, and there\u2019s a family snowzone with snow park, picnic areas and pedestrian access.Mountain lowdownIt\u2019s blue and green heaven for beginners and low intermediates, with mainly wide motorway runs from 2,030m in Valmorel (and up to 2,300m in Saint-Fran\u00e7ois-Longchamp). Novices have six areas, including two just for children. There are snow parks graded from green to black, including the very tricky black Combe du Riondet snowcross. Off-piste skiers wanting a challenge can hire a guide to tackle the Massif de la Lauzi\u00e8re, which is gaining a reputation among expert skiers who want a mountainside pretty much to themselves.And apart from skiing?There\u2019s no shortage of other activities. Hurtle down the slopes on an airboard (head first on short fat lilo), a snowskate (skateboard on snow) or in a snake gliss (train of toboggans). Go for a snowshoe trek through the forest near L\u2019Aigle Blanc, or try paragliding on skis on a tandem flight with Here We Go Parapente. If that all sounds too energetic, enjoy a massage, sauna or hammam (from \u20ac14) at the Valmoforme spa.Apr\u00e8s any good?For a small village, Valmorel has a decent choice of bars in Le Bourg. Neighbours La Source, Le Petit Savoyard and Le Petit Prince all have terraces for the 4pm crowd, many of whom return in the evening. Le Perce-Neige has snuggly seats outside huddled around heaters. The buzziest is Jimbo Lolo, which serves a mix of Tex-Mex and tapas, with a jungle theme and wooden swings round the bar. And the Sound Pub & Club, which is open till 5am, is a favourite with off-duty bar staff. Related: Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France Where to eatSki Roc in Le Bourg is one of the best and busiest restaurants in the village. It serves the usual Savoyard dishes, but with some innovative touches \u2013 a tartiflette ravioli, for one. It has sister restaurant at the top of the Altispace chairlift, Les Voiles du Nant, which does excellent burgers. And L\u2019Altipiano, at the top of the Pierrafort cable car, does a great reblochonnade \u2013 a version of tartiflette with melted reblochon cheese and ham.Where to stayLa Grange aux F\u00e9es is a stylish new self-catering residence beside the Lanchettes chairlift, with warm wood and exposed stone interiors, plus an indoor pool and hot tubs (seven nights from \u00a3224pp including Eurotunnel crossing with peakretreats.co.uk). Valmorel\u2019s only hotel is the cosy Hotel du Bourg (seven nights from \u00a3393pp including Eurotunnel crossing), whose new owner is updating its 1970s decor.The nitty grittyValmorel has 165km of pistes; 50 lifts; highest altitude 2,550m.Good for families, authentic French charm, value, tranquillityLift pass adult \u00a3164 a week; child \u00a3107Beer \u20ac5.70Runs 14 green, 25 blue, 11 red, 5 blackLimitations Although Valmorel\u2019s naturally cold climate keeps the snow cannons busy, there are quite a few icy and patchy pistes, unless there\u2019s been a huge snowfall.Getting there Fly or take the Eurostar to Geneva, two hours away; the nearest railway station to Valmorel is Mo\u00fbtiers.\u2022 Further information at valmorel.com and savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Valmorel, France"},{"date": "2015-03-29T05:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Why go?With its Belle Epoque hotels, bathing huts and air of faded grandeur, the seaside town of Deauville is the French answer to Brighton. But instead of beach volleyball you\u2019ll find boules, and instead of fish and chip shops, chic brasseries serving oysters and langoustines. Fashionable Deauville was once a favourite haunt of Napoleon and Coco Chanel, and a busy calendar of horseracing events, polo matches and the annual Deauville American Film Festival ensure that it\u2019s still on the circuit for high society. New flights being launched this year by Ryanair (from 3 April) and Flybe (from 22 June) will make it easier than ever for us to join them.What to doTake in the sea air on the Promenade des Planches \u2013 the famous boardwalk \u2013 or go window-shopping in the ritzy boutiques around Place Morny. Catch a ferry across the River Touques to the jolly resort of Trouville, which has a daily fish market, beachfront casino and regular exhibitions at the Villa Montebello, former summer residence of Napoleon. The D-Day beaches and attractive port of Honfleur are within easy striking distance.Where to eatNo visit to this stretch of coast is complete without a bowl of moules marini\u00e8re in the quintessentially French Les Vapeurs, a seafood brasserie in Trouville (lesvapeurs.fr).Where to stayLa Ceris\u00e9e is a charming little B&B in the centre of town with just two guest rooms, including a self-contained cottage with its own kitchen (from \u20ac130, chambre-hotes-deauville.com). Les Manoirs de Tourgeville is a cosseting hotel set in beautiful parkland a few miles inland (from \u20ac170, lesmanoirstourgeville.com).Insider tipThe best place to pick up specialities, such as camembert and cider, is at the food market on Place du March\u00e9, says Yves-Marie Guguen of Les Manoirs de Tourgeville: \u201cTraditional markets are held on Tuesday, Friday and Saturday and they sell local produce as well as arts and crafts.\u201dHOME Peak District adventure weekend: Lost Earth Adventures is holding two activity weekends in the Peak District in May, which will give families the chance to try their hand at rock climbing, gorge scrambling and mountain biking. The weekends, on 2-4 May and 22-24 May, cost \u00a3249pp and include all activities, some meals, plus three nights\u2019 accommodation (lostearthadventures.co.uk).AWAY Living history in Brussels: Celebrate the bicentenary of Wellington\u2019s victory at the Battle of Waterloo this year with a stay at Hougoumont in Belgium \u2013 the site of Napoleon\u2019s final defeat. The Landmark Trust has restored a former gardener\u2019s house situated on this historic estate near Brussels and is offering stays in a two-bedroom apartment from \u00a3482 for four nights (landmarktrust.org.uk).Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter\u00a0@ObsMagazine", "tags": ["Travel", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Peak District holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "England holidays", "Brussels holidays", "Belgium holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: Deauville, France, and the week\u2019s best deals"},{"date": "2015-03-18T19:23:30Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jessica Reed (Opinion, 14 March) offers a thoughtful view of the French-speakers\u2019 dilemma: she argues the case for linguistic diversity, while admitting the need for the language to preserve its special genius. Speakers of Breton, Occitan, Corsican and Catalan may read this with a hollow laugh. Millions of native French people are made to feel ashamed of speaking their native language. Since the 1790s, the French government has waged a campaign of extermination against the regional languages of France, first refusing to teach them, then starving them of funds and banning them in the public sphere. Their very existence is often denied \u2013 to the point where Breton and Occitan are claimed to be merely bad French, spoken by the ignorant. That they are still spoken by up to 60% in some localities is little short of a marvel. If Ms Pellerin (and Ms Reed) are serious about diversity, they might ask the French to stop quivering every time someone says le weekend, and instead comply with the terms of the\u00a0European charter for regional or minority languages (ECRML), signed in 1999, but not yet acted on.Dr Dick CollinsCrediton, Devon", "tags": ["France", "Languages"], "title": "How France stifles its regional languages | Letters"},{"date": "2015-03-13T11:30:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "I fell in love with food in Besan\u00e7on. I was about 19 and having failed miserably at being a draughtsman, I was looking for my destiny. I saw this restaurant called Le Palais de la Bi\u00e8re on a wonderful summer night. The ma\u00eetre d\u2019h\u00f4tel was carving meat and flamb\u00e9ing pancakes and there were lovers holding hands. It was so beautiful. Oh my God! I said I wanted to become the chef there. It didn\u2019t happen straight away though \u2013 I became the cleaner first.When I was 14, I saved all the money I made from selling the frogs, wild asparagus and mushrooms I collected so I could eat at Le Poker d\u2019As restaurant \u2013 my first great food experience in Besan\u00e7on. I felt rich. It\u2019s a very old restaurant and they cooked things very differently from my maman. I ordered veal kidneys, which were so different to the earthy food I had experienced at home. So many different layers of flavours and textures. I had a half a bottle of the expensive Hermitage red wine and I was a bit sozzled and had spent all my money but I was very happy.The Citadel is as beautiful as the pyramids. It\u2019s a Unesco world heritage site and it\u2019s extraordinary. It\u2019s humbling to see the work of the great master S\u00e9bastien Le Prestre de Vauban, who was an architect and a soldier at the time of Louis XIV and created these defences that encircle the city. There are also Roman ruins \u2013 Julius Caesar had a good fight with the Gauls here.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s streets are wide and open and there are bistros everywhere. They have spent millions of pounds on a new tramway, so you can park your car outside the centre and walk around. It\u2019s beautiful, with lots of old buildings made from the pale blue stone of the Franche-Comt\u00e9 region.My father designed a lovely map for me to hunt mushrooms when I was young and I used to go into the forest looking for morels. They grow under moss, so you have to hunt them by smell. They are conical with beautiful honeycombs and a distinct flavour. You must try cro\u00fbte aux morilles, a classic Franche-Comt\u00e9 mushroom dish.There are a lot of museums in Besan\u00e7on, for a small city \u2013 it is very cultural and people are turned on to the arts there. There is the Mus\u00e9e de la R\u00e9sistance et de la D\u00e9portation, which is about the local resistance during the second world war. My father helped to keep German prisoners there. To see the museum is extraordinary for me. There\u2019s also the Mus\u00e9e des Beaux-Arts, which locals call the \u201clittle Louvre\u201d.The whole landscape defines its gastronomy. We have the Montb\u00e9liarde cows, which eat wild herbs and flowers, making some of the richest milk and Comt\u00e9 cheese, the king of the many marvellous Franche-Comt\u00e9 cheeses.Go to Le Vin et l\u2019Assiette, which dates back to the 15th century, to eat. Bernard Leroy, who is a friend of mine, owns this little restaurant. He has a big wine cellar, too. It\u2019s just him, his chef and his wife. You will find that old French hospitality there.I used to hang out often at Brasserie Du Commerce \u2013 a good place to go for a drink. It\u2019s a beautiful 1870s building with an art deco front. The inside is ancient, beautiful and very grand.There is lots to see and do outside of the city. The Royal Saltworks in nearby Arc-et-Senans is another Unesco world heritage site where you can see how salt was such a valuable commodity during the rein of Louis XV. In the nearby town of Arbois you can see Louis Pasteur\u2019s house.Besan\u00e7on\u2019s nickname is the Green City. We have the rugged Jura mountains to the south east and the vineyards to the south. It\u2019s a very strong wine region with the Savagnin and Poulsard wines well worth a try.Besan\u00e7on has a lot of hotels, all quite affordable. I like H\u00f4tel Le Sauvage on the way to the Citadel, about five minutes away from La Porte Noire. It\u2019s a former monastery, and very cosy. I\u2019d also recommend H\u00f4tel De Paris and H\u00f4tel Vauban.I love going back. I visit Montfaucon, a little village that used to be an old fort, built during the 1870 (Franco-Prussian) war. From there, you can see the whole of Besan\u00e7on, the Doubs river, the Citadel, the city and the mountains. There\u2019s so much beauty there.\u2022 Raymond Blanc co-hosts Kew on a Plate, from Monday 16 March, 9pm, BBC2", "tags": ["France holidays", "Food and drink", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Raymond Blanc", "Food & drink", "French food and drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Chef Raymond Blanc on his favourite home town places: Besan\u00e7on, France"},{"date": "2015-02-13T19:35:29Z", "country": "france", "content": "It is a saga of money, fame and destitute women ferried to luxury locations for sex with powerful men, against a backdrop of economic deprivation and social misery. France has been shaken this week by harrowing testimony from a trial in Lille that not only put in the dock Dominique Strauss-Kahn, the former International Monetary Fund chief and one-time French presidential hopeful, but also examined a much wider, depressing picture of poverty, women submitted to sex acts against their will and alleged pimps who referred to them as \u201clivestock\u201d.In court, Strauss-Kahn, 65, the one-time hero of the French left, flatly denied the accusation he aided and abetted the prostitution of seven women \u2013 a charge of \u201caggravated pimping\u201d that carries a 10-year prison sentence. He said he never knew or suspected there were any prostitutes among the many women brought to him by regional French businessmen friends for group sex, at what he termed \u201cfestive afternoons\u201d in Europe and the US while he was head of the IMF.But after three days of distressing testimony at a court in Lille \u2013 during which two prostitutes said Strauss-Kahn had subjected them to a sex act they did not want, and he self-assuredly explained his appetite for group sex and how his sexual style was \u201crougher than the average man\u201d \u2013 France began considering the wider implications of the vast trial known as the \u201cCarlton Affair\u201d, after the luxury hotel in Lille in which Strauss-Kahn has never set foot, but which was at the centre of the first investigation.Strauss-Kahn insisted he never had sex with prostitutes because 'I prefer a party atmosphere before, during and after'The grim stories of what the newspaper Lib\u00e9ration called \u201cthe terrible daily reality\u201d of prostitutes that emerged in the broader Lille trial have shocked France and could push the socialist government, which claims it wants to \u201cabolish\u201d prostitution, to resurrect its plans to criminalise paying for sex \u2013 a law that got through parliament but has stalled in the senate. The court is trying 13 men accused of pimping, including Strauss-Kahn. Most of the accused have no connection to the former IMF director. But two businessmen and a senior Lille police chief are accused of recruiting and paying prostitutes for \u201csoir\u00e9es\u201d with Strauss-Kahn in order to curry favour with him. They deny the charges and say Strauss-Kahn never knew the women were paid because they kept it secret.The testimony of the prostitutes, some of whom were sexually abused as children, has highlighted France\u2019s social and economic problems. Destitute and jobless in the area around the northern city of Lille which has been hit by some of France\u2019s worst unemployment, some of the women went to work just over the Belgian border where brothels are tolerated by law. Jade, who would later be recruited by businessmen to meet Strauss-Kahn in Belgium, Paris and the US, described how she worked at the Belgian \u201cClub Madame\u201d for Dominique Alderweireld, who refers to himself as Dodo the Pimp and is among the accused on trial. She said 12-13 women slept in bunk beds in a kitchen and had to be available at all times. She preferred a sleeping bag in the cellar, but slept dressed in her work outfit because if the front door rang in the night, they would all have to rush upstairs to be exhibited like \u201cmeat on hooks\u201d. She described working day and night, once while \u201cvomiting blood\u201d. Surveillance showed Dodo the Pimp referring to the prostitutes as \u201clivestock\u201d. In her cellar, Jade said she didn\u2019t have a television so she didn\u2019t recognise Strauss-Kahn when she was first taken to him, only seeing him in the press later and exclaiming: \u201cThat\u2019s him with clothes on.\u201d She spoke English, which came in handy at US immigration on a trip to see Strauss-Kahn in Washington, when border staff found it odd that the businessmen and Jade had come all that way for only a couple of nights.Another detail in court was the seeming power trip of the businessmen who delivered women to Strauss-Kahn. \u201cAh, isn\u2019t power great?\u201d one businessman allegedly said during one \u201csoir\u00e9e\u201d where Strauss-Kahn was present. Another, Fabrice Paszkowski \u2013 a Lille entrepreneur who Strauss-Kahn described as a very good friend \u2013 told one woman that he wanted to organise \u201cgiant orgies at the Elys\u00e9e\u201d, presumably when Strauss-Kahn became president of France. One woman told the inquiry she felt women present at one group sex event were used as mere \u201creceptacles\u201d. Another woman participant, asked about others suffering during the group sex, told the inquiry: \u201cIt didn\u2019t happen to me, but I didn\u2019t need to do it to put food on the table.\u201dAn angry Strauss-Kahn, who said he never organised the events himself but was a guest, rebutted some women\u2019s description of the \u201csoir\u00e9es\u201d as \u201cslaughter\u201d, \u201ckilling\u201d and \u201cbutchery\u201d. He said other women present had described him as courteous. He said the only time he spoke to an \u201cunabashed swinger\u201d about money was when he asked her if she wanted to come to Paris to see him and he would pay her expenses. He said the suggestion that he had to be brought \u201cfresh meat\u201d by businessmen friends was a disgrace. He insisted he never had sex with prostitutes because \u201cI prefer a party atmosphere before, during and after\u201d. He told one sexual partner: \u201cI have a horror of whores.\u201dHe said sex with strangers was 'the whole point' of his 'swinging lifestyle'Asked by the judge if it was not odd that he would have sex with strangers \u2013 such as one woman who was in fact a prostitute, with whom he had sex minutes after meeting her in the basement of a French restaurant \u2013 he said sex with strangers was \u201cthe whole point\u201d of his \u201cswinging lifestyle\u201d. Accused by Jade and another prostitutes of using force to subject them to a sex act they did not want, Strauss-Kahn said he had not noticed any refusal, and believed that \u201cno means no\u201d.Strauss-Kahn\u2019s lawyers appear confident that he will be acquitted on the pimping charge. The judges are likely to spend many weeks deliberating. Even if observers feel there is little evidence to convict Strauss-Kahn of pimping, his public image has suffered. He has been a political pariah since his arrest in New York four years ago over the alleged attempted rape of the hotel maid, Nafissatou Diallo, over which he settled a civil case after prosecutors dropped criminal charges. An online poll for the rightwing paper Le Figaro this week asked: \u201cDo you believe Strauss-Kahn when he says he didn\u2019t know the women he met were prostitutes?\u201d About 11% said yes, 88% said no. ", "tags": ["Dominique Strauss-Kahn", "France", "Women", "Society", "Prostitution", "Sex", "Law"], "title": "Dominique Strauss-Kahn's 'swinging lifestyle' shocks France"},{"date": "2015-01-24T06:59:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "So, where?If you come from Geneva, Valmorel is the first ski resort you reach in the Tarentaise valley in France\u2019s Savoie region. But this intimate little village is often overlooked by British skiers in their rush towards the bigger Trois Vall\u00e9es and Paradiski resorts. It\u2019s the main village of the Grand Domaine ski area, which includes beginner slopes in the hamlet of Doucy-Combelouvi\u00e8re. Ski to the Col de la Madeleine \u2013 one of the Tour de France\u2019s toughest climbs \u2013 and you end up in the linked resort of Saint-Fran\u00e7ois-Longchamp in the Maurienne valley. Related: Your guide to new ski holidays for the 2014-15 season Why try it?Created in 1976 at 1,400m, Valmorel is one of the few purpose-built resorts in France that\u2019s not a concrete eyesore. Learning from earlier mistakes, planners stuck to classic Savoyard design: low-rise wooden buildings and sloping slate roofs. Most accommodation is close to the lifts, and free eco-shuttle buses connect outlying hamlets. Le Bourg, the pedestrianised high street, is full of shops, restaurants and bars. It\u2019s friendly, relaxed, predominantly French and very family-focused. Club Piou-Piou in the centre takes children from 18 months to six years, and there\u2019s a family snowzone with snow park, picnic areas and pedestrian access.Mountain lowdownIt\u2019s blue and green heaven for beginners and low intermediates, with mainly wide motorway runs from 2,030m in Valmorel (and up to 2,300m in Saint-Fran\u00e7ois-Longchamp). Novices have six areas, including two just for children. There are snow parks graded from green to black, including the very tricky black Combe du Riondet snowcross. Off-piste skiers wanting a challenge can hire a guide to tackle the Massif de la Lauzi\u00e8re, which is gaining a reputation among expert skiers who want a mountainside pretty much to themselves.And apart from skiing?There\u2019s no shortage of other activities. Hurtle down the slopes on an airboard (head first on short fat lilo), a snowskate (skateboard on snow) or in a snake gliss (train of toboggans). Go for a snowshoe trek through the forest near L\u2019Aigle Blanc, or try paragliding on skis on a tandem flight with Here We Go Parapente. If that all sounds too energetic, enjoy a massage, sauna or hammam (from \u20ac14) at the Valmoforme spa.Apr\u00e8s any good?For a small village, Valmorel has a decent choice of bars in Le Bourg. Neighbours La Source, Le Petit Savoyard and Le Petit Prince all have terraces for the 4pm crowd, many of whom return in the evening. Le Perce-Neige has snuggly seats outside huddled around heaters. The buzziest is Jimbo Lolo, which serves a mix of Tex-Mex and tapas, with a jungle theme and wooden swings round the bar. And the Sound Pub & Club, which is open till 5am, is a favourite with off-duty bar staff. Related: Great little ski resorts: Morillon, France Where to eatSki Roc in Le Bourg is one of the best and busiest restaurants in the village. It serves the usual Savoyard dishes, but with some innovative touches \u2013 a tartiflette ravioli, for one. It has sister restaurant at the top of the Altispace chairlift, Les Voiles du Nant, which does excellent burgers. And L\u2019Altipiano, at the top of the Pierrafort cable car, does a great reblochonnade \u2013 a version of tartiflette with melted reblochon cheese and ham.Where to stayLa Grange aux F\u00e9es is a stylish new self-catering residence beside the Lanchettes chairlift, with warm wood and exposed stone interiors, plus an indoor pool and hot tubs (seven nights from \u00a3224pp including Eurotunnel crossing with peakretreats.co.uk). Valmorel\u2019s only hotel is the cosy Hotel du Bourg (seven nights from \u00a3393pp including Eurotunnel crossing), whose new owner is updating its 1970s decor.The nitty grittyValmorel has 165km of pistes; 50 lifts; highest altitude 2,550m.Good for families, authentic French charm, value, tranquillityLift pass adult \u00a3164 a week; child \u00a3107Beer \u20ac5.70Runs 14 green, 25 blue, 11 red, 5 blackLimitations Although Valmorel\u2019s naturally cold climate keeps the snow cannons busy, there are quite a few icy and patchy pistes, unless there\u2019s been a huge snowfall.Getting there Fly or take the Eurostar to Geneva, two hours away; the nearest railway station to Valmorel is Mo\u00fbtiers.\u2022 Further information at valmorel.com and savoie-mont-blanc.com", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: Valmorel, France"},{"date": "2015-03-29T05:00:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Why go?With its Belle Epoque hotels, bathing huts and air of faded grandeur, the seaside town of Deauville is the French answer to Brighton. But instead of beach volleyball you\u2019ll find boules, and instead of fish and chip shops, chic brasseries serving oysters and langoustines. Fashionable Deauville was once a favourite haunt of Napoleon and Coco Chanel, and a busy calendar of horseracing events, polo matches and the annual Deauville American Film Festival ensure that it\u2019s still on the circuit for high society. New flights being launched this year by Ryanair (from 3 April) and Flybe (from 22 June) will make it easier than ever for us to join them.What to doTake in the sea air on the Promenade des Planches \u2013 the famous boardwalk \u2013 or go window-shopping in the ritzy boutiques around Place Morny. Catch a ferry across the River Touques to the jolly resort of Trouville, which has a daily fish market, beachfront casino and regular exhibitions at the Villa Montebello, former summer residence of Napoleon. The D-Day beaches and attractive port of Honfleur are within easy striking distance.Where to eatNo visit to this stretch of coast is complete without a bowl of moules marini\u00e8re in the quintessentially French Les Vapeurs, a seafood brasserie in Trouville (lesvapeurs.fr).Where to stayLa Ceris\u00e9e is a charming little B&B in the centre of town with just two guest rooms, including a self-contained cottage with its own kitchen (from \u20ac130, chambre-hotes-deauville.com). Les Manoirs de Tourgeville is a cosseting hotel set in beautiful parkland a few miles inland (from \u20ac170, lesmanoirstourgeville.com).Insider tipThe best place to pick up specialities, such as camembert and cider, is at the food market on Place du March\u00e9, says Yves-Marie Guguen of Les Manoirs de Tourgeville: \u201cTraditional markets are held on Tuesday, Friday and Saturday and they sell local produce as well as arts and crafts.\u201dHOME Peak District adventure weekend: Lost Earth Adventures is holding two activity weekends in the Peak District in May, which will give families the chance to try their hand at rock climbing, gorge scrambling and mountain biking. The weekends, on 2-4 May and 22-24 May, cost \u00a3249pp and include all activities, some meals, plus three nights\u2019 accommodation (lostearthadventures.co.uk).AWAY Living history in Brussels: Celebrate the bicentenary of Wellington\u2019s victory at the Battle of Waterloo this year with a stay at Hougoumont in Belgium \u2013 the site of Napoleon\u2019s final defeat. The Landmark Trust has restored a former gardener\u2019s house situated on this historic estate near Brussels and is offering stays in a two-bedroom apartment from \u00a3482 for four nights (landmarktrust.org.uk).Follow the Observer Magazine on Twitter\u00a0@ObsMagazine", "tags": ["Travel", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Peak District holidays", "United Kingdom holidays", "England holidays", "Brussels holidays", "Belgium holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: Deauville, France, and the week\u2019s best deals"},{"date": "2015-03-19T12:23:58Z", "country": "france", "content": "Jeremy Clarkson\u2019s bust-up has proved to be priceless PR for the launch of the French version of Top Gear, with the first episode proving to be the best-rated show in its broadcaster\u2019s history.The French version of the show, presented by a racing car driver, comedian and journalist, debuted on Wednesday night and proved a smash hit for minor channel RMC D\u00e9couverte.The first episode aired at 8.45pm attracting 925,000 viewers, peaking at 1.1 million, a huge hit given the channel slot\u2019s previous biggest audience for a show was 480,000. Related: BBC Top Gear inquiry: Jeremy Clarkson and Oisin Tymon give evidence Top Gear France\u2019s second episode followed and managed to retain 85% of the audience, averaging 793,000 viewers.Top Gear France received a huge publicity boost following Clarkson\u2019s suspension for a \u201cfracas\u201d with a producer, with Le Figaro calling the show a \u201ctelevised monument\u201d.The French version of the show is presented by Philippe Lellouche, who takes the Clarkson role, with racing driver Bruce Jouanny and journalist Yann Larret-Menzo following in the footsteps of James May and Richard Hammond.There is even Le Stig, the French version of the white-suited racing driver from the British version.Last week Lellouche told a newspaper that the pre-launch headlines made by Clarkson had provided \u201cle buzz\u201d for the French show at precisely the right time.The show is produced by BBC Worldwide Productions France, which has also adapted shows including Dancing with the Stars, Antiques Roadshow, The Great Bake Off, The Weakest Link and Sewing Bee for French audiences.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Jeremy Clarkson", "BBC Worldwide", "BBC", "Media", "Top Gear", "Factual TV", "Television", "Television & radio", "Culture", "France", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Jeremy Clarkson 'fracas' fuels record ratings for Top Gear France"},{"date": "2015-06-24T14:39:36Z", "country": "france", "content": " The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has described revelations that the US spied on three successive French presidents as unacceptable and said Paris would not tolerate actions that threaten its security.The US ambassador was summoned to the foreign ministry for an explanation after WikiLeaks documents published late on Tuesday showed that the US had bugged French leaders\u2019 telephones.  Related: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds emergency meeting after WikiLeaks claims US spied on three French presidents But Hollande\u2019s government faces accusations of hypocrisy, with MPs due to vote through a law later on Wednesday that would give intelligence agencies sweeping new powers to snoop on French people.The bill allows phone and email intercepts without the approval of a judge, seen by critics as a serious threat to individual freedom and privacy. The French authorities argue the measures are necessary following the attacks on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine and a Kosher supermarket in January. It was not clear whether the timing of the WikiLeaks release was deliberate. The revelation that the US National Security Agency (NSA) had spied on three presidents \u2013 Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and Hollande \u2013 caused outrage and indignation in France and prompted Hollande to call an emergency defence council meeting on Wednesday morning.A statement after the crisis summit, described by France\u2019s prime minister, Manuel Valls, as being \u201cfull of emotion and anger\u201d, blasted US snooping as unacceptable and demanded it stop.\u201cFrance will not tolerate actions that threaten its security and the protection of its interests,\u201d the French president\u2019s office said, adding that US spying allegations had surfaced in the past.\u201cThese are unacceptable facts that have already been the subject of clarification between the US and France, notably at the end of 2013 when the first revelations were made and during a state visit by the president of the republic to the United States in February 2014. Commitments were made by the US authorities. They need to be recalled and strictly respected.\u201d Hollande\u2019s office said the French president had phoned Obama on Wednesday afternoon. \u201cThe exchange was a chance to emphasise the principles that must govern relations between allies in matters of intelligence,\u201d said Hollande\u2019s office. \u201cPresident Obama clearly reiterated the firm pledge he made in November 2013, after the Snowden affair, and which was repeated during the state visit [by Hollande] in February 2014, to end practices that might have operated in the past but which are unacceptable between allies.\u201cFrench intelligence officials will very soon travel to Washington to increase cooperation.\u201dThe French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, summoned the US ambassador, Jane Hartley, to the foreign office. And government spokesman St\u00e9phane Le Foll announced a senior French intelligence official would visit the US in the coming days for further discussions with American counterparts.\u201cWe find it hard to understand or imagine what motivates an ally to spy on allies who are often on the same strategic positions in world affairs,\u201d Le Foll added.The revelations were first reported in French daily Lib\u00e9ration and on news website Mediapart, which said the NSA spied on Chirac, Sarkozy and Hollande from at least 2006 until May 2012.Hollande held a second crisis meeting with parliamentary groups at his \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace offices on Wednesday afternoon. Afterwards, Valls told MPs the \u201csystematic and continued\u201d spying on foreign leaders by America was \u201cunacceptable and abnormal\u201d. Valls said he could reassure MPs that France did not eavesdrop on the leaders of European and allied countries.\u201cOur country is loyal and knows the historical debt it owes America, but this gratitude cannot prevent us from protecting our country and citizens,\u201d he said.The leaked US documents, marked top secret, were based on phone taps and filed in an NSA document labelled \u201cEspionnage \u00c9lys\u00e9e\u201d (\u00c9lys\u00e9e spy), according to Lib\u00e9ration and Mediapart. Related: Barack Obama and surveillance reform: a story of vacillation, caution and fear The recorded conversations, which were handled by the summary services unit at the NSA, were said to reveal few state secrets but show clear evidence of the extent of American spying on countries considered allies. WikiLeaks documents suggest that other US spy targets included French cabinet ministers and the French ambassador to the US.\u201cThe documents contain the \u2018selectors\u2019 from the target list, detailing the cell phone numbers of numerous officials in the \u00c9lys\u00e9e up to and including the direct cell phone of the president,\u201d a report of the taps published in the French media revealed.In an article co-authored by Julian Assange, the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration pointed out that in matters of spying, there are no friends. It said: \u201cSpying abroad is the ultimate \u2018grey zone\u2019 in surveillance \u2013 it is also, in France, the real blind spot of the planned law on surveillance, expected to be adopted this Wednesday.\u201dMediapart said: \u201cFor almost 10 years, the United States has listened in to French presidents \u2026 it was all classed top secret or \u2018special intelligence\u2019.US media cited a statement from the NSA saying it was not targeting and would not target Hollande\u2019s communications. The statement did not deny spying had taken place in the past.Le Point magazine pointed out that France spends about \u20ac1bn (\u00a3700m) a year on its secret and intelligence services, compared with \u20ac60bn the US spends. It said this illustrated a \u201cdifference of means, but not of methods\u201d and said the WikiLeaks revelations were nothing new.\u201cThe secret and intelligence services have always had the role of discovering and sending to political leaders, diplomats and military personnel information allowing them to make their decisions,\u201d it wrote. \u201cThe brutal fact is, being allies over one thing doesn\u2019t mean we share everything or hold back on spying on our little friend.\u201dBernard Debr\u00e9, a member of Sarkozy\u2019s opposition Republican party, went further, writing on his blog: \u201cPoliticians are astonished to have been spied on by the Americans! It\u2019s a bloody hypocrisy. For years everyone has been listened in on by the NSA, the NSA has been accused by senators and governors and has drastically reduced its activity \u2026 and at the same time, France is going in the opposite direction.\u201dArnaud Danjean, a former member of France\u2019s intelligence service, the DGSE, and now a Euro MP for the Republican party, said there was nothing new in the revelations.\u201cIt\u2019s all very emotional, but on a technical and geopolitical level there\u2019s nothing new in reporting that spies are spying. Being an ally doesn\u2019t mean that you tell each other everything,\u201d Danjean told France Info.\u201cWhen one is a diplomat, one knows one is a target. When you\u2019re someone in the public sphere, you start from the principle that foreign countries are interested in you, you take defensive measures as a result.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "NSA", "Surveillance", "WikiLeaks", "US news"], "title": "France summons US ambassador over 'unacceptable' spying"},{"date": "2015-06-24T14:39:36Z", "country": "france", "content": " The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has described revelations that the US spied on three successive French presidents as unacceptable and said Paris would not tolerate actions that threaten its security.The US ambassador was summoned to the foreign ministry for an explanation after WikiLeaks documents published late on Tuesday showed that the US had bugged French leaders\u2019 telephones.  Related: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds emergency meeting after WikiLeaks claims US spied on three French presidents But Hollande\u2019s government faces accusations of hypocrisy, with MPs due to vote through a law later on Wednesday that would give intelligence agencies sweeping new powers to snoop on French people.The bill allows phone and email intercepts without the approval of a judge, seen by critics as a serious threat to individual freedom and privacy. The French authorities argue the measures are necessary following the attacks on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine and a Kosher supermarket in January. It was not clear whether the timing of the WikiLeaks release was deliberate. The revelation that the US National Security Agency (NSA) had spied on three presidents \u2013 Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and Hollande \u2013 caused outrage and indignation in France and prompted Hollande to call an emergency defence council meeting on Wednesday morning.A statement after the crisis summit, described by France\u2019s prime minister, Manuel Valls, as being \u201cfull of emotion and anger\u201d, blasted US snooping as unacceptable and demanded it stop.\u201cFrance will not tolerate actions that threaten its security and the protection of its interests,\u201d the French president\u2019s office said, adding that US spying allegations had surfaced in the past.\u201cThese are unacceptable facts that have already been the subject of clarification between the US and France, notably at the end of 2013 when the first revelations were made and during a state visit by the president of the republic to the United States in February 2014. Commitments were made by the US authorities. They need to be recalled and strictly respected.\u201d Hollande\u2019s office said the French president had phoned Obama on Wednesday afternoon. \u201cThe exchange was a chance to emphasise the principles that must govern relations between allies in matters of intelligence,\u201d said Hollande\u2019s office. \u201cPresident Obama clearly reiterated the firm pledge he made in November 2013, after the Snowden affair, and which was repeated during the state visit [by Hollande] in February 2014, to end practices that might have operated in the past but which are unacceptable between allies.\u201cFrench intelligence officials will very soon travel to Washington to increase cooperation.\u201dThe French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, summoned the US ambassador, Jane Hartley, to the foreign office. And government spokesman St\u00e9phane Le Foll announced a senior French intelligence official would visit the US in the coming days for further discussions with American counterparts.\u201cWe find it hard to understand or imagine what motivates an ally to spy on allies who are often on the same strategic positions in world affairs,\u201d Le Foll added.The revelations were first reported in French daily Lib\u00e9ration and on news website Mediapart, which said the NSA spied on Chirac, Sarkozy and Hollande from at least 2006 until May 2012.Hollande held a second crisis meeting with parliamentary groups at his \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace offices on Wednesday afternoon. Afterwards, Valls told MPs the \u201csystematic and continued\u201d spying on foreign leaders by America was \u201cunacceptable and abnormal\u201d. Valls said he could reassure MPs that France did not eavesdrop on the leaders of European and allied countries.\u201cOur country is loyal and knows the historical debt it owes America, but this gratitude cannot prevent us from protecting our country and citizens,\u201d he said.The leaked US documents, marked top secret, were based on phone taps and filed in an NSA document labelled \u201cEspionnage \u00c9lys\u00e9e\u201d (\u00c9lys\u00e9e spy), according to Lib\u00e9ration and Mediapart. Related: Barack Obama and surveillance reform: a story of vacillation, caution and fear The recorded conversations, which were handled by the summary services unit at the NSA, were said to reveal few state secrets but show clear evidence of the extent of American spying on countries considered allies. WikiLeaks documents suggest that other US spy targets included French cabinet ministers and the French ambassador to the US.\u201cThe documents contain the \u2018selectors\u2019 from the target list, detailing the cell phone numbers of numerous officials in the \u00c9lys\u00e9e up to and including the direct cell phone of the president,\u201d a report of the taps published in the French media revealed.In an article co-authored by Julian Assange, the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration pointed out that in matters of spying, there are no friends. It said: \u201cSpying abroad is the ultimate \u2018grey zone\u2019 in surveillance \u2013 it is also, in France, the real blind spot of the planned law on surveillance, expected to be adopted this Wednesday.\u201dMediapart said: \u201cFor almost 10 years, the United States has listened in to French presidents \u2026 it was all classed top secret or \u2018special intelligence\u2019.US media cited a statement from the NSA saying it was not targeting and would not target Hollande\u2019s communications. The statement did not deny spying had taken place in the past.Le Point magazine pointed out that France spends about \u20ac1bn (\u00a3700m) a year on its secret and intelligence services, compared with \u20ac60bn the US spends. It said this illustrated a \u201cdifference of means, but not of methods\u201d and said the WikiLeaks revelations were nothing new.\u201cThe secret and intelligence services have always had the role of discovering and sending to political leaders, diplomats and military personnel information allowing them to make their decisions,\u201d it wrote. \u201cThe brutal fact is, being allies over one thing doesn\u2019t mean we share everything or hold back on spying on our little friend.\u201dBernard Debr\u00e9, a member of Sarkozy\u2019s opposition Republican party, went further, writing on his blog: \u201cPoliticians are astonished to have been spied on by the Americans! It\u2019s a bloody hypocrisy. For years everyone has been listened in on by the NSA, the NSA has been accused by senators and governors and has drastically reduced its activity \u2026 and at the same time, France is going in the opposite direction.\u201dArnaud Danjean, a former member of France\u2019s intelligence service, the DGSE, and now a Euro MP for the Republican party, said there was nothing new in the revelations.\u201cIt\u2019s all very emotional, but on a technical and geopolitical level there\u2019s nothing new in reporting that spies are spying. Being an ally doesn\u2019t mean that you tell each other everything,\u201d Danjean told France Info.\u201cWhen one is a diplomat, one knows one is a target. When you\u2019re someone in the public sphere, you start from the principle that foreign countries are interested in you, you take defensive measures as a result.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "NSA", "Surveillance", "WikiLeaks", "US news"], "title": "France summons US ambassador over 'unacceptable' spying"},{"date": "2015-06-26T16:56:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "A volley of terror attacks has struck across three continents, leaving dozens dead in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, just days after the militant group Islamic State issued a call to arms for the holy month of Ramadan.Near-simultaneous attacks targeted tourists at a hotel resort in Tunisia and Shia worshippers in a mosque in Kuwait, and, reportedly, a delivery company boss at a factory in France.The trio of attacks marks a new low point in the global terror onslaught. In Tunisia, at least 37 people were shot dead in the country\u2019s deadliest terrorist attack. In Kuwait, 25 were killed and more than 200 injured in a suicide bomb \u2013 the first attack in the country since 2005. In France, the victim was decapitated, the first time that grim method had been used in the country. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Kuwait incident, but the affiliation and inspiration of the other attackers remained unclear. Isis\u2019s chief spokesman, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, called on jihadists earlier this week to \u201cmake the month of Ramadan a calamity on the apostates\u201d by stepping up attacks and seeking \u201cmartyrdom\u201d.All three attacks were launched early on Friday morning.In Tunisia, the health minister said 37 people were killed and 36 wounded \u2013 mostly tourists \u2013 in an attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel at the beach resort town of Sousse, about 93 miles south of Tunis. The gunman approached the resort from the beach, opening fire on sunbathing tourists, before entering the hotel through the pool area. Many of the victims were thought to be British, German and Belgian. The gunman was killed. Suspected accomplices were arrested.In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yassin Salhi, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yessim Salim, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. ", "tags": ["Tunisia", "Kuwait", "Islamic State", "France", "Africa", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France stun three continents"},{"date": "2015-06-24T14:39:36Z", "country": "france", "content": " The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has described revelations that the US spied on three successive French presidents as unacceptable and said Paris would not tolerate actions that threaten its security.The US ambassador was summoned to the foreign ministry for an explanation after WikiLeaks documents published late on Tuesday showed that the US had bugged French leaders\u2019 telephones.  Related: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds emergency meeting after WikiLeaks claims US spied on three French presidents But Hollande\u2019s government faces accusations of hypocrisy, with MPs due to vote through a law later on Wednesday that would give intelligence agencies sweeping new powers to snoop on French people.The bill allows phone and email intercepts without the approval of a judge, seen by critics as a serious threat to individual freedom and privacy. The French authorities argue the measures are necessary following the attacks on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine and a Kosher supermarket in January. It was not clear whether the timing of the WikiLeaks release was deliberate. The revelation that the US National Security Agency (NSA) had spied on three presidents \u2013 Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and Hollande \u2013 caused outrage and indignation in France and prompted Hollande to call an emergency defence council meeting on Wednesday morning.A statement after the crisis summit, described by France\u2019s prime minister, Manuel Valls, as being \u201cfull of emotion and anger\u201d, blasted US snooping as unacceptable and demanded it stop.\u201cFrance will not tolerate actions that threaten its security and the protection of its interests,\u201d the French president\u2019s office said, adding that US spying allegations had surfaced in the past.\u201cThese are unacceptable facts that have already been the subject of clarification between the US and France, notably at the end of 2013 when the first revelations were made and during a state visit by the president of the republic to the United States in February 2014. Commitments were made by the US authorities. They need to be recalled and strictly respected.\u201d Hollande\u2019s office said the French president had phoned Obama on Wednesday afternoon. \u201cThe exchange was a chance to emphasise the principles that must govern relations between allies in matters of intelligence,\u201d said Hollande\u2019s office. \u201cPresident Obama clearly reiterated the firm pledge he made in November 2013, after the Snowden affair, and which was repeated during the state visit [by Hollande] in February 2014, to end practices that might have operated in the past but which are unacceptable between allies.\u201cFrench intelligence officials will very soon travel to Washington to increase cooperation.\u201dThe French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, summoned the US ambassador, Jane Hartley, to the foreign office. And government spokesman St\u00e9phane Le Foll announced a senior French intelligence official would visit the US in the coming days for further discussions with American counterparts.\u201cWe find it hard to understand or imagine what motivates an ally to spy on allies who are often on the same strategic positions in world affairs,\u201d Le Foll added.The revelations were first reported in French daily Lib\u00e9ration and on news website Mediapart, which said the NSA spied on Chirac, Sarkozy and Hollande from at least 2006 until May 2012.Hollande held a second crisis meeting with parliamentary groups at his \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace offices on Wednesday afternoon. Afterwards, Valls told MPs the \u201csystematic and continued\u201d spying on foreign leaders by America was \u201cunacceptable and abnormal\u201d. Valls said he could reassure MPs that France did not eavesdrop on the leaders of European and allied countries.\u201cOur country is loyal and knows the historical debt it owes America, but this gratitude cannot prevent us from protecting our country and citizens,\u201d he said.The leaked US documents, marked top secret, were based on phone taps and filed in an NSA document labelled \u201cEspionnage \u00c9lys\u00e9e\u201d (\u00c9lys\u00e9e spy), according to Lib\u00e9ration and Mediapart. Related: Barack Obama and surveillance reform: a story of vacillation, caution and fear The recorded conversations, which were handled by the summary services unit at the NSA, were said to reveal few state secrets but show clear evidence of the extent of American spying on countries considered allies. WikiLeaks documents suggest that other US spy targets included French cabinet ministers and the French ambassador to the US.\u201cThe documents contain the \u2018selectors\u2019 from the target list, detailing the cell phone numbers of numerous officials in the \u00c9lys\u00e9e up to and including the direct cell phone of the president,\u201d a report of the taps published in the French media revealed.In an article co-authored by Julian Assange, the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration pointed out that in matters of spying, there are no friends. It said: \u201cSpying abroad is the ultimate \u2018grey zone\u2019 in surveillance \u2013 it is also, in France, the real blind spot of the planned law on surveillance, expected to be adopted this Wednesday.\u201dMediapart said: \u201cFor almost 10 years, the United States has listened in to French presidents \u2026 it was all classed top secret or \u2018special intelligence\u2019.US media cited a statement from the NSA saying it was not targeting and would not target Hollande\u2019s communications. The statement did not deny spying had taken place in the past.Le Point magazine pointed out that France spends about \u20ac1bn (\u00a3700m) a year on its secret and intelligence services, compared with \u20ac60bn the US spends. It said this illustrated a \u201cdifference of means, but not of methods\u201d and said the WikiLeaks revelations were nothing new.\u201cThe secret and intelligence services have always had the role of discovering and sending to political leaders, diplomats and military personnel information allowing them to make their decisions,\u201d it wrote. \u201cThe brutal fact is, being allies over one thing doesn\u2019t mean we share everything or hold back on spying on our little friend.\u201dBernard Debr\u00e9, a member of Sarkozy\u2019s opposition Republican party, went further, writing on his blog: \u201cPoliticians are astonished to have been spied on by the Americans! It\u2019s a bloody hypocrisy. For years everyone has been listened in on by the NSA, the NSA has been accused by senators and governors and has drastically reduced its activity \u2026 and at the same time, France is going in the opposite direction.\u201dArnaud Danjean, a former member of France\u2019s intelligence service, the DGSE, and now a Euro MP for the Republican party, said there was nothing new in the revelations.\u201cIt\u2019s all very emotional, but on a technical and geopolitical level there\u2019s nothing new in reporting that spies are spying. Being an ally doesn\u2019t mean that you tell each other everything,\u201d Danjean told France Info.\u201cWhen one is a diplomat, one knows one is a target. When you\u2019re someone in the public sphere, you start from the principle that foreign countries are interested in you, you take defensive measures as a result.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "NSA", "Surveillance", "WikiLeaks", "US news"], "title": "France summons US ambassador over 'unacceptable' spying"},{"date": "2015-06-26T16:56:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "A volley of terror attacks has struck across three continents, leaving dozens dead in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, just days after the militant group Islamic State issued a call to arms for the holy month of Ramadan.Near-simultaneous attacks targeted tourists at a hotel resort in Tunisia and Shia worshippers in a mosque in Kuwait, and, reportedly, a delivery company boss at a factory in France.The trio of attacks marks a new low point in the global terror onslaught. In Tunisia, at least 37 people were shot dead in the country\u2019s deadliest terrorist attack. In Kuwait, 25 were killed and more than 200 injured in a suicide bomb \u2013 the first attack in the country since 2005. In France, the victim was decapitated, the first time that grim method had been used in the country. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Kuwait incident, but the affiliation and inspiration of the other attackers remained unclear. Isis\u2019s chief spokesman, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, called on jihadists earlier this week to \u201cmake the month of Ramadan a calamity on the apostates\u201d by stepping up attacks and seeking \u201cmartyrdom\u201d.All three attacks were launched early on Friday morning.In Tunisia, the health minister said 37 people were killed and 36 wounded \u2013 mostly tourists \u2013 in an attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel at the beach resort town of Sousse, about 93 miles south of Tunis. The gunman approached the resort from the beach, opening fire on sunbathing tourists, before entering the hotel through the pool area. Many of the victims were thought to be British, German and Belgian. The gunman was killed. Suspected accomplices were arrested.In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yassin Salhi, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yessim Salim, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. ", "tags": ["Tunisia", "Kuwait", "Islamic State", "France", "Africa", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France stun three continents"},{"date": "2015-06-26T15:14:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Three different attacks, one overall suspect. The wave of killing on Friday will undoubtedly be attributed to Islamic State, which has already reportedly claimed responsibility for one amongst them, with strong indications of a role in the others.Each attack hit a different target in a different way, and underlines the varied nature of a constantly evolving threat.One involved Muslims killing Muslims in the Middle East itself: a bomb in a Shia mosque in Kuwait, a conservative Gulf state with a Sunni Muslim majority. This is part of the horrendous sectarian violence which has increasingly convulsed the region over the last five years and shows no sign of abating. Outright war against Shias \u2013 seen as apostates by Islamic State \u2013 is a core aim of the terrorist organisation which goes back to its origins in Iraq a decade or more ago. This is a reminder that the vast proportion of casualties of terrorism are Muslims killed by co-religionists.The second targeted western tourists in Tunisia. Hotels and holidaymakers have been a frequent target in recent years. Western tourists are both an obvious and vulnerable presence in the Islamic world. An attack on a hotel will attract global attention, mark a group\u2019s influence and badly damage the local tourist industry. Historically such attacks have undermined local support but it seems unlikely Friday\u2019s attackers would have been bothered by this. The prime suspects for the Sousse attack are militants belonging to fragmented local groups, possibly based in neighbouring Libya and loyal to Isis. Third was the attack on a US-owned gas cylinder plant in south-east France. The culprit in this strike appears to have worked for the victim\u2019s company, but the French have nevertheless launched a terror investigation. He also appears to fit a profile that has become well established in recent years: a French male aged between 22 and 35 who was either born overseas before coming to France or whose parents migrated from Algeria or Morocco. Some of these attackers have had links to overseas groups; while others have been closer to the classic idea of \u201clone wolves\u201d. But all have been steeped in a broader environment of violent activism, extreme conservatism, homophobia and anti-semitism for many years before they acted. They are \u201clone actors\u201d only in terms of the actual organisation and execution of a terrorist attack; their world view is shared by a significant number of people. An increasing number have either been inspired by, or actually fought for, Islamic State. When propagandists of the group tell individuals their duty is to take up arms in European countries \u2013 especially against the \u201cfilthy French\u201d \u2013 they know already how receptive some will be to their call to arms.The three strikes came almost exactly on the first anniversary of Islamic State\u2019s declaration of its caliphate, and it is possible they were coordinated. If so, it would indicate a new level of strategic thinking and capability for Isis. If not, they nevertheless send a potent message: terrorists hope to to give the impression that they can strike at will, everywhere, anywhere.This is clearly not the case: the attack in Europe involved one man; the one in Tunis, a gunman or two. We are still far from the mass casualty attacks of 10 or 12 years ago in Europe. We are also far from the doomsday scenario of highly trained Isis militants making their way to the UK, US or wherever to execute major operations.But the sense of ubiquitous menace inevitably induced by Friday\u2019s killings will be difficult to dispel.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "World news"], "title": "Terror attacks in Kuwait, France and Tunisia echo Isis methods"},{"date": "2015-06-24T14:39:36Z", "country": "france", "content": " The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has described revelations that the US spied on three successive French presidents as unacceptable and said Paris would not tolerate actions that threaten its security.The US ambassador was summoned to the foreign ministry for an explanation after WikiLeaks documents published late on Tuesday showed that the US had bugged French leaders\u2019 telephones.  Related: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds emergency meeting after WikiLeaks claims US spied on three French presidents But Hollande\u2019s government faces accusations of hypocrisy, with MPs due to vote through a law later on Wednesday that would give intelligence agencies sweeping new powers to snoop on French people.The bill allows phone and email intercepts without the approval of a judge, seen by critics as a serious threat to individual freedom and privacy. The French authorities argue the measures are necessary following the attacks on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine and a Kosher supermarket in January. It was not clear whether the timing of the WikiLeaks release was deliberate. The revelation that the US National Security Agency (NSA) had spied on three presidents \u2013 Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and Hollande \u2013 caused outrage and indignation in France and prompted Hollande to call an emergency defence council meeting on Wednesday morning.A statement after the crisis summit, described by France\u2019s prime minister, Manuel Valls, as being \u201cfull of emotion and anger\u201d, blasted US snooping as unacceptable and demanded it stop.\u201cFrance will not tolerate actions that threaten its security and the protection of its interests,\u201d the French president\u2019s office said, adding that US spying allegations had surfaced in the past.\u201cThese are unacceptable facts that have already been the subject of clarification between the US and France, notably at the end of 2013 when the first revelations were made and during a state visit by the president of the republic to the United States in February 2014. Commitments were made by the US authorities. They need to be recalled and strictly respected.\u201d Hollande\u2019s office said the French president had phoned Obama on Wednesday afternoon. \u201cThe exchange was a chance to emphasise the principles that must govern relations between allies in matters of intelligence,\u201d said Hollande\u2019s office. \u201cPresident Obama clearly reiterated the firm pledge he made in November 2013, after the Snowden affair, and which was repeated during the state visit [by Hollande] in February 2014, to end practices that might have operated in the past but which are unacceptable between allies.\u201cFrench intelligence officials will very soon travel to Washington to increase cooperation.\u201dThe French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, summoned the US ambassador, Jane Hartley, to the foreign office. And government spokesman St\u00e9phane Le Foll announced a senior French intelligence official would visit the US in the coming days for further discussions with American counterparts.\u201cWe find it hard to understand or imagine what motivates an ally to spy on allies who are often on the same strategic positions in world affairs,\u201d Le Foll added.The revelations were first reported in French daily Lib\u00e9ration and on news website Mediapart, which said the NSA spied on Chirac, Sarkozy and Hollande from at least 2006 until May 2012.Hollande held a second crisis meeting with parliamentary groups at his \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace offices on Wednesday afternoon. Afterwards, Valls told MPs the \u201csystematic and continued\u201d spying on foreign leaders by America was \u201cunacceptable and abnormal\u201d. Valls said he could reassure MPs that France did not eavesdrop on the leaders of European and allied countries.\u201cOur country is loyal and knows the historical debt it owes America, but this gratitude cannot prevent us from protecting our country and citizens,\u201d he said.The leaked US documents, marked top secret, were based on phone taps and filed in an NSA document labelled \u201cEspionnage \u00c9lys\u00e9e\u201d (\u00c9lys\u00e9e spy), according to Lib\u00e9ration and Mediapart. Related: Barack Obama and surveillance reform: a story of vacillation, caution and fear The recorded conversations, which were handled by the summary services unit at the NSA, were said to reveal few state secrets but show clear evidence of the extent of American spying on countries considered allies. WikiLeaks documents suggest that other US spy targets included French cabinet ministers and the French ambassador to the US.\u201cThe documents contain the \u2018selectors\u2019 from the target list, detailing the cell phone numbers of numerous officials in the \u00c9lys\u00e9e up to and including the direct cell phone of the president,\u201d a report of the taps published in the French media revealed.In an article co-authored by Julian Assange, the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration pointed out that in matters of spying, there are no friends. It said: \u201cSpying abroad is the ultimate \u2018grey zone\u2019 in surveillance \u2013 it is also, in France, the real blind spot of the planned law on surveillance, expected to be adopted this Wednesday.\u201dMediapart said: \u201cFor almost 10 years, the United States has listened in to French presidents \u2026 it was all classed top secret or \u2018special intelligence\u2019.US media cited a statement from the NSA saying it was not targeting and would not target Hollande\u2019s communications. The statement did not deny spying had taken place in the past.Le Point magazine pointed out that France spends about \u20ac1bn (\u00a3700m) a year on its secret and intelligence services, compared with \u20ac60bn the US spends. It said this illustrated a \u201cdifference of means, but not of methods\u201d and said the WikiLeaks revelations were nothing new.\u201cThe secret and intelligence services have always had the role of discovering and sending to political leaders, diplomats and military personnel information allowing them to make their decisions,\u201d it wrote. \u201cThe brutal fact is, being allies over one thing doesn\u2019t mean we share everything or hold back on spying on our little friend.\u201dBernard Debr\u00e9, a member of Sarkozy\u2019s opposition Republican party, went further, writing on his blog: \u201cPoliticians are astonished to have been spied on by the Americans! It\u2019s a bloody hypocrisy. For years everyone has been listened in on by the NSA, the NSA has been accused by senators and governors and has drastically reduced its activity \u2026 and at the same time, France is going in the opposite direction.\u201dArnaud Danjean, a former member of France\u2019s intelligence service, the DGSE, and now a Euro MP for the Republican party, said there was nothing new in the revelations.\u201cIt\u2019s all very emotional, but on a technical and geopolitical level there\u2019s nothing new in reporting that spies are spying. Being an ally doesn\u2019t mean that you tell each other everything,\u201d Danjean told France Info.\u201cWhen one is a diplomat, one knows one is a target. When you\u2019re someone in the public sphere, you start from the principle that foreign countries are interested in you, you take defensive measures as a result.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "NSA", "Surveillance", "WikiLeaks", "US news"], "title": "France summons US ambassador over 'unacceptable' spying"},{"date": "2015-06-26T16:56:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "A volley of terror attacks has struck across three continents, leaving dozens dead in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, just days after the militant group Islamic State issued a call to arms for the holy month of Ramadan.Near-simultaneous attacks targeted tourists at a hotel resort in Tunisia and Shia worshippers in a mosque in Kuwait, and, reportedly, a delivery company boss at a factory in France.The trio of attacks marks a new low point in the global terror onslaught. In Tunisia, at least 37 people were shot dead in the country\u2019s deadliest terrorist attack. In Kuwait, 25 were killed and more than 200 injured in a suicide bomb \u2013 the first attack in the country since 2005. In France, the victim was decapitated, the first time that grim method had been used in the country. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Kuwait incident, but the affiliation and inspiration of the other attackers remained unclear. Isis\u2019s chief spokesman, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, called on jihadists earlier this week to \u201cmake the month of Ramadan a calamity on the apostates\u201d by stepping up attacks and seeking \u201cmartyrdom\u201d.All three attacks were launched early on Friday morning.In Tunisia, the health minister said 37 people were killed and 36 wounded \u2013 mostly tourists \u2013 in an attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel at the beach resort town of Sousse, about 93 miles south of Tunis. The gunman approached the resort from the beach, opening fire on sunbathing tourists, before entering the hotel through the pool area. Many of the victims were thought to be British, German and Belgian. The gunman was killed. Suspected accomplices were arrested.In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yassin Salhi, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yessim Salim, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. ", "tags": ["Tunisia", "Kuwait", "Islamic State", "France", "Africa", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France stun three continents"},{"date": "2015-06-26T15:14:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Three different attacks, one overall suspect. The wave of killing on Friday will undoubtedly be attributed to Islamic State, which has already reportedly claimed responsibility for one amongst them, with strong indications of a role in the others.Each attack hit a different target in a different way, and underlines the varied nature of a constantly evolving threat.One involved Muslims killing Muslims in the Middle East itself: a bomb in a Shia mosque in Kuwait, a conservative Gulf state with a Sunni Muslim majority. This is part of the horrendous sectarian violence which has increasingly convulsed the region over the last five years and shows no sign of abating. Outright war against Shias \u2013 seen as apostates by Islamic State \u2013 is a core aim of the terrorist organisation which goes back to its origins in Iraq a decade or more ago. This is a reminder that the vast proportion of casualties of terrorism are Muslims killed by co-religionists.The second targeted western tourists in Tunisia. Hotels and holidaymakers have been a frequent target in recent years. Western tourists are both an obvious and vulnerable presence in the Islamic world. An attack on a hotel will attract global attention, mark a group\u2019s influence and badly damage the local tourist industry. Historically such attacks have undermined local support but it seems unlikely Friday\u2019s attackers would have been bothered by this. The prime suspects for the Sousse attack are militants belonging to fragmented local groups, possibly based in neighbouring Libya and loyal to Isis. Third was the attack on a US-owned gas cylinder plant in south-east France. The culprit in this strike appears to have worked for the victim\u2019s company, but the French have nevertheless launched a terror investigation. He also appears to fit a profile that has become well established in recent years: a French male aged between 22 and 35 who was either born overseas before coming to France or whose parents migrated from Algeria or Morocco. Some of these attackers have had links to overseas groups; while others have been closer to the classic idea of \u201clone wolves\u201d. But all have been steeped in a broader environment of violent activism, extreme conservatism, homophobia and anti-semitism for many years before they acted. They are \u201clone actors\u201d only in terms of the actual organisation and execution of a terrorist attack; their world view is shared by a significant number of people. An increasing number have either been inspired by, or actually fought for, Islamic State. When propagandists of the group tell individuals their duty is to take up arms in European countries \u2013 especially against the \u201cfilthy French\u201d \u2013 they know already how receptive some will be to their call to arms.The three strikes came almost exactly on the first anniversary of Islamic State\u2019s declaration of its caliphate, and it is possible they were coordinated. If so, it would indicate a new level of strategic thinking and capability for Isis. If not, they nevertheless send a potent message: terrorists hope to to give the impression that they can strike at will, everywhere, anywhere.This is clearly not the case: the attack in Europe involved one man; the one in Tunis, a gunman or two. We are still far from the mass casualty attacks of 10 or 12 years ago in Europe. We are also far from the doomsday scenario of highly trained Isis militants making their way to the UK, US or wherever to execute major operations.But the sense of ubiquitous menace inevitably induced by Friday\u2019s killings will be difficult to dispel.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "World news"], "title": "Terror attacks in Kuwait, France and Tunisia echo Isis methods"},{"date": "2015-06-27T11:48:16Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has held a second emergency defence council meeting after the decapitation of a company boss in the south-east of France and the attacks in Tunisia and Kuwait.Hollande returned immediately to Paris from an official visit in Brussels on Friday and the prime minister, Manuel Valls, cut short a visit to South America for the crisis summit that followed the raising of the country\u2019s security alert level.Valls warned that France faced more attacks after the gruesome killing on Friday which came less than six months after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine and a kosher supermarket in Paris that left 17 people, including two police officers, dead.\u201cIt\u2019s difficult for a society to live for years under the threat of attack,\u201d he told French journalists. \u201cThe question is not if there will be another attack \u2026 but when.\u201dPolice were still questioning suspected attacker Yassin Salhi and three members of his family, including his wife, who were taken into custody on Friday.In Tunisia, the death toll from the attack on tourists at a beach and luxury hotel was said to have reached 39 people, including eight Britons.Locals in the small village of Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near where the Frenchman was decapitated, reportedly by one of his employees, held a minute\u2019s silence as more details of the gruesome French assassination emerged.Salhi, a 35-year-old father of three, is suspected to have driven to the Air Products depot at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, a short drive from Lyon, in a Peugeot Boxer around 9.28am local time on Friday.The suspect then allegedly rang at the gate of the depot belonging to the US-based company, which stocked liquid gas for industrial use, and showed a badge that gave him the authority to enter into the first security zone.Salhi had become known to police in 2006 after attending meetings held by a radical preacher in the Doubs area of western France where he was born, and was placed on a security watchlist classed as \u201cFiche S\u201d (for \u201cstate security\u201d). He was rated at 13 on a scale of 16, but his name appears to have been dropped when the list was renewed two years later. He had no criminal record.CCTV cameras show the driver suddenly accelerating into a second gate around a more protected area and ramming into gas tanks. Injured in the crash, he managed to get out of his car and ran into a covered hanger filled with bottles of liquid air, gas and acetone.He then opened the valves on the bottles before trying to set them alight, when firefighters arrived.After an explosion and the start of a fire, an emergency firefighter confronted the suspect at around 10am and attempted to stop him by grappling him to the ground and holding him until local gendarmes could arrive.As they pulled up at the depot, gendarmes were horrified to find a decapitated head attached by a chain to a gate inside the depot, covered with two large black-and-white banners covered in Arab writing that appeared to correspond to the Shahada (the Muslim profession of faith).Near the Peugeot Boxer, which had been seriously damaged by the gas explosion, lay the headless body. A knife was found nearby. Related: France attack: terror inquiry launched and suspect arrested \u2013 as it happened The victim was named as Herv\u00e9 Cornara, aged 54, the commercial director of ATC Transport, a delivery company where Salhi worked as a driver since March. Police said it appeared the victim had been decapitated before Salhi drove into the depot.While beheading is a trademark of Islamic State (Isis), investigators have not confirmed whether the suspect had direct links or strong sympathies with the Islamist terror group.The Air Products site was on the EU Seveso list, meaning it contained potentially risky industrial material, but that the hazard was limited.Salhi was born on 25 March, 1980 to a Moroccan-born mother and an Algerian-born father, who was a factory worker. According to Le Parisien, the family showed no signs of religious fervour until after the father died of a heart attack and the mother started wearing a headscarf and her sons allegedly grew beards. Shortly afterwards, the mother returned to Morocco.The local newspaper, L\u2019Est R\u00e9publicain, reported that at the beginning of the 2000s, Salhi became close to a radical Islamic preacher at Pontarlier, in Doubs, who was nicknamed \u201cGrand Ali\u201d. Ali, an Islamic convert, was suspected of involvement in an attack in Indonesia. In 2004, Salhi came to the attention of the intelligence services, and was placed on the Fiche S for his alleged radicalisation and \u201clinks to a Salafist movement\u201d. This Fiche S was dropped in 2008.Salhi and his wife and three children moved briefly to Besan\u00e7on, the capital of Doubs, where he was said to continue to meet with Salafis, then to Saint Priest, near Lyon. His colleagues and neighbours said he never spoke about religion. Because of his continued connections with Salafis, his name was picked up again by the French intelligence services in 2013 and 2014. The Direction G\u00e9n\u00e9rale de la S\u00e9curit\u00e9 (DGSE), France\u2019s intelligence service, apparently wanted to put his telephone under surveillance, but could not find any line registered to him or any member of his family.There is no evidence or suggestion as yet his wife or sister knew anything about the attack at Air Products.The US-based head of the company, Seifi Ghasemi, expressed \u201call his sympathy for the victim of the attack\u201d on Saturday. \u201cI am horrified and terribly saddened by this attack on one of our plants in France. I think I speak for all staff at Air Products across the world in expressing our profound sympathy for the family of the victim of this undescribable act,\u201d Ghasemi said.", "tags": ["France", "Islamic State", "World news", "Europe", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France attack: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds second crisis summit"},{"date": "2015-06-24T14:39:36Z", "country": "france", "content": " The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has described revelations that the US spied on three successive French presidents as unacceptable and said Paris would not tolerate actions that threaten its security.The US ambassador was summoned to the foreign ministry for an explanation after WikiLeaks documents published late on Tuesday showed that the US had bugged French leaders\u2019 telephones.  Related: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds emergency meeting after WikiLeaks claims US spied on three French presidents But Hollande\u2019s government faces accusations of hypocrisy, with MPs due to vote through a law later on Wednesday that would give intelligence agencies sweeping new powers to snoop on French people.The bill allows phone and email intercepts without the approval of a judge, seen by critics as a serious threat to individual freedom and privacy. The French authorities argue the measures are necessary following the attacks on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine and a Kosher supermarket in January. It was not clear whether the timing of the WikiLeaks release was deliberate. The revelation that the US National Security Agency (NSA) had spied on three presidents \u2013 Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and Hollande \u2013 caused outrage and indignation in France and prompted Hollande to call an emergency defence council meeting on Wednesday morning.A statement after the crisis summit, described by France\u2019s prime minister, Manuel Valls, as being \u201cfull of emotion and anger\u201d, blasted US snooping as unacceptable and demanded it stop.\u201cFrance will not tolerate actions that threaten its security and the protection of its interests,\u201d the French president\u2019s office said, adding that US spying allegations had surfaced in the past.\u201cThese are unacceptable facts that have already been the subject of clarification between the US and France, notably at the end of 2013 when the first revelations were made and during a state visit by the president of the republic to the United States in February 2014. Commitments were made by the US authorities. They need to be recalled and strictly respected.\u201d Hollande\u2019s office said the French president had phoned Obama on Wednesday afternoon. \u201cThe exchange was a chance to emphasise the principles that must govern relations between allies in matters of intelligence,\u201d said Hollande\u2019s office. \u201cPresident Obama clearly reiterated the firm pledge he made in November 2013, after the Snowden affair, and which was repeated during the state visit [by Hollande] in February 2014, to end practices that might have operated in the past but which are unacceptable between allies.\u201cFrench intelligence officials will very soon travel to Washington to increase cooperation.\u201dThe French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, summoned the US ambassador, Jane Hartley, to the foreign office. And government spokesman St\u00e9phane Le Foll announced a senior French intelligence official would visit the US in the coming days for further discussions with American counterparts.\u201cWe find it hard to understand or imagine what motivates an ally to spy on allies who are often on the same strategic positions in world affairs,\u201d Le Foll added.The revelations were first reported in French daily Lib\u00e9ration and on news website Mediapart, which said the NSA spied on Chirac, Sarkozy and Hollande from at least 2006 until May 2012.Hollande held a second crisis meeting with parliamentary groups at his \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace offices on Wednesday afternoon. Afterwards, Valls told MPs the \u201csystematic and continued\u201d spying on foreign leaders by America was \u201cunacceptable and abnormal\u201d. Valls said he could reassure MPs that France did not eavesdrop on the leaders of European and allied countries.\u201cOur country is loyal and knows the historical debt it owes America, but this gratitude cannot prevent us from protecting our country and citizens,\u201d he said.The leaked US documents, marked top secret, were based on phone taps and filed in an NSA document labelled \u201cEspionnage \u00c9lys\u00e9e\u201d (\u00c9lys\u00e9e spy), according to Lib\u00e9ration and Mediapart. Related: Barack Obama and surveillance reform: a story of vacillation, caution and fear The recorded conversations, which were handled by the summary services unit at the NSA, were said to reveal few state secrets but show clear evidence of the extent of American spying on countries considered allies. WikiLeaks documents suggest that other US spy targets included French cabinet ministers and the French ambassador to the US.\u201cThe documents contain the \u2018selectors\u2019 from the target list, detailing the cell phone numbers of numerous officials in the \u00c9lys\u00e9e up to and including the direct cell phone of the president,\u201d a report of the taps published in the French media revealed.In an article co-authored by Julian Assange, the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration pointed out that in matters of spying, there are no friends. It said: \u201cSpying abroad is the ultimate \u2018grey zone\u2019 in surveillance \u2013 it is also, in France, the real blind spot of the planned law on surveillance, expected to be adopted this Wednesday.\u201dMediapart said: \u201cFor almost 10 years, the United States has listened in to French presidents \u2026 it was all classed top secret or \u2018special intelligence\u2019.US media cited a statement from the NSA saying it was not targeting and would not target Hollande\u2019s communications. The statement did not deny spying had taken place in the past.Le Point magazine pointed out that France spends about \u20ac1bn (\u00a3700m) a year on its secret and intelligence services, compared with \u20ac60bn the US spends. It said this illustrated a \u201cdifference of means, but not of methods\u201d and said the WikiLeaks revelations were nothing new.\u201cThe secret and intelligence services have always had the role of discovering and sending to political leaders, diplomats and military personnel information allowing them to make their decisions,\u201d it wrote. \u201cThe brutal fact is, being allies over one thing doesn\u2019t mean we share everything or hold back on spying on our little friend.\u201dBernard Debr\u00e9, a member of Sarkozy\u2019s opposition Republican party, went further, writing on his blog: \u201cPoliticians are astonished to have been spied on by the Americans! It\u2019s a bloody hypocrisy. For years everyone has been listened in on by the NSA, the NSA has been accused by senators and governors and has drastically reduced its activity \u2026 and at the same time, France is going in the opposite direction.\u201dArnaud Danjean, a former member of France\u2019s intelligence service, the DGSE, and now a Euro MP for the Republican party, said there was nothing new in the revelations.\u201cIt\u2019s all very emotional, but on a technical and geopolitical level there\u2019s nothing new in reporting that spies are spying. Being an ally doesn\u2019t mean that you tell each other everything,\u201d Danjean told France Info.\u201cWhen one is a diplomat, one knows one is a target. When you\u2019re someone in the public sphere, you start from the principle that foreign countries are interested in you, you take defensive measures as a result.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "NSA", "Surveillance", "WikiLeaks", "US news"], "title": "France summons US ambassador over 'unacceptable' spying"},{"date": "2015-06-26T16:56:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "A volley of terror attacks has struck across three continents, leaving dozens dead in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, just days after the militant group Islamic State issued a call to arms for the holy month of Ramadan.Near-simultaneous attacks targeted tourists at a hotel resort in Tunisia and Shia worshippers in a mosque in Kuwait, and, reportedly, a delivery company boss at a factory in France.The trio of attacks marks a new low point in the global terror onslaught. In Tunisia, at least 37 people were shot dead in the country\u2019s deadliest terrorist attack. In Kuwait, 25 were killed and more than 200 injured in a suicide bomb \u2013 the first attack in the country since 2005. In France, the victim was decapitated, the first time that grim method had been used in the country. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Kuwait incident, but the affiliation and inspiration of the other attackers remained unclear. Isis\u2019s chief spokesman, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, called on jihadists earlier this week to \u201cmake the month of Ramadan a calamity on the apostates\u201d by stepping up attacks and seeking \u201cmartyrdom\u201d.All three attacks were launched early on Friday morning.In Tunisia, the health minister said 37 people were killed and 36 wounded \u2013 mostly tourists \u2013 in an attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel at the beach resort town of Sousse, about 93 miles south of Tunis. The gunman approached the resort from the beach, opening fire on sunbathing tourists, before entering the hotel through the pool area. Many of the victims were thought to be British, German and Belgian. The gunman was killed. Suspected accomplices were arrested.In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yassin Salhi, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yessim Salim, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. ", "tags": ["Tunisia", "Kuwait", "Islamic State", "France", "Africa", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France stun three continents"},{"date": "2015-06-26T15:14:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Three different attacks, one overall suspect. The wave of killing on Friday will undoubtedly be attributed to Islamic State, which has already reportedly claimed responsibility for one amongst them, with strong indications of a role in the others.Each attack hit a different target in a different way, and underlines the varied nature of a constantly evolving threat.One involved Muslims killing Muslims in the Middle East itself: a bomb in a Shia mosque in Kuwait, a conservative Gulf state with a Sunni Muslim majority. This is part of the horrendous sectarian violence which has increasingly convulsed the region over the last five years and shows no sign of abating. Outright war against Shias \u2013 seen as apostates by Islamic State \u2013 is a core aim of the terrorist organisation which goes back to its origins in Iraq a decade or more ago. This is a reminder that the vast proportion of casualties of terrorism are Muslims killed by co-religionists.The second targeted western tourists in Tunisia. Hotels and holidaymakers have been a frequent target in recent years. Western tourists are both an obvious and vulnerable presence in the Islamic world. An attack on a hotel will attract global attention, mark a group\u2019s influence and badly damage the local tourist industry. Historically such attacks have undermined local support but it seems unlikely Friday\u2019s attackers would have been bothered by this. The prime suspects for the Sousse attack are militants belonging to fragmented local groups, possibly based in neighbouring Libya and loyal to Isis. Third was the attack on a US-owned gas cylinder plant in south-east France. The culprit in this strike appears to have worked for the victim\u2019s company, but the French have nevertheless launched a terror investigation. He also appears to fit a profile that has become well established in recent years: a French male aged between 22 and 35 who was either born overseas before coming to France or whose parents migrated from Algeria or Morocco. Some of these attackers have had links to overseas groups; while others have been closer to the classic idea of \u201clone wolves\u201d. But all have been steeped in a broader environment of violent activism, extreme conservatism, homophobia and anti-semitism for many years before they acted. They are \u201clone actors\u201d only in terms of the actual organisation and execution of a terrorist attack; their world view is shared by a significant number of people. An increasing number have either been inspired by, or actually fought for, Islamic State. When propagandists of the group tell individuals their duty is to take up arms in European countries \u2013 especially against the \u201cfilthy French\u201d \u2013 they know already how receptive some will be to their call to arms.The three strikes came almost exactly on the first anniversary of Islamic State\u2019s declaration of its caliphate, and it is possible they were coordinated. If so, it would indicate a new level of strategic thinking and capability for Isis. If not, they nevertheless send a potent message: terrorists hope to to give the impression that they can strike at will, everywhere, anywhere.This is clearly not the case: the attack in Europe involved one man; the one in Tunis, a gunman or two. We are still far from the mass casualty attacks of 10 or 12 years ago in Europe. We are also far from the doomsday scenario of highly trained Isis militants making their way to the UK, US or wherever to execute major operations.But the sense of ubiquitous menace inevitably induced by Friday\u2019s killings will be difficult to dispel.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "World news"], "title": "Terror attacks in Kuwait, France and Tunisia echo Isis methods"},{"date": "2015-06-27T11:48:16Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has held a second emergency defence council meeting after the decapitation of a company boss in the south-east of France and the attacks in Tunisia and Kuwait.Hollande returned immediately to Paris from an official visit in Brussels on Friday and the prime minister, Manuel Valls, cut short a visit to South America for the crisis summit that followed the raising of the country\u2019s security alert level.Valls warned that France faced more attacks after the gruesome killing on Friday which came less than six months after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine and a kosher supermarket in Paris that left 17 people, including two police officers, dead.\u201cIt\u2019s difficult for a society to live for years under the threat of attack,\u201d he told French journalists. \u201cThe question is not if there will be another attack \u2026 but when.\u201dPolice were still questioning suspected attacker Yassin Salhi and three members of his family, including his wife, who were taken into custody on Friday.In Tunisia, the death toll from the attack on tourists at a beach and luxury hotel was said to have reached 39 people, including eight Britons.Locals in the small village of Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near where the Frenchman was decapitated, reportedly by one of his employees, held a minute\u2019s silence as more details of the gruesome French assassination emerged.Salhi, a 35-year-old father of three, is suspected to have driven to the Air Products depot at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, a short drive from Lyon, in a Peugeot Boxer around 9.28am local time on Friday.The suspect then allegedly rang at the gate of the depot belonging to the US-based company, which stocked liquid gas for industrial use, and showed a badge that gave him the authority to enter into the first security zone.Salhi had become known to police in 2006 after attending meetings held by a radical preacher in the Doubs area of western France where he was born, and was placed on a security watchlist classed as \u201cFiche S\u201d (for \u201cstate security\u201d). He was rated at 13 on a scale of 16, but his name appears to have been dropped when the list was renewed two years later. He had no criminal record.CCTV cameras show the driver suddenly accelerating into a second gate around a more protected area and ramming into gas tanks. Injured in the crash, he managed to get out of his car and ran into a covered hanger filled with bottles of liquid air, gas and acetone.He then opened the valves on the bottles before trying to set them alight, when firefighters arrived.After an explosion and the start of a fire, an emergency firefighter confronted the suspect at around 10am and attempted to stop him by grappling him to the ground and holding him until local gendarmes could arrive.As they pulled up at the depot, gendarmes were horrified to find a decapitated head attached by a chain to a gate inside the depot, covered with two large black-and-white banners covered in Arab writing that appeared to correspond to the Shahada (the Muslim profession of faith).Near the Peugeot Boxer, which had been seriously damaged by the gas explosion, lay the headless body. A knife was found nearby. Related: France attack: terror inquiry launched and suspect arrested \u2013 as it happened The victim was named as Herv\u00e9 Cornara, aged 54, the commercial director of ATC Transport, a delivery company where Salhi worked as a driver since March. Police said it appeared the victim had been decapitated before Salhi drove into the depot.While beheading is a trademark of Islamic State (Isis), investigators have not confirmed whether the suspect had direct links or strong sympathies with the Islamist terror group.The Air Products site was on the EU Seveso list, meaning it contained potentially risky industrial material, but that the hazard was limited.Salhi was born on 25 March, 1980 to a Moroccan-born mother and an Algerian-born father, who was a factory worker. According to Le Parisien, the family showed no signs of religious fervour until after the father died of a heart attack and the mother started wearing a headscarf and her sons allegedly grew beards. Shortly afterwards, the mother returned to Morocco.The local newspaper, L\u2019Est R\u00e9publicain, reported that at the beginning of the 2000s, Salhi became close to a radical Islamic preacher at Pontarlier, in Doubs, who was nicknamed \u201cGrand Ali\u201d. Ali, an Islamic convert, was suspected of involvement in an attack in Indonesia. In 2004, Salhi came to the attention of the intelligence services, and was placed on the Fiche S for his alleged radicalisation and \u201clinks to a Salafist movement\u201d. This Fiche S was dropped in 2008.Salhi and his wife and three children moved briefly to Besan\u00e7on, the capital of Doubs, where he was said to continue to meet with Salafis, then to Saint Priest, near Lyon. His colleagues and neighbours said he never spoke about religion. Because of his continued connections with Salafis, his name was picked up again by the French intelligence services in 2013 and 2014. The Direction G\u00e9n\u00e9rale de la S\u00e9curit\u00e9 (DGSE), France\u2019s intelligence service, apparently wanted to put his telephone under surveillance, but could not find any line registered to him or any member of his family.There is no evidence or suggestion as yet his wife or sister knew anything about the attack at Air Products.The US-based head of the company, Seifi Ghasemi, expressed \u201call his sympathy for the victim of the attack\u201d on Saturday. \u201cI am horrified and terribly saddened by this attack on one of our plants in France. I think I speak for all staff at Air Products across the world in expressing our profound sympathy for the family of the victim of this undescribable act,\u201d Ghasemi said.", "tags": ["France", "Islamic State", "World news", "Europe", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France attack: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds second crisis summit"},{"date": "2015-06-26T19:58:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Witnesses have described the horror and chaos of the gun attack on sunbathing holidaymakers in Tunisia that left at least 39 people dead and 36 injured.At least five British tourists and an Irishwoman died in the attack. Philip Hammond, the British foreign secretary, said the British death toll was likely to rise.The assault in Tunisia took place within hours of two other suspected Islamist attacks in France and Kuwait. One man was detained near Lyon, south-eastern France, after the severed head of his former employer was hung from the gates of a gas factory. French officials said the man had been known to intelligence services.In Kuwait City, a suicide bomber attacked a Shia mosque, killing 27 worshippers. Responsibility for the bombing was later claimed by the Islamic State group. There is no evidence that the three attacks were coordinated or connected.The shootings in Tunisia took place at about midday in the resort of Sousse, 93 miles (150km) south of Tunis on the country\u2019s east coast. Tourists fled from the beach and barricaded themselves in their hotel rooms after a gunman opened fire on the crowded beach before moving into the pool area of the five-star Imperial Marhaba hotel while firing at tourists, witnesses said.One suspected gunman was shot dead at the scene, and reports suggested another suspect was apprehended.Of the attack in Sousse, Mohamed Ali Aroui, a spokesman for the Tunisian interior ministry, said: \u201cThe perpetrator of the operation was killed, but \u2026 there could have been more of them. Whether there were other elements with him, we can\u2019t confirm or deny.\u201dAn official from the country\u2019s health ministry said Britons, Germans, Belgians and Tunisians were among the dead. \u201cThere are still some people we have not identified yet, but we are working on it,\u201d the official said. A foreign ministry spokesman said that at least 11 Britons, three Belgians and a German were among the wounded.The Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel, where the shootings took place, said the majority of the 565 guests at the hotel were from the UK and central European countries.One couple from Kent told the Guardian they had been relaxing on their sunbeds when they heard what they believed at first to be fireworks, and saw a man running along the sand with what looked like a machine gun.\u201cHe was shouting something, I don\u2019t know what he was shouting,\u201d said Glenn Whitehead, a scaffolder from Swanley, Kent. He shouted at his wife Anita to run, as bullets flew around them. A person lying next to them fell dead, he said. The couple heard bullets close to their head, and Mrs Whitehead tripped in the sand as others ran screaming beside them. Staff from the hotel\u2019s spa beckoned them inside, where about 20 other tourists and staff were waiting. The couple said they waited for perhaps 20 minutes before they were led outside by staff, to find bodies lying by the hotel pool and in the foyer, amid pools of blood.\u201cI looked around the beach and all I could see were dead people covered in towels,\u201d said Mr Whitehead. There was also a body on the sunbed next to the ones they had been using. \u201cWhere we were lying were a German mother and daughter. When I got back one of them was covered over, dead.\u201d\u201cThere was a lot of people who couldn\u2019t get off their sunbeds,\u201d his wife said. \u201cThey were elderly.\u201dWitnesses told the Guardian that a British man had been killed while sunbathing on the beach as his wife packed their bags in their room ahead of their planned departure on Friday. Another British woman described how her fianc\u00e9 was shot three times as he lay next to her on a sunbed, using his own body to shield her from the bullets. Sarah Wilson, from Pontypridd in south Wales, said her partner Matthew James was shot as the gunman opened fire, throwing himself in front of her before urging her to run for her life. He survived the assault but suffered wounds to his shoulder, chest and hip.\u201cWe were just on the sunbeds, messing around and having a nice time when we heard these sounds. The shooting had started and there was a man with a gun opening fire all around. It is hard to remember just exactly what was going on,\u201d she said. \u201cI only saw the one man in dark clothing but people were being shot.\u201cMatthew put himself in front of me then he was hit, he moved and the man shot him again. Again he tried to move and he was shot again. He was shouting and blood was pouring out all over. I was screaming and it was chaos as more shots were coming out.\u201cWe were down on the floor next to the sunbeds to shelter but the shots just kept on coming. He just told me to go, to look after our kids and that he loved me.\u201dShe fled to the hotel and hid in a cupboard until it was safe to emerge, hunting for two hours on the beach until she learned James had been taken to hospital, where he had life-saving surgery. \u201cI\u2019ve been to the hospital intensive care and I\u2019m just staying here on a chair now. His pelvis was shattered by the bullet and he also had a heart attack. But he is alive. I\u2019m just praying we can get out of here as soon as we can.\u201cThere are bodies everywhere, some covered in blankets and some not. You can\u2019t imagine how bad it is.\u201dRay Butler, a member of the Irish D\u00e1il, said he had spoken by telephone to the husband of a man from County Meath whose wife was shot dead on the beach while he was in the hotel inside. \u201cHe is absolutely distraught,\u201d Butler said. Charles Flanagan, the Irish minister of foreign affairs, confirmed that an Irish citizen had been killed.David Cameron broke off from the European council meeting in Brussels to offer his \u201csympathy and condolences and solidarity\u201d to Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the French president, and to Tunisia. \u201cThis is a threat that faces all of us \u2026 these events can happen anywhere,\u201d he said. Cameron pledged that Britain would do all it could to help, and insisted that the perpetrators were acting not in the name of Islam but \u201cin the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we must combat with everything we have\u201d.Speaking after he chaired a meeting of the UK government\u2019s Cobra crisis committee in London, Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, said: \u201cThe situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can\u2019t be sure exactly how many [victims there are] but because of the nature of the composition of the tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high proportion of those killed and injured will have been British.\u201cWe have had reports from families of those involved in the incident that allow us to confirm that at least five Britons have been killed in this incident, but I should warn that we must expect that there will be more reports of fatalities as we establish the detail on the ground.\u201d The British Foreign Office said it was urgently working with travel firms in Tunisia \u201cto gather and confirm information on those affected by this attack\u201d, and had despatched British embassy staff to the site of the atrocity.Speaking from the scene several hours after the attack, Tunisia\u2019s president, B\u00e9ji Ca\u00efd Essebsi, called for a global strategy to tackle terrorism and insisted that his country could not be left to face jihadis alone.The attack \u2013 the worst in Tunisia\u2019s modern history \u2013 is a devastating blow to a country whose economy relies heavily on western tourism, and comes only three months after another two gunmen murdered 21 people, including one Briton, in an assault on the Bardo National Museum, one of the country\u2019s leading tourist attractions. There were no immediate claims of responsibility.Sousse was also the scene of a failed suicide bombing attempt in October 2013, when a man was spotted approaching a hotel in a suicide vest and chased on to the empty beach, where he blew himself up.The country\u2019s tourist economy had taken a major blow in the aftermath of the 2011 \u201cJasmine\u201d revolution but with new elections in late 2014, was returning to stability. Tourist receipts in 2015 are already down by 15% on 2014 following the Bardo attack. By late afternoon, the corpses, most of them in black body bags, had been gathered by a bar and pavilion. The Guardian was shown several bodies of elderly tourists in shorts and bathing suits still lying where they had been killed. Others had been evacuated by the emergency services, using sunbeds as stretchers.Dazed tourists, clearly in shock, ordered beers from the terrace bar still dressed in their swimsuits. One man from had ordered lobster and was drinking a beer while cleaners mopped up blood around his feet. He said he had seen someone killed, but did not want to be named. Related: Tunisia: murder of holiday-makers in Sousse could kill tourism and hope Gary Pine, a product manager from Bristol who was staying at the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel, said he heard an estimated 20 to 30 shots before tourists ran to their hotels for cover. \u201cOver to our left, about 100 yards [90 metres] or so away, we saw what we thought was firecrackers going off,\u201d he told Sky News. \u201cBut you could see quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from the next resort along from us.\u201cOnly when you could start hearing bullets whizzing around your ear do you realise it was something a lot more serious than firecrackers.\u201cMy son was in the sea at the time and of course my wife and myself were shouting for him to get out of the sea quick and as we ran up the beach, he said: \u2018I just saw someone get shot.\u2019 As we exited the beach there was some kind of explosion from the complex next door. So we knew that a situation was developing, if not had ended.\u201dElizabeth O\u2019Brien, an Irish woman who was holidaying with her two sons, said she had heard what she initially thought was gunfire, before realising it was actually gunfire. \u201cSo I just ran to the sea to my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the waiters and the security on the beach started saying \u2018run, run, run!\u2019 and we just ran to our room.\u201d", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Tunisia", "Kuwait", "France", "Islamic State", "Africa", "Europe", "World news", "David Cameron", "Philip Hammond", "Politics", "Wales", "UK news", "Ireland"], "title": "Dozens killed as tourists recount horror of Tunisian beach massacre"},{"date": "2015-06-24T14:39:36Z", "country": "france", "content": " The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has described revelations that the US spied on three successive French presidents as unacceptable and said Paris would not tolerate actions that threaten its security.The US ambassador was summoned to the foreign ministry for an explanation after WikiLeaks documents published late on Tuesday showed that the US had bugged French leaders\u2019 telephones.  Related: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds emergency meeting after WikiLeaks claims US spied on three French presidents But Hollande\u2019s government faces accusations of hypocrisy, with MPs due to vote through a law later on Wednesday that would give intelligence agencies sweeping new powers to snoop on French people.The bill allows phone and email intercepts without the approval of a judge, seen by critics as a serious threat to individual freedom and privacy. The French authorities argue the measures are necessary following the attacks on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine and a Kosher supermarket in January. It was not clear whether the timing of the WikiLeaks release was deliberate. The revelation that the US National Security Agency (NSA) had spied on three presidents \u2013 Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and Hollande \u2013 caused outrage and indignation in France and prompted Hollande to call an emergency defence council meeting on Wednesday morning.A statement after the crisis summit, described by France\u2019s prime minister, Manuel Valls, as being \u201cfull of emotion and anger\u201d, blasted US snooping as unacceptable and demanded it stop.\u201cFrance will not tolerate actions that threaten its security and the protection of its interests,\u201d the French president\u2019s office said, adding that US spying allegations had surfaced in the past.\u201cThese are unacceptable facts that have already been the subject of clarification between the US and France, notably at the end of 2013 when the first revelations were made and during a state visit by the president of the republic to the United States in February 2014. Commitments were made by the US authorities. They need to be recalled and strictly respected.\u201d Hollande\u2019s office said the French president had phoned Obama on Wednesday afternoon. \u201cThe exchange was a chance to emphasise the principles that must govern relations between allies in matters of intelligence,\u201d said Hollande\u2019s office. \u201cPresident Obama clearly reiterated the firm pledge he made in November 2013, after the Snowden affair, and which was repeated during the state visit [by Hollande] in February 2014, to end practices that might have operated in the past but which are unacceptable between allies.\u201cFrench intelligence officials will very soon travel to Washington to increase cooperation.\u201dThe French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, summoned the US ambassador, Jane Hartley, to the foreign office. And government spokesman St\u00e9phane Le Foll announced a senior French intelligence official would visit the US in the coming days for further discussions with American counterparts.\u201cWe find it hard to understand or imagine what motivates an ally to spy on allies who are often on the same strategic positions in world affairs,\u201d Le Foll added.The revelations were first reported in French daily Lib\u00e9ration and on news website Mediapart, which said the NSA spied on Chirac, Sarkozy and Hollande from at least 2006 until May 2012.Hollande held a second crisis meeting with parliamentary groups at his \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace offices on Wednesday afternoon. Afterwards, Valls told MPs the \u201csystematic and continued\u201d spying on foreign leaders by America was \u201cunacceptable and abnormal\u201d. Valls said he could reassure MPs that France did not eavesdrop on the leaders of European and allied countries.\u201cOur country is loyal and knows the historical debt it owes America, but this gratitude cannot prevent us from protecting our country and citizens,\u201d he said.The leaked US documents, marked top secret, were based on phone taps and filed in an NSA document labelled \u201cEspionnage \u00c9lys\u00e9e\u201d (\u00c9lys\u00e9e spy), according to Lib\u00e9ration and Mediapart. Related: Barack Obama and surveillance reform: a story of vacillation, caution and fear The recorded conversations, which were handled by the summary services unit at the NSA, were said to reveal few state secrets but show clear evidence of the extent of American spying on countries considered allies. WikiLeaks documents suggest that other US spy targets included French cabinet ministers and the French ambassador to the US.\u201cThe documents contain the \u2018selectors\u2019 from the target list, detailing the cell phone numbers of numerous officials in the \u00c9lys\u00e9e up to and including the direct cell phone of the president,\u201d a report of the taps published in the French media revealed.In an article co-authored by Julian Assange, the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration pointed out that in matters of spying, there are no friends. It said: \u201cSpying abroad is the ultimate \u2018grey zone\u2019 in surveillance \u2013 it is also, in France, the real blind spot of the planned law on surveillance, expected to be adopted this Wednesday.\u201dMediapart said: \u201cFor almost 10 years, the United States has listened in to French presidents \u2026 it was all classed top secret or \u2018special intelligence\u2019.US media cited a statement from the NSA saying it was not targeting and would not target Hollande\u2019s communications. The statement did not deny spying had taken place in the past.Le Point magazine pointed out that France spends about \u20ac1bn (\u00a3700m) a year on its secret and intelligence services, compared with \u20ac60bn the US spends. It said this illustrated a \u201cdifference of means, but not of methods\u201d and said the WikiLeaks revelations were nothing new.\u201cThe secret and intelligence services have always had the role of discovering and sending to political leaders, diplomats and military personnel information allowing them to make their decisions,\u201d it wrote. \u201cThe brutal fact is, being allies over one thing doesn\u2019t mean we share everything or hold back on spying on our little friend.\u201dBernard Debr\u00e9, a member of Sarkozy\u2019s opposition Republican party, went further, writing on his blog: \u201cPoliticians are astonished to have been spied on by the Americans! It\u2019s a bloody hypocrisy. For years everyone has been listened in on by the NSA, the NSA has been accused by senators and governors and has drastically reduced its activity \u2026 and at the same time, France is going in the opposite direction.\u201dArnaud Danjean, a former member of France\u2019s intelligence service, the DGSE, and now a Euro MP for the Republican party, said there was nothing new in the revelations.\u201cIt\u2019s all very emotional, but on a technical and geopolitical level there\u2019s nothing new in reporting that spies are spying. Being an ally doesn\u2019t mean that you tell each other everything,\u201d Danjean told France Info.\u201cWhen one is a diplomat, one knows one is a target. When you\u2019re someone in the public sphere, you start from the principle that foreign countries are interested in you, you take defensive measures as a result.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "NSA", "Surveillance", "WikiLeaks", "US news"], "title": "France summons US ambassador over 'unacceptable' spying"},{"date": "2015-06-26T16:56:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "A volley of terror attacks has struck across three continents, leaving dozens dead in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, just days after the militant group Islamic State issued a call to arms for the holy month of Ramadan.Near-simultaneous attacks targeted tourists at a hotel resort in Tunisia and Shia worshippers in a mosque in Kuwait, and, reportedly, a delivery company boss at a factory in France.The trio of attacks marks a new low point in the global terror onslaught. In Tunisia, at least 37 people were shot dead in the country\u2019s deadliest terrorist attack. In Kuwait, 25 were killed and more than 200 injured in a suicide bomb \u2013 the first attack in the country since 2005. In France, the victim was decapitated, the first time that grim method had been used in the country. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Kuwait incident, but the affiliation and inspiration of the other attackers remained unclear. Isis\u2019s chief spokesman, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, called on jihadists earlier this week to \u201cmake the month of Ramadan a calamity on the apostates\u201d by stepping up attacks and seeking \u201cmartyrdom\u201d.All three attacks were launched early on Friday morning.In Tunisia, the health minister said 37 people were killed and 36 wounded \u2013 mostly tourists \u2013 in an attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel at the beach resort town of Sousse, about 93 miles south of Tunis. The gunman approached the resort from the beach, opening fire on sunbathing tourists, before entering the hotel through the pool area. Many of the victims were thought to be British, German and Belgian. The gunman was killed. Suspected accomplices were arrested.In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yassin Salhi, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yessim Salim, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. ", "tags": ["Tunisia", "Kuwait", "Islamic State", "France", "Africa", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France stun three continents"},{"date": "2015-06-26T15:14:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Three different attacks, one overall suspect. The wave of killing on Friday will undoubtedly be attributed to Islamic State, which has already reportedly claimed responsibility for one amongst them, with strong indications of a role in the others.Each attack hit a different target in a different way, and underlines the varied nature of a constantly evolving threat.One involved Muslims killing Muslims in the Middle East itself: a bomb in a Shia mosque in Kuwait, a conservative Gulf state with a Sunni Muslim majority. This is part of the horrendous sectarian violence which has increasingly convulsed the region over the last five years and shows no sign of abating. Outright war against Shias \u2013 seen as apostates by Islamic State \u2013 is a core aim of the terrorist organisation which goes back to its origins in Iraq a decade or more ago. This is a reminder that the vast proportion of casualties of terrorism are Muslims killed by co-religionists.The second targeted western tourists in Tunisia. Hotels and holidaymakers have been a frequent target in recent years. Western tourists are both an obvious and vulnerable presence in the Islamic world. An attack on a hotel will attract global attention, mark a group\u2019s influence and badly damage the local tourist industry. Historically such attacks have undermined local support but it seems unlikely Friday\u2019s attackers would have been bothered by this. The prime suspects for the Sousse attack are militants belonging to fragmented local groups, possibly based in neighbouring Libya and loyal to Isis. Third was the attack on a US-owned gas cylinder plant in south-east France. The culprit in this strike appears to have worked for the victim\u2019s company, but the French have nevertheless launched a terror investigation. He also appears to fit a profile that has become well established in recent years: a French male aged between 22 and 35 who was either born overseas before coming to France or whose parents migrated from Algeria or Morocco. Some of these attackers have had links to overseas groups; while others have been closer to the classic idea of \u201clone wolves\u201d. But all have been steeped in a broader environment of violent activism, extreme conservatism, homophobia and anti-semitism for many years before they acted. They are \u201clone actors\u201d only in terms of the actual organisation and execution of a terrorist attack; their world view is shared by a significant number of people. An increasing number have either been inspired by, or actually fought for, Islamic State. When propagandists of the group tell individuals their duty is to take up arms in European countries \u2013 especially against the \u201cfilthy French\u201d \u2013 they know already how receptive some will be to their call to arms.The three strikes came almost exactly on the first anniversary of Islamic State\u2019s declaration of its caliphate, and it is possible they were coordinated. If so, it would indicate a new level of strategic thinking and capability for Isis. If not, they nevertheless send a potent message: terrorists hope to to give the impression that they can strike at will, everywhere, anywhere.This is clearly not the case: the attack in Europe involved one man; the one in Tunis, a gunman or two. We are still far from the mass casualty attacks of 10 or 12 years ago in Europe. We are also far from the doomsday scenario of highly trained Isis militants making their way to the UK, US or wherever to execute major operations.But the sense of ubiquitous menace inevitably induced by Friday\u2019s killings will be difficult to dispel.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "World news"], "title": "Terror attacks in Kuwait, France and Tunisia echo Isis methods"},{"date": "2015-06-27T11:48:16Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has held a second emergency defence council meeting after the decapitation of a company boss in the south-east of France and the attacks in Tunisia and Kuwait.Hollande returned immediately to Paris from an official visit in Brussels on Friday and the prime minister, Manuel Valls, cut short a visit to South America for the crisis summit that followed the raising of the country\u2019s security alert level.Valls warned that France faced more attacks after the gruesome killing on Friday which came less than six months after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine and a kosher supermarket in Paris that left 17 people, including two police officers, dead.\u201cIt\u2019s difficult for a society to live for years under the threat of attack,\u201d he told French journalists. \u201cThe question is not if there will be another attack \u2026 but when.\u201dPolice were still questioning suspected attacker Yassin Salhi and three members of his family, including his wife, who were taken into custody on Friday.In Tunisia, the death toll from the attack on tourists at a beach and luxury hotel was said to have reached 39 people, including eight Britons.Locals in the small village of Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near where the Frenchman was decapitated, reportedly by one of his employees, held a minute\u2019s silence as more details of the gruesome French assassination emerged.Salhi, a 35-year-old father of three, is suspected to have driven to the Air Products depot at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, a short drive from Lyon, in a Peugeot Boxer around 9.28am local time on Friday.The suspect then allegedly rang at the gate of the depot belonging to the US-based company, which stocked liquid gas for industrial use, and showed a badge that gave him the authority to enter into the first security zone.Salhi had become known to police in 2006 after attending meetings held by a radical preacher in the Doubs area of western France where he was born, and was placed on a security watchlist classed as \u201cFiche S\u201d (for \u201cstate security\u201d). He was rated at 13 on a scale of 16, but his name appears to have been dropped when the list was renewed two years later. He had no criminal record.CCTV cameras show the driver suddenly accelerating into a second gate around a more protected area and ramming into gas tanks. Injured in the crash, he managed to get out of his car and ran into a covered hanger filled with bottles of liquid air, gas and acetone.He then opened the valves on the bottles before trying to set them alight, when firefighters arrived.After an explosion and the start of a fire, an emergency firefighter confronted the suspect at around 10am and attempted to stop him by grappling him to the ground and holding him until local gendarmes could arrive.As they pulled up at the depot, gendarmes were horrified to find a decapitated head attached by a chain to a gate inside the depot, covered with two large black-and-white banners covered in Arab writing that appeared to correspond to the Shahada (the Muslim profession of faith).Near the Peugeot Boxer, which had been seriously damaged by the gas explosion, lay the headless body. A knife was found nearby. Related: France attack: terror inquiry launched and suspect arrested \u2013 as it happened The victim was named as Herv\u00e9 Cornara, aged 54, the commercial director of ATC Transport, a delivery company where Salhi worked as a driver since March. Police said it appeared the victim had been decapitated before Salhi drove into the depot.While beheading is a trademark of Islamic State (Isis), investigators have not confirmed whether the suspect had direct links or strong sympathies with the Islamist terror group.The Air Products site was on the EU Seveso list, meaning it contained potentially risky industrial material, but that the hazard was limited.Salhi was born on 25 March, 1980 to a Moroccan-born mother and an Algerian-born father, who was a factory worker. According to Le Parisien, the family showed no signs of religious fervour until after the father died of a heart attack and the mother started wearing a headscarf and her sons allegedly grew beards. Shortly afterwards, the mother returned to Morocco.The local newspaper, L\u2019Est R\u00e9publicain, reported that at the beginning of the 2000s, Salhi became close to a radical Islamic preacher at Pontarlier, in Doubs, who was nicknamed \u201cGrand Ali\u201d. Ali, an Islamic convert, was suspected of involvement in an attack in Indonesia. In 2004, Salhi came to the attention of the intelligence services, and was placed on the Fiche S for his alleged radicalisation and \u201clinks to a Salafist movement\u201d. This Fiche S was dropped in 2008.Salhi and his wife and three children moved briefly to Besan\u00e7on, the capital of Doubs, where he was said to continue to meet with Salafis, then to Saint Priest, near Lyon. His colleagues and neighbours said he never spoke about religion. Because of his continued connections with Salafis, his name was picked up again by the French intelligence services in 2013 and 2014. The Direction G\u00e9n\u00e9rale de la S\u00e9curit\u00e9 (DGSE), France\u2019s intelligence service, apparently wanted to put his telephone under surveillance, but could not find any line registered to him or any member of his family.There is no evidence or suggestion as yet his wife or sister knew anything about the attack at Air Products.The US-based head of the company, Seifi Ghasemi, expressed \u201call his sympathy for the victim of the attack\u201d on Saturday. \u201cI am horrified and terribly saddened by this attack on one of our plants in France. I think I speak for all staff at Air Products across the world in expressing our profound sympathy for the family of the victim of this undescribable act,\u201d Ghasemi said.", "tags": ["France", "Islamic State", "World news", "Europe", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France attack: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds second crisis summit"},{"date": "2015-06-26T19:58:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Witnesses have described the horror and chaos of the gun attack on sunbathing holidaymakers in Tunisia that left at least 39 people dead and 36 injured.At least five British tourists and an Irishwoman died in the attack. Philip Hammond, the British foreign secretary, said the British death toll was likely to rise.The assault in Tunisia took place within hours of two other suspected Islamist attacks in France and Kuwait. One man was detained near Lyon, south-eastern France, after the severed head of his former employer was hung from the gates of a gas factory. French officials said the man had been known to intelligence services.In Kuwait City, a suicide bomber attacked a Shia mosque, killing 27 worshippers. Responsibility for the bombing was later claimed by the Islamic State group. There is no evidence that the three attacks were coordinated or connected.The shootings in Tunisia took place at about midday in the resort of Sousse, 93 miles (150km) south of Tunis on the country\u2019s east coast. Tourists fled from the beach and barricaded themselves in their hotel rooms after a gunman opened fire on the crowded beach before moving into the pool area of the five-star Imperial Marhaba hotel while firing at tourists, witnesses said.One suspected gunman was shot dead at the scene, and reports suggested another suspect was apprehended.Of the attack in Sousse, Mohamed Ali Aroui, a spokesman for the Tunisian interior ministry, said: \u201cThe perpetrator of the operation was killed, but \u2026 there could have been more of them. Whether there were other elements with him, we can\u2019t confirm or deny.\u201dAn official from the country\u2019s health ministry said Britons, Germans, Belgians and Tunisians were among the dead. \u201cThere are still some people we have not identified yet, but we are working on it,\u201d the official said. A foreign ministry spokesman said that at least 11 Britons, three Belgians and a German were among the wounded.The Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel, where the shootings took place, said the majority of the 565 guests at the hotel were from the UK and central European countries.One couple from Kent told the Guardian they had been relaxing on their sunbeds when they heard what they believed at first to be fireworks, and saw a man running along the sand with what looked like a machine gun.\u201cHe was shouting something, I don\u2019t know what he was shouting,\u201d said Glenn Whitehead, a scaffolder from Swanley, Kent. He shouted at his wife Anita to run, as bullets flew around them. A person lying next to them fell dead, he said. The couple heard bullets close to their head, and Mrs Whitehead tripped in the sand as others ran screaming beside them. Staff from the hotel\u2019s spa beckoned them inside, where about 20 other tourists and staff were waiting. The couple said they waited for perhaps 20 minutes before they were led outside by staff, to find bodies lying by the hotel pool and in the foyer, amid pools of blood.\u201cI looked around the beach and all I could see were dead people covered in towels,\u201d said Mr Whitehead. There was also a body on the sunbed next to the ones they had been using. \u201cWhere we were lying were a German mother and daughter. When I got back one of them was covered over, dead.\u201d\u201cThere was a lot of people who couldn\u2019t get off their sunbeds,\u201d his wife said. \u201cThey were elderly.\u201dWitnesses told the Guardian that a British man had been killed while sunbathing on the beach as his wife packed their bags in their room ahead of their planned departure on Friday. Another British woman described how her fianc\u00e9 was shot three times as he lay next to her on a sunbed, using his own body to shield her from the bullets. Sarah Wilson, from Pontypridd in south Wales, said her partner Matthew James was shot as the gunman opened fire, throwing himself in front of her before urging her to run for her life. He survived the assault but suffered wounds to his shoulder, chest and hip.\u201cWe were just on the sunbeds, messing around and having a nice time when we heard these sounds. The shooting had started and there was a man with a gun opening fire all around. It is hard to remember just exactly what was going on,\u201d she said. \u201cI only saw the one man in dark clothing but people were being shot.\u201cMatthew put himself in front of me then he was hit, he moved and the man shot him again. Again he tried to move and he was shot again. He was shouting and blood was pouring out all over. I was screaming and it was chaos as more shots were coming out.\u201cWe were down on the floor next to the sunbeds to shelter but the shots just kept on coming. He just told me to go, to look after our kids and that he loved me.\u201dShe fled to the hotel and hid in a cupboard until it was safe to emerge, hunting for two hours on the beach until she learned James had been taken to hospital, where he had life-saving surgery. \u201cI\u2019ve been to the hospital intensive care and I\u2019m just staying here on a chair now. His pelvis was shattered by the bullet and he also had a heart attack. But he is alive. I\u2019m just praying we can get out of here as soon as we can.\u201cThere are bodies everywhere, some covered in blankets and some not. You can\u2019t imagine how bad it is.\u201dRay Butler, a member of the Irish D\u00e1il, said he had spoken by telephone to the husband of a man from County Meath whose wife was shot dead on the beach while he was in the hotel inside. \u201cHe is absolutely distraught,\u201d Butler said. Charles Flanagan, the Irish minister of foreign affairs, confirmed that an Irish citizen had been killed.David Cameron broke off from the European council meeting in Brussels to offer his \u201csympathy and condolences and solidarity\u201d to Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the French president, and to Tunisia. \u201cThis is a threat that faces all of us \u2026 these events can happen anywhere,\u201d he said. Cameron pledged that Britain would do all it could to help, and insisted that the perpetrators were acting not in the name of Islam but \u201cin the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we must combat with everything we have\u201d.Speaking after he chaired a meeting of the UK government\u2019s Cobra crisis committee in London, Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, said: \u201cThe situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can\u2019t be sure exactly how many [victims there are] but because of the nature of the composition of the tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high proportion of those killed and injured will have been British.\u201cWe have had reports from families of those involved in the incident that allow us to confirm that at least five Britons have been killed in this incident, but I should warn that we must expect that there will be more reports of fatalities as we establish the detail on the ground.\u201d The British Foreign Office said it was urgently working with travel firms in Tunisia \u201cto gather and confirm information on those affected by this attack\u201d, and had despatched British embassy staff to the site of the atrocity.Speaking from the scene several hours after the attack, Tunisia\u2019s president, B\u00e9ji Ca\u00efd Essebsi, called for a global strategy to tackle terrorism and insisted that his country could not be left to face jihadis alone.The attack \u2013 the worst in Tunisia\u2019s modern history \u2013 is a devastating blow to a country whose economy relies heavily on western tourism, and comes only three months after another two gunmen murdered 21 people, including one Briton, in an assault on the Bardo National Museum, one of the country\u2019s leading tourist attractions. There were no immediate claims of responsibility.Sousse was also the scene of a failed suicide bombing attempt in October 2013, when a man was spotted approaching a hotel in a suicide vest and chased on to the empty beach, where he blew himself up.The country\u2019s tourist economy had taken a major blow in the aftermath of the 2011 \u201cJasmine\u201d revolution but with new elections in late 2014, was returning to stability. Tourist receipts in 2015 are already down by 15% on 2014 following the Bardo attack. By late afternoon, the corpses, most of them in black body bags, had been gathered by a bar and pavilion. The Guardian was shown several bodies of elderly tourists in shorts and bathing suits still lying where they had been killed. Others had been evacuated by the emergency services, using sunbeds as stretchers.Dazed tourists, clearly in shock, ordered beers from the terrace bar still dressed in their swimsuits. One man from had ordered lobster and was drinking a beer while cleaners mopped up blood around his feet. He said he had seen someone killed, but did not want to be named. Related: Tunisia: murder of holiday-makers in Sousse could kill tourism and hope Gary Pine, a product manager from Bristol who was staying at the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel, said he heard an estimated 20 to 30 shots before tourists ran to their hotels for cover. \u201cOver to our left, about 100 yards [90 metres] or so away, we saw what we thought was firecrackers going off,\u201d he told Sky News. \u201cBut you could see quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from the next resort along from us.\u201cOnly when you could start hearing bullets whizzing around your ear do you realise it was something a lot more serious than firecrackers.\u201cMy son was in the sea at the time and of course my wife and myself were shouting for him to get out of the sea quick and as we ran up the beach, he said: \u2018I just saw someone get shot.\u2019 As we exited the beach there was some kind of explosion from the complex next door. So we knew that a situation was developing, if not had ended.\u201dElizabeth O\u2019Brien, an Irish woman who was holidaying with her two sons, said she had heard what she initially thought was gunfire, before realising it was actually gunfire. \u201cSo I just ran to the sea to my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the waiters and the security on the beach started saying \u2018run, run, run!\u2019 and we just ran to our room.\u201d", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Tunisia", "Kuwait", "France", "Islamic State", "Africa", "Europe", "World news", "David Cameron", "Philip Hammond", "Politics", "Wales", "UK news", "Ireland"], "title": "Dozens killed as tourists recount horror of Tunisian beach massacre"},{"date": "2015-06-16T14:30:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "France must do more to tackle alcohol abuse and smoking, the country\u2019s health minister has said.Marisol Touraine said France was renowned for its healthcare but needed to do more in terms of preventing diseases. She said there was a very French form of denial over the hazards of alcohol, which is believed to cause an estimated 50,000 premature deaths a year in France.Touraine also said the number of French women who smoke \u2013 and particularly those who continue to do so in the last three months of pregnancy \u2013 as well as the number of young and poor who light up was worrying.Touraine said figures from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development showed the French consume an average 12 litres of pure alcohol a year, equivalent to about 120 bottles of wine, compared with a European average of 9.1 litres. \u201cI\u2019m French, I like to drink a glass of wine \u2026 but the wine and alcohol lobby in France is powerful and has got into people\u2019s heads that wine is good for the health, which remains to be proven,\u201d she told journalists from the Anglo-American Press Association in Paris. \u201cWe drink less than 30 years ago, but still above the European average.\u201dThe French government is battling attempts to water down a 1991 law that imposed restrictions on alcohol advertising. Touraine said the new challenge was \u201cdisguised advertising\u201d, citing a 2013 ruling that fined Paris Match for an article on the Hollywood actor Scarlett Johansson\u2019s deal with a celebrated French champagne house.I'm French, I like to drink a glass of wine \u2026 but the wine and alcohol lobby in France is powerful\u201cSo we see Mademoiselle Scarlett Johansson stretched out on a red sofa looking every bit the star she is, with a bottle in front of her on which we can see the brand label. The judges decided this was disguised advertising and should not be in a magazine, and it\u2019s claimed this threatens France\u2019s champagne industry,\u201c Touraine said. \u201cIt\u2019s just crazy. I\u2019m not trying to harden the law, I\u2019m saying don\u2019t touch it.\u201d Touraine, 56, whose broad portfolio in Fran\u00e7ois Hollande\u2019s Socialist government covers social affairs, health and women\u2019s rights, said: \u201cThere\u2019s a form of denial over this. In all my political career, I\u2019ve never known such passion over a subject. There will be a debate about wine in parliament at 4am and you think all the MPs will be at home asleep, but no, they turn up. It\u2019s a very French debate.\u201dFrance is to force tobacco companies to use plain packaging from 2016 in attempt to reduce the number of smokers. After successful campaigns to discourage smoking in the 1990s, the proportion of the adult population using tobacco rose to 30% between 2000 and 2013, Touraine said. She cited the success of Britain in reducing smoking levels to around 20% of over-15s.There will be a debate about wine in parliament at 4am and you think all the MPs will be asleep, but no\u200b\u200b, they turn up\u201cThere are three categories we have to tackle: women, because there is an increase in the number of female smokers, and France has the highest number who smoke in the last trimester of pregnancy; the young and the poor. I don\u2019t like introducing bans, but sometimes they are necessary,\u201d she said. Touraine is trying to push through health reforms but there have been protests by GPs, hospital doctors and other health workers. The minister said France\u2019s much-admired but costly health and social security system \u2013 the latter is deeply in the red \u2013 needed reorganising not just to make savings but to respond to changing public needs and demands.\u201cThere is a great malaise among GPs but that\u2019s not my fault. I\u2019m just the one who is uncovering it, the one saying you have to change the way you work,\u201d Touraine said. \u201cI think much of the opposition is based on the conservatism and opposition to change that is sometimes characteristic in France.\u201dShe said she was shocked by the virulence and \u201cextreme violence\u201d of the personal attacks, and claimed that \u201cinsidious sexism\u201d lay behind it. \u201cWe have to fight against it permanently but I have never played the [female] victim card and I will not do so. I do think some people believe I will give in more easily because I\u2019m a woman, and the fact I am determined and strong annoys them even more. But I am not afraid. \u201cI stand up to my responsibilities and I believe that makes me respected in my dealings with the medical unions and even in political circles. People may like me or they may not, but at least I am respected.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe", "Smoking", "Alcohol"], "title": "France in denial over alcohol abuse, says health minister"},{"date": "2015-06-24T14:39:36Z", "country": "france", "content": " The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has described revelations that the US spied on three successive French presidents as unacceptable and said Paris would not tolerate actions that threaten its security.The US ambassador was summoned to the foreign ministry for an explanation after WikiLeaks documents published late on Tuesday showed that the US had bugged French leaders\u2019 telephones.  Related: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds emergency meeting after WikiLeaks claims US spied on three French presidents But Hollande\u2019s government faces accusations of hypocrisy, with MPs due to vote through a law later on Wednesday that would give intelligence agencies sweeping new powers to snoop on French people.The bill allows phone and email intercepts without the approval of a judge, seen by critics as a serious threat to individual freedom and privacy. The French authorities argue the measures are necessary following the attacks on the offices of Charlie Hebdo magazine and a Kosher supermarket in January. It was not clear whether the timing of the WikiLeaks release was deliberate. The revelation that the US National Security Agency (NSA) had spied on three presidents \u2013 Jacques Chirac, Nicolas Sarkozy and Hollande \u2013 caused outrage and indignation in France and prompted Hollande to call an emergency defence council meeting on Wednesday morning.A statement after the crisis summit, described by France\u2019s prime minister, Manuel Valls, as being \u201cfull of emotion and anger\u201d, blasted US snooping as unacceptable and demanded it stop.\u201cFrance will not tolerate actions that threaten its security and the protection of its interests,\u201d the French president\u2019s office said, adding that US spying allegations had surfaced in the past.\u201cThese are unacceptable facts that have already been the subject of clarification between the US and France, notably at the end of 2013 when the first revelations were made and during a state visit by the president of the republic to the United States in February 2014. Commitments were made by the US authorities. They need to be recalled and strictly respected.\u201d Hollande\u2019s office said the French president had phoned Obama on Wednesday afternoon. \u201cThe exchange was a chance to emphasise the principles that must govern relations between allies in matters of intelligence,\u201d said Hollande\u2019s office. \u201cPresident Obama clearly reiterated the firm pledge he made in November 2013, after the Snowden affair, and which was repeated during the state visit [by Hollande] in February 2014, to end practices that might have operated in the past but which are unacceptable between allies.\u201cFrench intelligence officials will very soon travel to Washington to increase cooperation.\u201dThe French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, summoned the US ambassador, Jane Hartley, to the foreign office. And government spokesman St\u00e9phane Le Foll announced a senior French intelligence official would visit the US in the coming days for further discussions with American counterparts.\u201cWe find it hard to understand or imagine what motivates an ally to spy on allies who are often on the same strategic positions in world affairs,\u201d Le Foll added.The revelations were first reported in French daily Lib\u00e9ration and on news website Mediapart, which said the NSA spied on Chirac, Sarkozy and Hollande from at least 2006 until May 2012.Hollande held a second crisis meeting with parliamentary groups at his \u00c9lys\u00e9e Palace offices on Wednesday afternoon. Afterwards, Valls told MPs the \u201csystematic and continued\u201d spying on foreign leaders by America was \u201cunacceptable and abnormal\u201d. Valls said he could reassure MPs that France did not eavesdrop on the leaders of European and allied countries.\u201cOur country is loyal and knows the historical debt it owes America, but this gratitude cannot prevent us from protecting our country and citizens,\u201d he said.The leaked US documents, marked top secret, were based on phone taps and filed in an NSA document labelled \u201cEspionnage \u00c9lys\u00e9e\u201d (\u00c9lys\u00e9e spy), according to Lib\u00e9ration and Mediapart. Related: Barack Obama and surveillance reform: a story of vacillation, caution and fear The recorded conversations, which were handled by the summary services unit at the NSA, were said to reveal few state secrets but show clear evidence of the extent of American spying on countries considered allies. WikiLeaks documents suggest that other US spy targets included French cabinet ministers and the French ambassador to the US.\u201cThe documents contain the \u2018selectors\u2019 from the target list, detailing the cell phone numbers of numerous officials in the \u00c9lys\u00e9e up to and including the direct cell phone of the president,\u201d a report of the taps published in the French media revealed.In an article co-authored by Julian Assange, the French newspaper Lib\u00e9ration pointed out that in matters of spying, there are no friends. It said: \u201cSpying abroad is the ultimate \u2018grey zone\u2019 in surveillance \u2013 it is also, in France, the real blind spot of the planned law on surveillance, expected to be adopted this Wednesday.\u201dMediapart said: \u201cFor almost 10 years, the United States has listened in to French presidents \u2026 it was all classed top secret or \u2018special intelligence\u2019.US media cited a statement from the NSA saying it was not targeting and would not target Hollande\u2019s communications. The statement did not deny spying had taken place in the past.Le Point magazine pointed out that France spends about \u20ac1bn (\u00a3700m) a year on its secret and intelligence services, compared with \u20ac60bn the US spends. It said this illustrated a \u201cdifference of means, but not of methods\u201d and said the WikiLeaks revelations were nothing new.\u201cThe secret and intelligence services have always had the role of discovering and sending to political leaders, diplomats and military personnel information allowing them to make their decisions,\u201d it wrote. \u201cThe brutal fact is, being allies over one thing doesn\u2019t mean we share everything or hold back on spying on our little friend.\u201dBernard Debr\u00e9, a member of Sarkozy\u2019s opposition Republican party, went further, writing on his blog: \u201cPoliticians are astonished to have been spied on by the Americans! It\u2019s a bloody hypocrisy. For years everyone has been listened in on by the NSA, the NSA has been accused by senators and governors and has drastically reduced its activity \u2026 and at the same time, France is going in the opposite direction.\u201dArnaud Danjean, a former member of France\u2019s intelligence service, the DGSE, and now a Euro MP for the Republican party, said there was nothing new in the revelations.\u201cIt\u2019s all very emotional, but on a technical and geopolitical level there\u2019s nothing new in reporting that spies are spying. Being an ally doesn\u2019t mean that you tell each other everything,\u201d Danjean told France Info.\u201cWhen one is a diplomat, one knows one is a target. When you\u2019re someone in the public sphere, you start from the principle that foreign countries are interested in you, you take defensive measures as a result.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "Europe", "World news", "NSA", "Surveillance", "WikiLeaks", "US news"], "title": "France summons US ambassador over 'unacceptable' spying"},{"date": "2015-06-26T16:56:10Z", "country": "france", "content": "A volley of terror attacks has struck across three continents, leaving dozens dead in Tunisia, Kuwait and France, just days after the militant group Islamic State issued a call to arms for the holy month of Ramadan.Near-simultaneous attacks targeted tourists at a hotel resort in Tunisia and Shia worshippers in a mosque in Kuwait, and, reportedly, a delivery company boss at a factory in France.The trio of attacks marks a new low point in the global terror onslaught. In Tunisia, at least 37 people were shot dead in the country\u2019s deadliest terrorist attack. In Kuwait, 25 were killed and more than 200 injured in a suicide bomb \u2013 the first attack in the country since 2005. In France, the victim was decapitated, the first time that grim method had been used in the country. Islamic State claimed responsibility for the Kuwait incident, but the affiliation and inspiration of the other attackers remained unclear. Isis\u2019s chief spokesman, Abu Mohammad al-Adnani, called on jihadists earlier this week to \u201cmake the month of Ramadan a calamity on the apostates\u201d by stepping up attacks and seeking \u201cmartyrdom\u201d.All three attacks were launched early on Friday morning.In Tunisia, the health minister said 37 people were killed and 36 wounded \u2013 mostly tourists \u2013 in an attack on the Imperial Marhaba hotel at the beach resort town of Sousse, about 93 miles south of Tunis. The gunman approached the resort from the beach, opening fire on sunbathing tourists, before entering the hotel through the pool area. Many of the victims were thought to be British, German and Belgian. The gunman was killed. Suspected accomplices were arrested.In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yassin Salhi, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. In the Gulf state of Kuwait, Isis claimed responsibility for a suicide attack at the Imam al-Sadiq Shia mosque in the capital\u2019s centre, which killed 25 people and wounded 202, according to the emirate\u2019s interior ministry. A militant in a suicide vest blew himself up during Friday prayers. A statement circulated on social media said the attack had targeted a \u201cden of polytheism\u201d. Isis considers Shia Muslims apostates.In France, the government launched a terrorism investigation into an attack in which a man, thought to be the employer of the suspect, was decapitated and dumped at a factory belonging to an American gas company in the country\u2019s south-east. A suspect, believed to be called Yessim Salim, was taken into custody. The French interior minister said the suspect had at one time been under investigation for radicalisation, but had no police record.There was no evidence that the near-simultaneous attacks were coordinated, but they highlighted the growing threat of attacks by jihadists, some of them inspired by Isis rhetoric, across Europe, Africa and the Middle East.East Africa meanwhile remains prone to its own brand of Islamic extremism and, in Friday\u2019s fourth deadly outbreak of violence, the al-Qaida-linked al-Shabaab group attacked an African Union base in Somalia. There were some deaths, although precise numbers were unconfirmed.For Isis, the Kuwait attack \u2013 and even the suspicion of its involvement in the Tunisian and French episodes \u2013 is another propaganda coup despite its battlefield losses in Syria. The militants recently lost territory near their Raqqa stronghold in Syria to Kurdish and opposition fighters who have come within 30 miles of the city. They also launched suicidal attacks on the Kurdish enclave of Kobane, which was saved at great cost last year from an Isis onslaught.\u201cThis weekend, the story becomes Isis terror worldwide instead of Isis on the back foot,\u201d said Michael Weiss, the co-author of Isis: Inside the Army of Terror. \u201cInformation warfare is their greatest asset. ", "tags": ["Tunisia", "Kuwait", "Islamic State", "France", "Africa", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Terrorist attacks in Tunisia, Kuwait and France stun three continents"},{"date": "2015-06-26T15:14:01Z", "country": "france", "content": "Three different attacks, one overall suspect. The wave of killing on Friday will undoubtedly be attributed to Islamic State, which has already reportedly claimed responsibility for one amongst them, with strong indications of a role in the others.Each attack hit a different target in a different way, and underlines the varied nature of a constantly evolving threat.One involved Muslims killing Muslims in the Middle East itself: a bomb in a Shia mosque in Kuwait, a conservative Gulf state with a Sunni Muslim majority. This is part of the horrendous sectarian violence which has increasingly convulsed the region over the last five years and shows no sign of abating. Outright war against Shias \u2013 seen as apostates by Islamic State \u2013 is a core aim of the terrorist organisation which goes back to its origins in Iraq a decade or more ago. This is a reminder that the vast proportion of casualties of terrorism are Muslims killed by co-religionists.The second targeted western tourists in Tunisia. Hotels and holidaymakers have been a frequent target in recent years. Western tourists are both an obvious and vulnerable presence in the Islamic world. An attack on a hotel will attract global attention, mark a group\u2019s influence and badly damage the local tourist industry. Historically such attacks have undermined local support but it seems unlikely Friday\u2019s attackers would have been bothered by this. The prime suspects for the Sousse attack are militants belonging to fragmented local groups, possibly based in neighbouring Libya and loyal to Isis. Third was the attack on a US-owned gas cylinder plant in south-east France. The culprit in this strike appears to have worked for the victim\u2019s company, but the French have nevertheless launched a terror investigation. He also appears to fit a profile that has become well established in recent years: a French male aged between 22 and 35 who was either born overseas before coming to France or whose parents migrated from Algeria or Morocco. Some of these attackers have had links to overseas groups; while others have been closer to the classic idea of \u201clone wolves\u201d. But all have been steeped in a broader environment of violent activism, extreme conservatism, homophobia and anti-semitism for many years before they acted. They are \u201clone actors\u201d only in terms of the actual organisation and execution of a terrorist attack; their world view is shared by a significant number of people. An increasing number have either been inspired by, or actually fought for, Islamic State. When propagandists of the group tell individuals their duty is to take up arms in European countries \u2013 especially against the \u201cfilthy French\u201d \u2013 they know already how receptive some will be to their call to arms.The three strikes came almost exactly on the first anniversary of Islamic State\u2019s declaration of its caliphate, and it is possible they were coordinated. If so, it would indicate a new level of strategic thinking and capability for Isis. If not, they nevertheless send a potent message: terrorists hope to to give the impression that they can strike at will, everywhere, anywhere.This is clearly not the case: the attack in Europe involved one man; the one in Tunis, a gunman or two. We are still far from the mass casualty attacks of 10 or 12 years ago in Europe. We are also far from the doomsday scenario of highly trained Isis militants making their way to the UK, US or wherever to execute major operations.But the sense of ubiquitous menace inevitably induced by Friday\u2019s killings will be difficult to dispel.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "World news"], "title": "Terror attacks in Kuwait, France and Tunisia echo Isis methods"},{"date": "2015-06-27T11:48:16Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, has held a second emergency defence council meeting after the decapitation of a company boss in the south-east of France and the attacks in Tunisia and Kuwait.Hollande returned immediately to Paris from an official visit in Brussels on Friday and the prime minister, Manuel Valls, cut short a visit to South America for the crisis summit that followed the raising of the country\u2019s security alert level.Valls warned that France faced more attacks after the gruesome killing on Friday which came less than six months after the attacks on Charlie Hebdo magazine and a kosher supermarket in Paris that left 17 people, including two police officers, dead.\u201cIt\u2019s difficult for a society to live for years under the threat of attack,\u201d he told French journalists. \u201cThe question is not if there will be another attack \u2026 but when.\u201dPolice were still questioning suspected attacker Yassin Salhi and three members of his family, including his wife, who were taken into custody on Friday.In Tunisia, the death toll from the attack on tourists at a beach and luxury hotel was said to have reached 39 people, including eight Britons.Locals in the small village of Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, near where the Frenchman was decapitated, reportedly by one of his employees, held a minute\u2019s silence as more details of the gruesome French assassination emerged.Salhi, a 35-year-old father of three, is suspected to have driven to the Air Products depot at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, a short drive from Lyon, in a Peugeot Boxer around 9.28am local time on Friday.The suspect then allegedly rang at the gate of the depot belonging to the US-based company, which stocked liquid gas for industrial use, and showed a badge that gave him the authority to enter into the first security zone.Salhi had become known to police in 2006 after attending meetings held by a radical preacher in the Doubs area of western France where he was born, and was placed on a security watchlist classed as \u201cFiche S\u201d (for \u201cstate security\u201d). He was rated at 13 on a scale of 16, but his name appears to have been dropped when the list was renewed two years later. He had no criminal record.CCTV cameras show the driver suddenly accelerating into a second gate around a more protected area and ramming into gas tanks. Injured in the crash, he managed to get out of his car and ran into a covered hanger filled with bottles of liquid air, gas and acetone.He then opened the valves on the bottles before trying to set them alight, when firefighters arrived.After an explosion and the start of a fire, an emergency firefighter confronted the suspect at around 10am and attempted to stop him by grappling him to the ground and holding him until local gendarmes could arrive.As they pulled up at the depot, gendarmes were horrified to find a decapitated head attached by a chain to a gate inside the depot, covered with two large black-and-white banners covered in Arab writing that appeared to correspond to the Shahada (the Muslim profession of faith).Near the Peugeot Boxer, which had been seriously damaged by the gas explosion, lay the headless body. A knife was found nearby. Related: France attack: terror inquiry launched and suspect arrested \u2013 as it happened The victim was named as Herv\u00e9 Cornara, aged 54, the commercial director of ATC Transport, a delivery company where Salhi worked as a driver since March. Police said it appeared the victim had been decapitated before Salhi drove into the depot.While beheading is a trademark of Islamic State (Isis), investigators have not confirmed whether the suspect had direct links or strong sympathies with the Islamist terror group.The Air Products site was on the EU Seveso list, meaning it contained potentially risky industrial material, but that the hazard was limited.Salhi was born on 25 March, 1980 to a Moroccan-born mother and an Algerian-born father, who was a factory worker. According to Le Parisien, the family showed no signs of religious fervour until after the father died of a heart attack and the mother started wearing a headscarf and her sons allegedly grew beards. Shortly afterwards, the mother returned to Morocco.The local newspaper, L\u2019Est R\u00e9publicain, reported that at the beginning of the 2000s, Salhi became close to a radical Islamic preacher at Pontarlier, in Doubs, who was nicknamed \u201cGrand Ali\u201d. Ali, an Islamic convert, was suspected of involvement in an attack in Indonesia. In 2004, Salhi came to the attention of the intelligence services, and was placed on the Fiche S for his alleged radicalisation and \u201clinks to a Salafist movement\u201d. This Fiche S was dropped in 2008.Salhi and his wife and three children moved briefly to Besan\u00e7on, the capital of Doubs, where he was said to continue to meet with Salafis, then to Saint Priest, near Lyon. His colleagues and neighbours said he never spoke about religion. Because of his continued connections with Salafis, his name was picked up again by the French intelligence services in 2013 and 2014. The Direction G\u00e9n\u00e9rale de la S\u00e9curit\u00e9 (DGSE), France\u2019s intelligence service, apparently wanted to put his telephone under surveillance, but could not find any line registered to him or any member of his family.There is no evidence or suggestion as yet his wife or sister knew anything about the attack at Air Products.The US-based head of the company, Seifi Ghasemi, expressed \u201call his sympathy for the victim of the attack\u201d on Saturday. \u201cI am horrified and terribly saddened by this attack on one of our plants in France. I think I speak for all staff at Air Products across the world in expressing our profound sympathy for the family of the victim of this undescribable act,\u201d Ghasemi said.", "tags": ["France", "Islamic State", "World news", "Europe", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "France attack: Fran\u00e7ois Hollande holds second crisis summit"},{"date": "2015-06-26T19:58:03Z", "country": "france", "content": "Witnesses have described the horror and chaos of the gun attack on sunbathing holidaymakers in Tunisia that left at least 39 people dead and 36 injured.At least five British tourists and an Irishwoman died in the attack. Philip Hammond, the British foreign secretary, said the British death toll was likely to rise.The assault in Tunisia took place within hours of two other suspected Islamist attacks in France and Kuwait. One man was detained near Lyon, south-eastern France, after the severed head of his former employer was hung from the gates of a gas factory. French officials said the man had been known to intelligence services.In Kuwait City, a suicide bomber attacked a Shia mosque, killing 27 worshippers. Responsibility for the bombing was later claimed by the Islamic State group. There is no evidence that the three attacks were coordinated or connected.The shootings in Tunisia took place at about midday in the resort of Sousse, 93 miles (150km) south of Tunis on the country\u2019s east coast. Tourists fled from the beach and barricaded themselves in their hotel rooms after a gunman opened fire on the crowded beach before moving into the pool area of the five-star Imperial Marhaba hotel while firing at tourists, witnesses said.One suspected gunman was shot dead at the scene, and reports suggested another suspect was apprehended.Of the attack in Sousse, Mohamed Ali Aroui, a spokesman for the Tunisian interior ministry, said: \u201cThe perpetrator of the operation was killed, but \u2026 there could have been more of them. Whether there were other elements with him, we can\u2019t confirm or deny.\u201dAn official from the country\u2019s health ministry said Britons, Germans, Belgians and Tunisians were among the dead. \u201cThere are still some people we have not identified yet, but we are working on it,\u201d the official said. A foreign ministry spokesman said that at least 11 Britons, three Belgians and a German were among the wounded.The Riu Imperial Marhaba Hotel, where the shootings took place, said the majority of the 565 guests at the hotel were from the UK and central European countries.One couple from Kent told the Guardian they had been relaxing on their sunbeds when they heard what they believed at first to be fireworks, and saw a man running along the sand with what looked like a machine gun.\u201cHe was shouting something, I don\u2019t know what he was shouting,\u201d said Glenn Whitehead, a scaffolder from Swanley, Kent. He shouted at his wife Anita to run, as bullets flew around them. A person lying next to them fell dead, he said. The couple heard bullets close to their head, and Mrs Whitehead tripped in the sand as others ran screaming beside them. Staff from the hotel\u2019s spa beckoned them inside, where about 20 other tourists and staff were waiting. The couple said they waited for perhaps 20 minutes before they were led outside by staff, to find bodies lying by the hotel pool and in the foyer, amid pools of blood.\u201cI looked around the beach and all I could see were dead people covered in towels,\u201d said Mr Whitehead. There was also a body on the sunbed next to the ones they had been using. \u201cWhere we were lying were a German mother and daughter. When I got back one of them was covered over, dead.\u201d\u201cThere was a lot of people who couldn\u2019t get off their sunbeds,\u201d his wife said. \u201cThey were elderly.\u201dWitnesses told the Guardian that a British man had been killed while sunbathing on the beach as his wife packed their bags in their room ahead of their planned departure on Friday. Another British woman described how her fianc\u00e9 was shot three times as he lay next to her on a sunbed, using his own body to shield her from the bullets. Sarah Wilson, from Pontypridd in south Wales, said her partner Matthew James was shot as the gunman opened fire, throwing himself in front of her before urging her to run for her life. He survived the assault but suffered wounds to his shoulder, chest and hip.\u201cWe were just on the sunbeds, messing around and having a nice time when we heard these sounds. The shooting had started and there was a man with a gun opening fire all around. It is hard to remember just exactly what was going on,\u201d she said. \u201cI only saw the one man in dark clothing but people were being shot.\u201cMatthew put himself in front of me then he was hit, he moved and the man shot him again. Again he tried to move and he was shot again. He was shouting and blood was pouring out all over. I was screaming and it was chaos as more shots were coming out.\u201cWe were down on the floor next to the sunbeds to shelter but the shots just kept on coming. He just told me to go, to look after our kids and that he loved me.\u201dShe fled to the hotel and hid in a cupboard until it was safe to emerge, hunting for two hours on the beach until she learned James had been taken to hospital, where he had life-saving surgery. \u201cI\u2019ve been to the hospital intensive care and I\u2019m just staying here on a chair now. His pelvis was shattered by the bullet and he also had a heart attack. But he is alive. I\u2019m just praying we can get out of here as soon as we can.\u201cThere are bodies everywhere, some covered in blankets and some not. You can\u2019t imagine how bad it is.\u201dRay Butler, a member of the Irish D\u00e1il, said he had spoken by telephone to the husband of a man from County Meath whose wife was shot dead on the beach while he was in the hotel inside. \u201cHe is absolutely distraught,\u201d Butler said. Charles Flanagan, the Irish minister of foreign affairs, confirmed that an Irish citizen had been killed.David Cameron broke off from the European council meeting in Brussels to offer his \u201csympathy and condolences and solidarity\u201d to Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the French president, and to Tunisia. \u201cThis is a threat that faces all of us \u2026 these events can happen anywhere,\u201d he said. Cameron pledged that Britain would do all it could to help, and insisted that the perpetrators were acting not in the name of Islam but \u201cin the name of a twisted and perverted ideology that we must combat with everything we have\u201d.Speaking after he chaired a meeting of the UK government\u2019s Cobra crisis committee in London, Philip Hammond, the foreign secretary, said: \u201cThe situation on the ground is still somewhat confused and we can\u2019t be sure exactly how many [victims there are] but because of the nature of the composition of the tourist population in this part of Tunisia we have to assume that a high proportion of those killed and injured will have been British.\u201cWe have had reports from families of those involved in the incident that allow us to confirm that at least five Britons have been killed in this incident, but I should warn that we must expect that there will be more reports of fatalities as we establish the detail on the ground.\u201d The British Foreign Office said it was urgently working with travel firms in Tunisia \u201cto gather and confirm information on those affected by this attack\u201d, and had despatched British embassy staff to the site of the atrocity.Speaking from the scene several hours after the attack, Tunisia\u2019s president, B\u00e9ji Ca\u00efd Essebsi, called for a global strategy to tackle terrorism and insisted that his country could not be left to face jihadis alone.The attack \u2013 the worst in Tunisia\u2019s modern history \u2013 is a devastating blow to a country whose economy relies heavily on western tourism, and comes only three months after another two gunmen murdered 21 people, including one Briton, in an assault on the Bardo National Museum, one of the country\u2019s leading tourist attractions. There were no immediate claims of responsibility.Sousse was also the scene of a failed suicide bombing attempt in October 2013, when a man was spotted approaching a hotel in a suicide vest and chased on to the empty beach, where he blew himself up.The country\u2019s tourist economy had taken a major blow in the aftermath of the 2011 \u201cJasmine\u201d revolution but with new elections in late 2014, was returning to stability. Tourist receipts in 2015 are already down by 15% on 2014 following the Bardo attack. By late afternoon, the corpses, most of them in black body bags, had been gathered by a bar and pavilion. The Guardian was shown several bodies of elderly tourists in shorts and bathing suits still lying where they had been killed. Others had been evacuated by the emergency services, using sunbeds as stretchers.Dazed tourists, clearly in shock, ordered beers from the terrace bar still dressed in their swimsuits. One man from had ordered lobster and was drinking a beer while cleaners mopped up blood around his feet. He said he had seen someone killed, but did not want to be named. Related: Tunisia: murder of holiday-makers in Sousse could kill tourism and hope Gary Pine, a product manager from Bristol who was staying at the El Mouradi Palm Marina hotel, said he heard an estimated 20 to 30 shots before tourists ran to their hotels for cover. \u201cOver to our left, about 100 yards [90 metres] or so away, we saw what we thought was firecrackers going off,\u201d he told Sky News. \u201cBut you could see quite quickly the panic that was starting to ensue from the next resort along from us.\u201cOnly when you could start hearing bullets whizzing around your ear do you realise it was something a lot more serious than firecrackers.\u201cMy son was in the sea at the time and of course my wife and myself were shouting for him to get out of the sea quick and as we ran up the beach, he said: \u2018I just saw someone get shot.\u2019 As we exited the beach there was some kind of explosion from the complex next door. So we knew that a situation was developing, if not had ended.\u201dElizabeth O\u2019Brien, an Irish woman who was holidaying with her two sons, said she had heard what she initially thought was gunfire, before realising it was actually gunfire. \u201cSo I just ran to the sea to my children and grabbed our things and as I was running towards the hotel, the waiters and the security on the beach started saying \u2018run, run, run!\u2019 and we just ran to our room.\u201d", "tags": ["Middle East and North Africa", "Tunisia", "Kuwait", "France", "Islamic State", "Africa", "Europe", "World news", "David Cameron", "Philip Hammond", "Politics", "Wales", "UK news", "Ireland"], "title": "Dozens killed as tourists recount horror of Tunisian beach massacre"},{"date": "2015-06-16T14:30:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "France must do more to tackle alcohol abuse and smoking, the country\u2019s health minister has said.Marisol Touraine said France was renowned for its healthcare but needed to do more in terms of preventing diseases. She said there was a very French form of denial over the hazards of alcohol, which is believed to cause an estimated 50,000 premature deaths a year in France.Touraine also said the number of French women who smoke \u2013 and particularly those who continue to do so in the last three months of pregnancy \u2013 as well as the number of young and poor who light up was worrying.Touraine said figures from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development showed the French consume an average 12 litres of pure alcohol a year, equivalent to about 120 bottles of wine, compared with a European average of 9.1 litres. \u201cI\u2019m French, I like to drink a glass of wine \u2026 but the wine and alcohol lobby in France is powerful and has got into people\u2019s heads that wine is good for the health, which remains to be proven,\u201d she told journalists from the Anglo-American Press Association in Paris. \u201cWe drink less than 30 years ago, but still above the European average.\u201dThe French government is battling attempts to water down a 1991 law that imposed restrictions on alcohol advertising. Touraine said the new challenge was \u201cdisguised advertising\u201d, citing a 2013 ruling that fined Paris Match for an article on the Hollywood actor Scarlett Johansson\u2019s deal with a celebrated French champagne house.I'm French, I like to drink a glass of wine \u2026 but the wine and alcohol lobby in France is powerful\u201cSo we see Mademoiselle Scarlett Johansson stretched out on a red sofa looking every bit the star she is, with a bottle in front of her on which we can see the brand label. The judges decided this was disguised advertising and should not be in a magazine, and it\u2019s claimed this threatens France\u2019s champagne industry,\u201c Touraine said. \u201cIt\u2019s just crazy. I\u2019m not trying to harden the law, I\u2019m saying don\u2019t touch it.\u201d Touraine, 56, whose broad portfolio in Fran\u00e7ois Hollande\u2019s Socialist government covers social affairs, health and women\u2019s rights, said: \u201cThere\u2019s a form of denial over this. In all my political career, I\u2019ve never known such passion over a subject. There will be a debate about wine in parliament at 4am and you think all the MPs will be at home asleep, but no, they turn up. It\u2019s a very French debate.\u201dFrance is to force tobacco companies to use plain packaging from 2016 in attempt to reduce the number of smokers. After successful campaigns to discourage smoking in the 1990s, the proportion of the adult population using tobacco rose to 30% between 2000 and 2013, Touraine said. She cited the success of Britain in reducing smoking levels to around 20% of over-15s.There will be a debate about wine in parliament at 4am and you think all the MPs will be asleep, but no\u200b\u200b, they turn up\u201cThere are three categories we have to tackle: women, because there is an increase in the number of female smokers, and France has the highest number who smoke in the last trimester of pregnancy; the young and the poor. I don\u2019t like introducing bans, but sometimes they are necessary,\u201d she said. Touraine is trying to push through health reforms but there have been protests by GPs, hospital doctors and other health workers. The minister said France\u2019s much-admired but costly health and social security system \u2013 the latter is deeply in the red \u2013 needed reorganising not just to make savings but to respond to changing public needs and demands.\u201cThere is a great malaise among GPs but that\u2019s not my fault. I\u2019m just the one who is uncovering it, the one saying you have to change the way you work,\u201d Touraine said. \u201cI think much of the opposition is based on the conservatism and opposition to change that is sometimes characteristic in France.\u201dShe said she was shocked by the virulence and \u201cextreme violence\u201d of the personal attacks, and claimed that \u201cinsidious sexism\u201d lay behind it. \u201cWe have to fight against it permanently but I have never played the [female] victim card and I will not do so. I do think some people believe I will give in more easily because I\u2019m a woman, and the fact I am determined and strong annoys them even more. But I am not afraid. \u201cI stand up to my responsibilities and I believe that makes me respected in my dealings with the medical unions and even in political circles. People may like me or they may not, but at least I am respected.\u201d", "tags": ["France", "World news", "Europe", "Smoking", "Alcohol"], "title": "France in denial over alcohol abuse, says health minister"},{"date": "2015-06-16T10:52:33Z", "country": "france", "content": "The UK, France and Netherlands are set to miss a key EU renewable energy target and should review their policies to get back on track, the European commission has said.A progress report for all 28 member states, published on Tuesday, said that those three countries plus Malta and Luxembourg should \u201cassess whether their policies and tools are sufficient and effective\u201d to meet the target. Adopted in 2009, the binding target requires the EU to source 20% of energy from renewables such as wind, solar and biomass by 2020.An EU source said: \u201cThere are still five years to go [to meet the target], there is still time. We are not saying they [those countries lagging now] are going to fail. We are saying look into your policies and adjust them.\u201dHowever, most countries are on track to hit their contribution to the renewable energy target, with Sweden, Denmark and Estonia set to considerably exceed it, the report suggested.The UK\u2019s share of energy from renewable sources \u2013 which includes heating as well as electricity \u2013 was 5.1% for 2013. Britain must source 15% of energy from renewables by 2020.A spokeswoman for the Department of Energy and Climate Change said: \u201cThe UK is making good progress towards the EU 2020 target on renewables. The UK has come a long way already; in 2005 1.4% of energy was from renewable sources, for 2013 5.1% of energy was from renewable sources.\u201cWe are on track to meet the next interim target of 5.4% for 2013/14 and will work across sectors to deliver clean, secure and affordable energy for the UK.\u201dA spokesman for the European Wind Energy Association said: \u201cIt\u2019s encouraging to see that the EU as a whole is on track to meet the 2020 target. Member states have shown ambition to meet this objective but it\u2019s clear that some countries need to pick up the pace, notably the UK, Netherlands and France.\u201dThe commission\u2019s report found that the EU as a whole sourced 15.3% of its energy from renewables in 2013, leading it to say that the bloc is on track to hit its 20% by 2020 target.Miguel Arias Ca\u00f1ete, the EU climate commissioner, said: \u201cThe report shows once again that Europe is good at renewables, and that renewables are good for Europe. We have three times more renewable power per capita in Europe than anywhere else in the rest of the world.\u201dThe new Conservative government in the UK has made it clear it intends to put a halt to the development of more windfarms on land, which are widely-seen seen as the cheapest form of renewable energy. As well as making it easier for local communities to block onshore windfarms, energy secretary Amber Rudd is reportedly looking to end subsidies for them a year earlier than expected too.A report published on Monday by Keep on Track, a partnership of renewable energy trade bodies from 11 European countries, concluded that the UK was underachieving on renewable energy, due in part to \u201ca number of major regulatory and administrative barriers\u201d.", "tags": ["Renewable energy", "Environment", "European Union", "Energy", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Green politics", "Wind power", "Solar power"], "title": "UK and France 'may miss EU renewable energy target'"},{"date": "2015-09-03T10:45:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "With almost 1,000km of cycle routes and paths, Alsace is a cyclists\u2019 paradise. There are routes for all abilities and bikes, all signposted with great clarity, amid sun-kissed rolling hills and vineyards \u2013 though go prepared for frequent showers. Start at Strasbourg, and head down the flat valleys to the wonderful medieval streets of Colmar, for an easy, scenic start. Bike hire from \u20ac20 at day at Strasbourg\u2019s many youth hostels.Routes and accommodation at alsaceavelo.frfuninfinlandThe Grands Crus wine trail is a scenic 17km loop linking six Alsace winemaking villages. Tackle it on foot or mountain bike for unbeatable views across the vines to the rooftops below, learning a little about the winemaking process from the info boards along the route. Highlights include the half-timbered honeypot of Riquewihr, deservedly one of Les Plus Beaux Villages de France and many opportunities for a d\u00e9gustation in each village. Hunawihr, another of the plus beaux villages is peaceful, with a great lunch spot at Chez Suzel: we had abundant salads on the flower-filled terrace.alsace-wine-route.com, suzel-hunawihr.commarthah The Winstub of H\u00f4tel Le Chambard in Kaysersberg has traditional wooden furniture and red-checked tablecloths, but shares a kitchen with the Michelin-starred 64o restaurant. We also loved the restaurant at Hotel Diette in Fouchy, near Vill\u00e9. It\u2019s not the most picturesque place but the local dishes are a delight. Be sure to start with a unique aperitif called asp\u00e9rule, made of wild flowers and white wine: it tastes like you are drinking a meadow!lechambard.fr, hotel-diette.frcrowsnestMulhouse is a lovely small town an hour and a quarter south of Strasbourg by train. An extensive tram system allowed us to visit outlying attractions including the car and train museums. Staff in shops and restaurants were welcoming and friendly and menu prices were reasonable. We stayed at the Mercure Centre (doubles from \u20ac98 room-only, mercure.com), opposite the station. Trips to Basel and Strasbourg and smaller towns in the region, are easily accomplished by train, which makes Mulhouse an excellent base. tourisme-mulhouse.comMrsSueLa Choucrouterie restaurant-theatre is an authentic slice of Alsace life in a Strasbourg backstreet. Wise-cracking moustachioued waiters weave in and out of the tables serving steaming plates of local cuisine based on cheese, chicken, sausages and potatoes for \u20ac12 including a little jug of wine. The whole place is like an improvised theatre \u2013 learn a few words of Alsace dialect and you\u2019ll get extra food or a discount. They also put on shows, sometimes in dialect, in the theatre at the back.restaurantdelachouc.comTheCapeCruiserThis hotel offers great value and is in a quiet neighbourhood close to a botanical garden. It is also a great base for exploring other areas by foot and train \u2013 the station is a short walk from the hotel. There\u2019s also a beautiful river nearby, for a relaxing stroll, and there\u2019s an affordable Alsatian restaurant round the corner. Doubles from \u20ac82 room-only, hotel-princes.comcool_camperFor a very different day out, head to Schirmeck, some 50km from Strasbourg (accessible by car or by train and shuttle bus), for some sobering 20th-century history. During the second world war, Alsace was annexed by Germany, and the Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp was opened in 1941. Shrouded by forests, today the camp and museum are well-preserved and information is presented in a thoughtful manner. Nearby is the Alsace-Moselle memorial museum which traces the history of the region from 1870 to the present day, focusing on the annexations that have shaped it. You need at least two hours to visit this impressive museum, whose sights and sounds will fascinate and move you.struthof.fr, memorial-alsace-moselle.comMichelle Anne HarrisonReally good accommodation with friendly and helpful staff plus a most unexpectedly good restaurant make Hotel de la Poste, up in the Vosges mountains, a must if you\u2019re holidaying, or hiking in that part of Alsace. Hotel de la Poste was a revelation on our hike across the ridges of the Vosges from the railway station at Saint-Amarin via Le Grand Ballon to Riquewihr.Doubles from \u20ac84 B&B, +33 3 89 47 51 10, hotel-la-poste.comsimsh47As a year-abroad student, I was given a tour of the Sundgau (an area in southern Alsace close to the borders of Franche-Comt\u00e9, Switzerland and Germany) in exchange for some English lessons. Visit a boulangerie in the morning to pick up some items for a picnic (Alsatian specialities include bretzels, kugelhopf, tarte au fromage blanc...) and head into the Sundgau, to enjoy views of the Jura mountains and thick forests. The medieval village of Ferrette is particularly beautiful, and the ch\u00e2teau offers stunning views to enjoy while tucking into your picnic.sundgau-sudalsace.frMichelle Anne Harrison On a little square, more reminiscent of a village than a nondescript neighbourhood of Strasbourg (La Meinau) sits this bakery that may have the freshest, tastiest pastries to ever pass these lips (and there have been many), whether it be a pain au chocolat, an eclair or a chausson aux pommes (apple turnover but it tastes better in French). It makes a perfect start to the day and you can burn off the calories walking the hills of Alsace or the alleyways of medieval Strasbourg.19 place Jean Mac\u00e9catchytitled", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "French food and drink", "Cycling holidays", "Walking holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Travel"], "title": "The best of Alsace, France: readers\u2019 tips"},{"date": "2015-09-03T10:45:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "With almost 1,000km of cycle routes and paths, Alsace is a cyclists\u2019 paradise. There are routes for all abilities and bikes, all signposted with great clarity, amid sun-kissed rolling hills and vineyards \u2013 though go prepared for frequent showers. Start at Strasbourg, and head down the flat valleys to the wonderful medieval streets of Colmar, for an easy, scenic start. Bike hire from \u20ac20 at day at Strasbourg\u2019s many youth hostels.Routes and accommodation at alsaceavelo.frfuninfinlandThe Grands Crus wine trail is a scenic 17km loop linking six Alsace winemaking villages. Tackle it on foot or mountain bike for unbeatable views across the vines to the rooftops below, learning a little about the winemaking process from the info boards along the route. Highlights include the half-timbered honeypot of Riquewihr, deservedly one of Les Plus Beaux Villages de France and many opportunities for a d\u00e9gustation in each village. Hunawihr, another of the plus beaux villages is peaceful, with a great lunch spot at Chez Suzel: we had abundant salads on the flower-filled terrace.alsace-wine-route.com, suzel-hunawihr.commarthah The Winstub of H\u00f4tel Le Chambard in Kaysersberg has traditional wooden furniture and red-checked tablecloths, but shares a kitchen with the Michelin-starred 64o restaurant. We also loved the restaurant at Hotel Diette in Fouchy, near Vill\u00e9. It\u2019s not the most picturesque place but the local dishes are a delight. Be sure to start with a unique aperitif called asp\u00e9rule, made of wild flowers and white wine: it tastes like you are drinking a meadow!lechambard.fr, hotel-diette.frcrowsnestMulhouse is a lovely small town an hour and a quarter south of Strasbourg by train. An extensive tram system allowed us to visit outlying attractions including the car and train museums. Staff in shops and restaurants were welcoming and friendly and menu prices were reasonable. We stayed at the Mercure Centre (doubles from \u20ac98 room-only, mercure.com), opposite the station. Trips to Basel and Strasbourg and smaller towns in the region, are easily accomplished by train, which makes Mulhouse an excellent base. tourisme-mulhouse.comMrsSueLa Choucrouterie restaurant-theatre is an authentic slice of Alsace life in a Strasbourg backstreet. Wise-cracking moustachioued waiters weave in and out of the tables serving steaming plates of local cuisine based on cheese, chicken, sausages and potatoes for \u20ac12 including a little jug of wine. The whole place is like an improvised theatre \u2013 learn a few words of Alsace dialect and you\u2019ll get extra food or a discount. They also put on shows, sometimes in dialect, in the theatre at the back.restaurantdelachouc.comTheCapeCruiserThis hotel offers great value and is in a quiet neighbourhood close to a botanical garden. It is also a great base for exploring other areas by foot and train \u2013 the station is a short walk from the hotel. There\u2019s also a beautiful river nearby, for a relaxing stroll, and there\u2019s an affordable Alsatian restaurant round the corner. Doubles from \u20ac82 room-only, hotel-princes.comcool_camperFor a very different day out, head to Schirmeck, some 50km from Strasbourg (accessible by car or by train and shuttle bus), for some sobering 20th-century history. During the second world war, Alsace was annexed by Germany, and the Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp was opened in 1941. Shrouded by forests, today the camp and museum are well-preserved and information is presented in a thoughtful manner. Nearby is the Alsace-Moselle memorial museum which traces the history of the region from 1870 to the present day, focusing on the annexations that have shaped it. You need at least two hours to visit this impressive museum, whose sights and sounds will fascinate and move you.struthof.fr, memorial-alsace-moselle.comMichelle Anne HarrisonReally good accommodation with friendly and helpful staff plus a most unexpectedly good restaurant make Hotel de la Poste, up in the Vosges mountains, a must if you\u2019re holidaying, or hiking in that part of Alsace. Hotel de la Poste was a revelation on our hike across the ridges of the Vosges from the railway station at Saint-Amarin via Le Grand Ballon to Riquewihr.Doubles from \u20ac84 B&B, +33 3 89 47 51 10, hotel-la-poste.comsimsh47As a year-abroad student, I was given a tour of the Sundgau (an area in southern Alsace close to the borders of Franche-Comt\u00e9, Switzerland and Germany) in exchange for some English lessons. Visit a boulangerie in the morning to pick up some items for a picnic (Alsatian specialities include bretzels, kugelhopf, tarte au fromage blanc...) and head into the Sundgau, to enjoy views of the Jura mountains and thick forests. The medieval village of Ferrette is particularly beautiful, and the ch\u00e2teau offers stunning views to enjoy while tucking into your picnic.sundgau-sudalsace.frMichelle Anne Harrison On a little square, more reminiscent of a village than a nondescript neighbourhood of Strasbourg (La Meinau) sits this bakery that may have the freshest, tastiest pastries to ever pass these lips (and there have been many), whether it be a pain au chocolat, an eclair or a chausson aux pommes (apple turnover but it tastes better in French). It makes a perfect start to the day and you can burn off the calories walking the hills of Alsace or the alleyways of medieval Strasbourg.19 place Jean Mac\u00e9catchytitled", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "French food and drink", "Cycling holidays", "Walking holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Travel"], "title": "The best of Alsace, France: readers\u2019 tips"},{"date": "2015-09-05T06:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Alsace runs west to east from the pine-clad Vosges mountains through some of the most beautiful vineyards in France, to the mighty Rhine river and the border with Germany. Changing hands several times over the centuries between France and Germany has only strengthened the independent character of this fiercely traditional region, where a unique dialect is still the most popular spoken language.I don\u2019t think I have ever travelled through any other part of France where visitors are given such a genuinely warm welcome, both in the vineyards (Alsace is one of the world pioneers of wine tourism) and the mountains, where an outdoor holiday can take in biking, boating, trekking and fishing. The food is out of this world and distinct from other French regions. A foaming beer is just as popular as a glass of wine, and specialities include not just foie gras and escargots but juicy ham hock with steaming choucroute, pike-perch poached in riesling and spicy gingerbread.What to see and doThe region\u2019s capital is Strasbourg, particularly famous for being the seat of several European institutions and its magnificent red sandstone Gothic cathedral, the world\u2019s tallest building between 1647 and 1874, now celebrating its millennium (its first stone was laid in 1015). The interlocking waterways and brightly painted half-timbered houses of La Petite France, the historic leather-tanning district, is a picturesque must-see, but be prepared for crowds of visitors. More offbeat, and quieter, is the Mus\u00e9e Alsacien, an enchanting maze of rooms illustrating Alsace\u2019s unique culture, and the Cave Historique des Hospices de Strasbourg, a 14th-century wine cellar beneath the modern city hospital, which boasts a barrel of the world\u2019s oldest wine, miraculously preserved since 1472. Mulhouse, 100km south of Strasbourg (off the above map), is the region\u2019s second city, best known for its vast transport museums Cit\u00e9 de l\u2019Automobile (hosting the world\u2019s biggest collection of Bugattis among hundreds of vintage and racing cars) and Cit\u00e9 du Train, and is primarily an industrial town. Between the two cities is Colmar, whose ancient centre is criscrossed by romantic lanes and canals. The town is an architectural goldmine of gothic, renaiissance and baroque mansions and churches. Foodies should not miss the ornate covered market.Where to eatMost of Strasbourg\u2019s traditional winstube (winebars) have been transformed into restaurants, the perfect place to sample local specialities. Cross the river Ill, just outside the historic centre, to eat at Au Pont du Corbeau (mains from \u20ac17, 21 Quai Saint-Nicolas, +33 3 8835 6068), whose menu ranges from escargots and homemade goose foie gras to grumbeerekiechle \u2013 tasty potato pancakes with crunchy smoked bacon. In La Petite France, La Maison des Tanneurs (mains from \u20ac22, 42 rue du Bain aux Plantes, +33 3 8832 7970, maison-des-tanneurs.com) serves an unforgettable choucroute, steaming fermented cabbage topped with a vast pig\u2019s knuckle, salted pork and assorted sausages, though vegetarians will be relieved to discover Pur etc (mains from \u20ac7, 122 Grand Rue, +33 9 8378 3879, pur-etc.fr), whose chefs work directly with local farmers. Colmar has plenty of atmospheric winstube, like the waterside Brenner (mains from \u20ac15, 1 rue Turenne, +33 3 8941 4233, wistub-brenner.fr), but the best address to mix with the locals is the opulent Brasserie Le Th\u00e9\u00e2tre (mains from \u20ac18, 1 rue des Bains, +33 3 8929 2929, restaurantletheatre.net).Where to drinkWith Strasbourg\u2019s big student population there are many cheap and cheerful bars. Au Brasseur (22 rue des Veaux, aubrasseur.fr) is a buzzing microbrewery with artisan beers, such as chocolate malt, while Troquet des Kneckes (112 Grand Rue, on Facebook), \u201cthe catapult bar\u201d, has just opened, with flea market sofas and armchairs, free table football and a big selection of Alsace wines. For live music and clubbing, finish the night at Fat Black Pussycat (3 rue Klein, on Facebook). Colmar may be quieter but there is a great atmosphere in the bustling Bistrot des Halles (13 rue des Ecoles), right in the middle of the food market, and for an after-dinner drink, pop into the cosy bar of Schwendi Bier und Winstub (23 Grand Rue).Where to stayThe funkiest place to stay in Strasbourg is Hotel Graffalgar (doubles from \u20ac90, breakfast \u20ac8, graffalgar-hotel-strasbourg.fr), where graffiti artists have decorated each room, ranging from an Escher-like hommage to Stanley Kubrik in room 203 to the psychedelic bordello of 303. Hotel Suisse (doubles from \u20ac87 B&B, hotel-suisse.com) is perfectly placed opposite the cathedral and Room 33 has a view of the towering pink spire. Colmar\u2019s Hotel Le Colombier (doubles from \u20ac126, breakfast \u20ac14, hotel-le-colombier.fr) is a chic boutique property, while the picturesque half-timbered Hotel Saint Martin (doubles from \u20ac95 B&B, hotel-saint-martin.com) offers much more traditional, homely Alsace decor.What to see and doFounded in 1953, this is the oldest wine route in France, stretching over 150 miles (in the shadow of the Vosges, roughly from the west of Mulhouse to the north of Strasbourg) with more than 1,000 vignerons welcoming visitors to their cellars for a free wine tasting. In September and October the tourism offices of villages along the wine route organise half-day excursions for tourists to join in the grape harvest.The Alsace wine villages have a fairytale quality with their brightly painted cottages, medieval ramparts and distinctive stork nests delicately balanced on church spires. The most beautiful \u2013 Riquewihr, Eguisheim, Kaysersberg and Bergheim \u2013 are very popular with visitors over the summer, so autumn\u2019s a good time to visit, but there are plenty of quieter hamlets such as Saint-Hippolyte and Katzenthal waiting to be discovered. For a cultural break from eating and drinking, visit the medieval Haut-Koenigsbourg, an imposing hilltop chateau, or drive up to the mystic Mont Sainte-Odile, a seventh-century abbey which has its own hotel for visitors who want to stay the night (doubles from \u20ac86, breakfast \u20ac9.80, mont-sainte-odile.com). A great stop-off for anyone travelling with kids is the bewitching Gingerbread Museum (paindepices-lips.com), in Gertwiller, where master baker Michel Habsiger has created a museum dedicated to Hansel and Gretel filled with a cornucopia of retro toys. His boutique is a wonderland of gingerbread and paver varieties.Where to eatThere are plenty of Michelin-starred dining rooms, such as Olivier Nasti\u2019s 64\u00b0 Le Restaurant (9-13 rue du General de Gaulle, +33 3 8947 1017, lechambard.fr), but the bill in these splash-out restaurants is usually going to add up to more than \u20ac100 a head. A much better bet is to join the locals in a winstub. Between Strasbourg and Colmar, check out Molseim\u2019s Caveau de la Metzig (mains from \u20ac12, 1 Place de l\u2019H\u00f4tel de Ville, +33 3 8838 2624, restaurant-la-metzig.fr), housed in a 16th-century butcher\u2019s guildhall, or the lively Les Petites Casseroles (mains from \u20ac15, 128 rue du G\u00e9n\u00e9ral Gouraud, +33 3 8804 7021) in the centre of Obernai. Look out for dishes such as flammekuechen, the Alsace take on pizza, a wafer-thin flatbread smothered with creamy fromage blanc and bacon, and baeckeoffe, a slow-baked casserole of lamb, beef and pork. South of the wine route, the sleepy village of Nierdermorschwihr has several great addresses. Among them is Caveau des Chevaliers de Malte (mains from \u20ac12, 127 rue des Trois Epis, +33 3 8927 0978, caveau-chevaliers.fr), perfect for plump escargots in garlicky butter or veal tripe braised in riesling.Where to taste wineChoice is not the problem when it comes to tasting wine, though be prepared for lengthy sessions, as each vigneron will open up a dozen whites \u2013 sylvaner, riesling, gew\u00fcrztraminer, pinot blanc \u2013 the region\u2019s distinctive red, a light pinot noir, and bubbly cr\u00e9mant d\u2019Alsace. A good place to start understanding these complex vintages is one of the big co-operative cellars, like the Cave de Turckheim (cave-turckheim.com), which has unbeatable prices as well as high quality, or just turn up at the vineyards of two historic winemaking families: Maison Emile Beyer (emile-beyer.fr) and Hugel et Fils (hugel.com). Alsace has an outstanding selection of organic, biodynamic and \u201cnatural\u201d, no-sulphite vignerons. Two to track down are Domaine Weinbach (appointment only, + 33 3 8947 1321, domaineweinbach.com), for an incredible pinot gris, or the Domaine Albert Seltz (appointment only, +33 3 8808 9177, albert-seltz.com), where the eponymous, exuberant owner has raised the humble sylvaner grape into an exquisite grand cru.Where to stayThe Route des Vins is lined by friendly, affordable winemaker B&Bs, the perfect places to let vignerons explain their wines over a relaxed tasting. Dambach-la-Ville is a sleepy village off the beaten track and Andr\u00e9 Ruhlmann (doubles \u20ac62 B&B, ruhlmann-schutz.fr) loves to whisk his guests on a tour of vineyards that have been in his family since 1688. Au Canon (doubles from \u20ac45 B&B, aucanon.com) sits by the ancient ramparts and steep vineyards that enclose the hamlet of Andlau. It used to be the local bistrot, but Madame Nicolas has converted it into a cosy B&B, while her son, a creative young chef, prepares gourmet private dinners for guests who book them in advance. Staying at the Butterlin family\u2019s chambres d\u2019h\u00f4te (doubles from \u20ac65 B&B, gites-kientzheim) is like stepping back in time, with ancient cot-like beds in snug wood-panelled rooms. The owners have plenty of suggestions for cellars to visit along the pretty cobbled streets of Kientzheim, where every inhabitant seems to make wine. For travellers preferring the comfort of a hotel, most villages have several old-fashioned auberges, such as Hotel Hassenforder (doubles from \u20ac70, breakfast \u20ac7.50, roger-hassenforder.com), right in the heart of Kaysersberg.What to see and doThe Vosges mountains run through Alsace from the summit of the 1,400-metre Grand Ballon in the south, then north along the hair-raising bends of the Route des Cr\u00eates, the Petit Ballon and Col de la Schlucht \u2013 regularly featuring in stages of the Tour de France \u2013 up to the border with Germany. Here, the crowds that follow the wine route thin out, and the low mountains, lakes, waterfalls and forests are a paradise for walking and biking, hang-gliding, canyoning and horse riding. Then, when the winter snows arrive, this ranks as the best region in France for cross-country skiing. A favourite waterfall to walk to is just outside Le Hohwald, 40 minutes\u2019 drive south-west of Strasbourg, where a sign for \u201cCascades\u201d leads along a thick forest path where the river Andlau cascades down a steep waterfall.Not all the attractions are outdoor, as at Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines there is a breathaking trip down an ancient silver mine, while the Vall\u00e9e de Vill\u00e9 is lined with artisan distilleries that make fruit brandies. At Distillerie Nusbaumer (jos-nusbaumer.com) the tasting room is usually packed \u2013 be sure that someone acts as designated driver. Where to eat and drinkThis is the land of the ferme-auberge where every pine-clad valley has signs directing travellers to working farms with rustic restaurants. Just outside Le Hohwald, the Deissler family raises cows at the Ferme Auberge Lindenhof (mains from \u20ac12, 11 route du Kreutzweg, +33 3 8808 3198, ferme-auberge-lindenhof.fr) and the roadside diner offers delicious dishes such as succulent roast veal with a creamy wild mushroom sauce and Alsatian spaetzle egg pasta.In the region where Munster cheese is produced, the Ferme Auberge Kahlenwasen (mains from \u20ac7, Luttenbach-pr\u00e8s-Munster, +33 3 8977 3249, on Facebook) sits on a 1,000-metre-high plateau across from the Petit Ballon, and Madame Lochert prepares rustic recipes including a wonderful dessert \u2013 fresh, milky Munster floating in home-brewed kirsch. At the village of Soultzeren, a narrow track through thick forest comes out at the breathtaking Ferme Auberge du Lac de Forlet (mains from \u20ac8, Lac des Truites, Soultzeren, +33 3 8977 4922). It overlooks a stark glacial landscape and what locals call \u201ctrout lake\u201d but, rather than fish, it does simple omelettes and cured ham because no one fishes in the lake anymore.Where to stayAuberge du Mehrb\u00e4chel (doubles from \u20ac65, breakfast \u20ac9.50, auberge-mehrbachel.com) is perfect for exploring the nature trails of the Grand Ballon. The chalet-style rooms have cosy rustic decor and the chef\u2019s speciality is locally caught trout.For a more personal stay, Les Arts Verts (doubles \u20ac80 B&B, chambre-les-arts-verts.com) is an arty new B&B by lake Kruth-Wildenstein, where guests can visit the printmaking studio of owner Didier and have access to a sauna. Driving along to the silver mines of Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines, it is impossible to miss the bright yellow facade of Auberge de la Canardi\u00e8re (doubles from \u20ac43, breakfast \u20ac6, auberge-de-la-canardiere.fr). The very reasonably priced rooms are basic, and the chef tempts guests with his homemade terrines and smoked wildboar ham.For total pampering, splash out at the luxurious Hostellerie La Cheneaudi\u00e8re (doubles from \u20ac185 B&B, cheneaudiere.com). A stay includes use of the spa, with a sauna, hammam, water-jet massage and Jacuzzi.\u2022 John Brunton was a guest of Hostellerie La Cheneaudi\u00e8re. Car hire was provided by carrentals.co.uk. More information is available at tourisme-alsace.com and route-des-vins-alsace.com. EasyJet and Ryanair fly direct to Strasbourg from Stansted and Gatwick, with returns from \u00a310. Returns on Eurostar (change at Paris, eurostar.com) from \u00a398.", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Weekend breaks", "Hotels", "Food and drink", "Wine holidays", "Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Holiday guide to Alsace, France, including Strasbourg"},{"date": "2015-09-03T10:45:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "With almost 1,000km of cycle routes and paths, Alsace is a cyclists\u2019 paradise. There are routes for all abilities and bikes, all signposted with great clarity, amid sun-kissed rolling hills and vineyards \u2013 though go prepared for frequent showers. Start at Strasbourg, and head down the flat valleys to the wonderful medieval streets of Colmar, for an easy, scenic start. Bike hire from \u20ac20 at day at Strasbourg\u2019s many youth hostels.Routes and accommodation at alsaceavelo.frfuninfinlandThe Grands Crus wine trail is a scenic 17km loop linking six Alsace winemaking villages. Tackle it on foot or mountain bike for unbeatable views across the vines to the rooftops below, learning a little about the winemaking process from the info boards along the route. Highlights include the half-timbered honeypot of Riquewihr, deservedly one of Les Plus Beaux Villages de France and many opportunities for a d\u00e9gustation in each village. Hunawihr, another of the plus beaux villages is peaceful, with a great lunch spot at Chez Suzel: we had abundant salads on the flower-filled terrace.alsace-wine-route.com, suzel-hunawihr.commarthah The Winstub of H\u00f4tel Le Chambard in Kaysersberg has traditional wooden furniture and red-checked tablecloths, but shares a kitchen with the Michelin-starred 64o restaurant. We also loved the restaurant at Hotel Diette in Fouchy, near Vill\u00e9. It\u2019s not the most picturesque place but the local dishes are a delight. Be sure to start with a unique aperitif called asp\u00e9rule, made of wild flowers and white wine: it tastes like you are drinking a meadow!lechambard.fr, hotel-diette.frcrowsnestMulhouse is a lovely small town an hour and a quarter south of Strasbourg by train. An extensive tram system allowed us to visit outlying attractions including the car and train museums. Staff in shops and restaurants were welcoming and friendly and menu prices were reasonable. We stayed at the Mercure Centre (doubles from \u20ac98 room-only, mercure.com), opposite the station. Trips to Basel and Strasbourg and smaller towns in the region, are easily accomplished by train, which makes Mulhouse an excellent base. tourisme-mulhouse.comMrsSueLa Choucrouterie restaurant-theatre is an authentic slice of Alsace life in a Strasbourg backstreet. Wise-cracking moustachioued waiters weave in and out of the tables serving steaming plates of local cuisine based on cheese, chicken, sausages and potatoes for \u20ac12 including a little jug of wine. The whole place is like an improvised theatre \u2013 learn a few words of Alsace dialect and you\u2019ll get extra food or a discount. They also put on shows, sometimes in dialect, in the theatre at the back.restaurantdelachouc.comTheCapeCruiserThis hotel offers great value and is in a quiet neighbourhood close to a botanical garden. It is also a great base for exploring other areas by foot and train \u2013 the station is a short walk from the hotel. There\u2019s also a beautiful river nearby, for a relaxing stroll, and there\u2019s an affordable Alsatian restaurant round the corner. Doubles from \u20ac82 room-only, hotel-princes.comcool_camperFor a very different day out, head to Schirmeck, some 50km from Strasbourg (accessible by car or by train and shuttle bus), for some sobering 20th-century history. During the second world war, Alsace was annexed by Germany, and the Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp was opened in 1941. Shrouded by forests, today the camp and museum are well-preserved and information is presented in a thoughtful manner. Nearby is the Alsace-Moselle memorial museum which traces the history of the region from 1870 to the present day, focusing on the annexations that have shaped it. You need at least two hours to visit this impressive museum, whose sights and sounds will fascinate and move you.struthof.fr, memorial-alsace-moselle.comMichelle Anne HarrisonReally good accommodation with friendly and helpful staff plus a most unexpectedly good restaurant make Hotel de la Poste, up in the Vosges mountains, a must if you\u2019re holidaying, or hiking in that part of Alsace. Hotel de la Poste was a revelation on our hike across the ridges of the Vosges from the railway station at Saint-Amarin via Le Grand Ballon to Riquewihr.Doubles from \u20ac84 B&B, +33 3 89 47 51 10, hotel-la-poste.comsimsh47As a year-abroad student, I was given a tour of the Sundgau (an area in southern Alsace close to the borders of Franche-Comt\u00e9, Switzerland and Germany) in exchange for some English lessons. Visit a boulangerie in the morning to pick up some items for a picnic (Alsatian specialities include bretzels, kugelhopf, tarte au fromage blanc...) and head into the Sundgau, to enjoy views of the Jura mountains and thick forests. The medieval village of Ferrette is particularly beautiful, and the ch\u00e2teau offers stunning views to enjoy while tucking into your picnic.sundgau-sudalsace.frMichelle Anne Harrison On a little square, more reminiscent of a village than a nondescript neighbourhood of Strasbourg (La Meinau) sits this bakery that may have the freshest, tastiest pastries to ever pass these lips (and there have been many), whether it be a pain au chocolat, an eclair or a chausson aux pommes (apple turnover but it tastes better in French). It makes a perfect start to the day and you can burn off the calories walking the hills of Alsace or the alleyways of medieval Strasbourg.19 place Jean Mac\u00e9catchytitled", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "French food and drink", "Cycling holidays", "Walking holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Travel"], "title": "The best of Alsace, France: readers\u2019 tips"},{"date": "2015-09-05T06:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Alsace runs west to east from the pine-clad Vosges mountains through some of the most beautiful vineyards in France, to the mighty Rhine river and the border with Germany. Changing hands several times over the centuries between France and Germany has only strengthened the independent character of this fiercely traditional region, where a unique dialect is still the most popular spoken language.I don\u2019t think I have ever travelled through any other part of France where visitors are given such a genuinely warm welcome, both in the vineyards (Alsace is one of the world pioneers of wine tourism) and the mountains, where an outdoor holiday can take in biking, boating, trekking and fishing. The food is out of this world and distinct from other French regions. A foaming beer is just as popular as a glass of wine, and specialities include not just foie gras and escargots but juicy ham hock with steaming choucroute, pike-perch poached in riesling and spicy gingerbread.What to see and doThe region\u2019s capital is Strasbourg, particularly famous for being the seat of several European institutions and its magnificent red sandstone Gothic cathedral, the world\u2019s tallest building between 1647 and 1874, now celebrating its millennium (its first stone was laid in 1015). The interlocking waterways and brightly painted half-timbered houses of La Petite France, the historic leather-tanning district, is a picturesque must-see, but be prepared for crowds of visitors. More offbeat, and quieter, is the Mus\u00e9e Alsacien, an enchanting maze of rooms illustrating Alsace\u2019s unique culture, and the Cave Historique des Hospices de Strasbourg, a 14th-century wine cellar beneath the modern city hospital, which boasts a barrel of the world\u2019s oldest wine, miraculously preserved since 1472. Mulhouse, 100km south of Strasbourg (off the above map), is the region\u2019s second city, best known for its vast transport museums Cit\u00e9 de l\u2019Automobile (hosting the world\u2019s biggest collection of Bugattis among hundreds of vintage and racing cars) and Cit\u00e9 du Train, and is primarily an industrial town. Between the two cities is Colmar, whose ancient centre is criscrossed by romantic lanes and canals. The town is an architectural goldmine of gothic, renaiissance and baroque mansions and churches. Foodies should not miss the ornate covered market.Where to eatMost of Strasbourg\u2019s traditional winstube (winebars) have been transformed into restaurants, the perfect place to sample local specialities. Cross the river Ill, just outside the historic centre, to eat at Au Pont du Corbeau (mains from \u20ac17, 21 Quai Saint-Nicolas, +33 3 8835 6068), whose menu ranges from escargots and homemade goose foie gras to grumbeerekiechle \u2013 tasty potato pancakes with crunchy smoked bacon. In La Petite France, La Maison des Tanneurs (mains from \u20ac22, 42 rue du Bain aux Plantes, +33 3 8832 7970, maison-des-tanneurs.com) serves an unforgettable choucroute, steaming fermented cabbage topped with a vast pig\u2019s knuckle, salted pork and assorted sausages, though vegetarians will be relieved to discover Pur etc (mains from \u20ac7, 122 Grand Rue, +33 9 8378 3879, pur-etc.fr), whose chefs work directly with local farmers. Colmar has plenty of atmospheric winstube, like the waterside Brenner (mains from \u20ac15, 1 rue Turenne, +33 3 8941 4233, wistub-brenner.fr), but the best address to mix with the locals is the opulent Brasserie Le Th\u00e9\u00e2tre (mains from \u20ac18, 1 rue des Bains, +33 3 8929 2929, restaurantletheatre.net).Where to drinkWith Strasbourg\u2019s big student population there are many cheap and cheerful bars. Au Brasseur (22 rue des Veaux, aubrasseur.fr) is a buzzing microbrewery with artisan beers, such as chocolate malt, while Troquet des Kneckes (112 Grand Rue, on Facebook), \u201cthe catapult bar\u201d, has just opened, with flea market sofas and armchairs, free table football and a big selection of Alsace wines. For live music and clubbing, finish the night at Fat Black Pussycat (3 rue Klein, on Facebook). Colmar may be quieter but there is a great atmosphere in the bustling Bistrot des Halles (13 rue des Ecoles), right in the middle of the food market, and for an after-dinner drink, pop into the cosy bar of Schwendi Bier und Winstub (23 Grand Rue).Where to stayThe funkiest place to stay in Strasbourg is Hotel Graffalgar (doubles from \u20ac90, breakfast \u20ac8, graffalgar-hotel-strasbourg.fr), where graffiti artists have decorated each room, ranging from an Escher-like hommage to Stanley Kubrik in room 203 to the psychedelic bordello of 303. Hotel Suisse (doubles from \u20ac87 B&B, hotel-suisse.com) is perfectly placed opposite the cathedral and Room 33 has a view of the towering pink spire. Colmar\u2019s Hotel Le Colombier (doubles from \u20ac126, breakfast \u20ac14, hotel-le-colombier.fr) is a chic boutique property, while the picturesque half-timbered Hotel Saint Martin (doubles from \u20ac95 B&B, hotel-saint-martin.com) offers much more traditional, homely Alsace decor.What to see and doFounded in 1953, this is the oldest wine route in France, stretching over 150 miles (in the shadow of the Vosges, roughly from the west of Mulhouse to the north of Strasbourg) with more than 1,000 vignerons welcoming visitors to their cellars for a free wine tasting. In September and October the tourism offices of villages along the wine route organise half-day excursions for tourists to join in the grape harvest.The Alsace wine villages have a fairytale quality with their brightly painted cottages, medieval ramparts and distinctive stork nests delicately balanced on church spires. The most beautiful \u2013 Riquewihr, Eguisheim, Kaysersberg and Bergheim \u2013 are very popular with visitors over the summer, so autumn\u2019s a good time to visit, but there are plenty of quieter hamlets such as Saint-Hippolyte and Katzenthal waiting to be discovered. For a cultural break from eating and drinking, visit the medieval Haut-Koenigsbourg, an imposing hilltop chateau, or drive up to the mystic Mont Sainte-Odile, a seventh-century abbey which has its own hotel for visitors who want to stay the night (doubles from \u20ac86, breakfast \u20ac9.80, mont-sainte-odile.com). A great stop-off for anyone travelling with kids is the bewitching Gingerbread Museum (paindepices-lips.com), in Gertwiller, where master baker Michel Habsiger has created a museum dedicated to Hansel and Gretel filled with a cornucopia of retro toys. His boutique is a wonderland of gingerbread and paver varieties.Where to eatThere are plenty of Michelin-starred dining rooms, such as Olivier Nasti\u2019s 64\u00b0 Le Restaurant (9-13 rue du General de Gaulle, +33 3 8947 1017, lechambard.fr), but the bill in these splash-out restaurants is usually going to add up to more than \u20ac100 a head. A much better bet is to join the locals in a winstub. Between Strasbourg and Colmar, check out Molseim\u2019s Caveau de la Metzig (mains from \u20ac12, 1 Place de l\u2019H\u00f4tel de Ville, +33 3 8838 2624, restaurant-la-metzig.fr), housed in a 16th-century butcher\u2019s guildhall, or the lively Les Petites Casseroles (mains from \u20ac15, 128 rue du G\u00e9n\u00e9ral Gouraud, +33 3 8804 7021) in the centre of Obernai. Look out for dishes such as flammekuechen, the Alsace take on pizza, a wafer-thin flatbread smothered with creamy fromage blanc and bacon, and baeckeoffe, a slow-baked casserole of lamb, beef and pork. South of the wine route, the sleepy village of Nierdermorschwihr has several great addresses. Among them is Caveau des Chevaliers de Malte (mains from \u20ac12, 127 rue des Trois Epis, +33 3 8927 0978, caveau-chevaliers.fr), perfect for plump escargots in garlicky butter or veal tripe braised in riesling.Where to taste wineChoice is not the problem when it comes to tasting wine, though be prepared for lengthy sessions, as each vigneron will open up a dozen whites \u2013 sylvaner, riesling, gew\u00fcrztraminer, pinot blanc \u2013 the region\u2019s distinctive red, a light pinot noir, and bubbly cr\u00e9mant d\u2019Alsace. A good place to start understanding these complex vintages is one of the big co-operative cellars, like the Cave de Turckheim (cave-turckheim.com), which has unbeatable prices as well as high quality, or just turn up at the vineyards of two historic winemaking families: Maison Emile Beyer (emile-beyer.fr) and Hugel et Fils (hugel.com). Alsace has an outstanding selection of organic, biodynamic and \u201cnatural\u201d, no-sulphite vignerons. Two to track down are Domaine Weinbach (appointment only, + 33 3 8947 1321, domaineweinbach.com), for an incredible pinot gris, or the Domaine Albert Seltz (appointment only, +33 3 8808 9177, albert-seltz.com), where the eponymous, exuberant owner has raised the humble sylvaner grape into an exquisite grand cru.Where to stayThe Route des Vins is lined by friendly, affordable winemaker B&Bs, the perfect places to let vignerons explain their wines over a relaxed tasting. Dambach-la-Ville is a sleepy village off the beaten track and Andr\u00e9 Ruhlmann (doubles \u20ac62 B&B, ruhlmann-schutz.fr) loves to whisk his guests on a tour of vineyards that have been in his family since 1688. Au Canon (doubles from \u20ac45 B&B, aucanon.com) sits by the ancient ramparts and steep vineyards that enclose the hamlet of Andlau. It used to be the local bistrot, but Madame Nicolas has converted it into a cosy B&B, while her son, a creative young chef, prepares gourmet private dinners for guests who book them in advance. Staying at the Butterlin family\u2019s chambres d\u2019h\u00f4te (doubles from \u20ac65 B&B, gites-kientzheim) is like stepping back in time, with ancient cot-like beds in snug wood-panelled rooms. The owners have plenty of suggestions for cellars to visit along the pretty cobbled streets of Kientzheim, where every inhabitant seems to make wine. For travellers preferring the comfort of a hotel, most villages have several old-fashioned auberges, such as Hotel Hassenforder (doubles from \u20ac70, breakfast \u20ac7.50, roger-hassenforder.com), right in the heart of Kaysersberg.What to see and doThe Vosges mountains run through Alsace from the summit of the 1,400-metre Grand Ballon in the south, then north along the hair-raising bends of the Route des Cr\u00eates, the Petit Ballon and Col de la Schlucht \u2013 regularly featuring in stages of the Tour de France \u2013 up to the border with Germany. Here, the crowds that follow the wine route thin out, and the low mountains, lakes, waterfalls and forests are a paradise for walking and biking, hang-gliding, canyoning and horse riding. Then, when the winter snows arrive, this ranks as the best region in France for cross-country skiing. A favourite waterfall to walk to is just outside Le Hohwald, 40 minutes\u2019 drive south-west of Strasbourg, where a sign for \u201cCascades\u201d leads along a thick forest path where the river Andlau cascades down a steep waterfall.Not all the attractions are outdoor, as at Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines there is a breathaking trip down an ancient silver mine, while the Vall\u00e9e de Vill\u00e9 is lined with artisan distilleries that make fruit brandies. At Distillerie Nusbaumer (jos-nusbaumer.com) the tasting room is usually packed \u2013 be sure that someone acts as designated driver. Where to eat and drinkThis is the land of the ferme-auberge where every pine-clad valley has signs directing travellers to working farms with rustic restaurants. Just outside Le Hohwald, the Deissler family raises cows at the Ferme Auberge Lindenhof (mains from \u20ac12, 11 route du Kreutzweg, +33 3 8808 3198, ferme-auberge-lindenhof.fr) and the roadside diner offers delicious dishes such as succulent roast veal with a creamy wild mushroom sauce and Alsatian spaetzle egg pasta.In the region where Munster cheese is produced, the Ferme Auberge Kahlenwasen (mains from \u20ac7, Luttenbach-pr\u00e8s-Munster, +33 3 8977 3249, on Facebook) sits on a 1,000-metre-high plateau across from the Petit Ballon, and Madame Lochert prepares rustic recipes including a wonderful dessert \u2013 fresh, milky Munster floating in home-brewed kirsch. At the village of Soultzeren, a narrow track through thick forest comes out at the breathtaking Ferme Auberge du Lac de Forlet (mains from \u20ac8, Lac des Truites, Soultzeren, +33 3 8977 4922). It overlooks a stark glacial landscape and what locals call \u201ctrout lake\u201d but, rather than fish, it does simple omelettes and cured ham because no one fishes in the lake anymore.Where to stayAuberge du Mehrb\u00e4chel (doubles from \u20ac65, breakfast \u20ac9.50, auberge-mehrbachel.com) is perfect for exploring the nature trails of the Grand Ballon. The chalet-style rooms have cosy rustic decor and the chef\u2019s speciality is locally caught trout.For a more personal stay, Les Arts Verts (doubles \u20ac80 B&B, chambre-les-arts-verts.com) is an arty new B&B by lake Kruth-Wildenstein, where guests can visit the printmaking studio of owner Didier and have access to a sauna. Driving along to the silver mines of Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines, it is impossible to miss the bright yellow facade of Auberge de la Canardi\u00e8re (doubles from \u20ac43, breakfast \u20ac6, auberge-de-la-canardiere.fr). The very reasonably priced rooms are basic, and the chef tempts guests with his homemade terrines and smoked wildboar ham.For total pampering, splash out at the luxurious Hostellerie La Cheneaudi\u00e8re (doubles from \u20ac185 B&B, cheneaudiere.com). A stay includes use of the spa, with a sauna, hammam, water-jet massage and Jacuzzi.\u2022 John Brunton was a guest of Hostellerie La Cheneaudi\u00e8re. Car hire was provided by carrentals.co.uk. More information is available at tourisme-alsace.com and route-des-vins-alsace.com. EasyJet and Ryanair fly direct to Strasbourg from Stansted and Gatwick, with returns from \u00a310. Returns on Eurostar (change at Paris, eurostar.com) from \u00a398.", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Weekend breaks", "Hotels", "Food and drink", "Wine holidays", "Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Holiday guide to Alsace, France, including Strasbourg"},{"date": "2015-08-24T05:30:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "By Benjamin Mialot, editor-in-chief of culture and leisure guide Le Petit BulletinOften regarded as being like Paris, but on a more human scale, Lyon is unusual among European cities in combining the museums and galleries of a cultural capital with the dynamism of a former industrial hub.France is a world-beater in lots of things (strikes, pretentiousness, kissing) but its towns and cities are also masters at according themselves the title of capital of something, be it a skill, a dish or a pastime.Lyon can boast many such titles: gastronomy capital, silk capital and ancient capital of the Gauls. But it was also the capital of repression when it came to electronic dance music. In the middle of the 1990s, when the rave revolution was at its height, the city did its best to stamp it out, by means ranging from the refusal of late-night licences to calling in the riot police.You won\u2019t find this snippet of local history in any of Lyon\u2019s museums, though. The city has since embraced rave culture as one of its main attractions, and it has never been so easy to burn the candle at both ends \u2013 at 130 beats per minute. The big event is the five-day Nuits Sonores festival each May, which celebrated its 12th birthday this year, but every weekend in Lyon sees dozens of DJs and promoters playing all over the city in dedicated electro clubs (DV1, Terminal, Petit Salon); on river barges (Sirius, Marquise, Sonic); and in big concert venues on the outskirts such as Kao and Transbordeur.One venue in particular epitomises this soaraway success: Le Sucre (see below), in an eyrie on the roof of a former sugar factory that\u2019s now a contemporary arts centre, and run by the team behind Nuits Sonores. It is one of the landmarks of La Confluence, the newly revitalised industrial area on a tongue of land between the rivers Sa\u00f4ne and Rh\u00f4ne, dotted with statement architecture, such as the new Mus\u00e9e des Confluences.La Confluence is part of a feel-good development that included the pedestrianisation of the two river banks and has brought with it an element of gentrification not unlike that happening in Lyon\u2019s 7th arrondissement, to the west. This multicultural and until recently relatively affordable district has seen the city\u2019s trendiest new restaurant openings and its most interesting nightlife (DIY Live Station, Le Caf\u00e9 du Rh\u00f4ne) \u2013 to the point where it is taking over from the former silk manufacturing Croix Rousse district as the city\u2019s most happening area.But all up and coming areas eventually reach a plateau, and it becomes the turn of another district to attract a young crowd. In Lyon it\u2019s now the inner suburbs \u2013 thanks to citizen politics in places like Villeurbanne, and the transformation of the Grrrnd Zero squat at Vaulx-en-Velin into a place of pilgrimage for underground music (see below) \u2013 that must nurture new avant-garde movements.By promoters Paulin Gr\u00e9goire, Matthias Perrette and Kimi Do (who work as Merci Bonsoir)The cultural offering in Lyon is huge. There\u2019s lots of energy: people creating things, and also people organising events, setting up music labels. These projects often prompt established places into upping their game and undertaking big revamps.Our favourite space is probably the March\u00e9 Gare. It holds 300 people, and there\u2019s a Berlin feel to its 1970s public-sector building vibe. The music is indie, in the widest sense. In the same part of La Confluence, Le Sucre has rapidly become Lyon\u2019s big name electro-dance club, hosting internationally known acts.Transbordeur is one of Lyon\u2019s largest venues by capacity, but stands out for its eclectic choice of acts and its indie credentials. It\u2019s in a former factory and has kept its look industrial, with a huge gantry hanging over the bar. It\u2019s at its most fun during Summer Sessions, an outdoor programme with concerts, street art and film screenings in a group of old containers. Then there\u2019s l\u2019Epicerie Moderne, a little further out, which is the Lyon area\u2019s temple to indie music.In a recently decommissioned factory in Vaulx-en-Velin, Grrrnd Zero is the heart of underground Lyon. Its carefully curated programme and dizzying list of events make it a must-do, with building work going on all around you.The best rock music club is still Le Sonic, on a barge moored by the Gare de Perrache. It has low pinkish lighting, red walls and well-chosen acts. You could be lucky enough to find Thurston Moore playing: he says this is his favourite club in Lyon.Another place to hear live music over a drink or two is Le Trokson. It puts on free concerts several nights a week, leaning towards garage, surf and psychedelic sounds. It\u2019s a nice looking spot, with a vaulted basement room and a convivial atmosphere and is my favourite place in the historic 1st arrondissement, but there\u2019s also Les Capucins, a relaxed bar for a few drinks with friends, and there are regular gigs in its basement. It\u2019s right across the road from a picturesque building used as a Scientology centre. Still on the slopes of the Croix Rousse district, not-for-profit bar La Triperie is the perfect place to catch an underground gig, with old stone walls, parquet flooring, pinball machines and bottled beer, but it\u2019s hard to find out what\u2019s going on there \u2013 you have to look out for posters around town.There\u2019s a similar ambience at Le Caf\u00e9 du Rh\u00f4ne on the river bank (as the name suggests), which is also a good daytime stop for a beer and the dish of the day. At night, head downstairs to the basement for concerts, especially ones promoted by French alternative pop outfit La Souterraine. And don\u2019t forget Kraspek Myzik, an independent record shop by day and concert venue by night; its tiny proportions make every evening unique.Another fine record shop is Dangerhouse, the oldest in Lyon. It\u2019s a treasure trove of garage-rock and 1960s music, its bins overflow with everything from classic albums to unusual finds. Sofa is also very highly regarded, particularly for its African, South American and Asian collection of vinyl. By Guillaume Long, a Geneva-born graphic novel writer, blogger (A boire et \u00e0 manger) and illustratorLyon is known for the great gastronomic tradition of bouchons, traditional taverns of a kind that these days I rarely visit. Most bouchons are pretty poor, and I don\u2019t think they do the city\u2019s image any favours. There are places being opened up by talented young chefs that deserve more attention.There are exceptions to this rule, however. For \u201creal\u201d Lyonnaise cuisine, I\u2019d recommend Le Garet (7 rue du Garet, no website). It\u2019s typical of the city and a bit twee, with its wood panelling, checked tablecloths and suitably gruff owner. You eat packed together in a convivial atmosphere. Another bouchon I like is Daniel et Denise (156 rue de Cr\u00e8qui) in the old town. Its chef is Joseph Viola, winner of a prestigious Meilleur Ouvrier de France award (best craftsman of France) and his cooking is exceptional.The 7th arrondissement, where I live, is flourishing culturally and has lots of informal bistro-type restaurants, which are much more my kind of thing for everyday eating. In the three years I have lived here, I\u2019ve seen the opening of loads of little places that are worth seeking out. There\u2019s Les Pralins (62 rue S\u00e9bastien Gryphe) for Sunday brunch; le Stamtich (44 rue Raulin), where you can eat real flammekueche (a sort of Alsatian pizza) and sumptuous banoffee pie; and Nam Sandwich (12 Place Raspail), where you can get a tasty banh mi Vietnamese sandwich to take away and eat by the Rh\u00f4ne.For something a bit more exotic, try Chez Terra (81 rue Duguesclin) in the 6th arrondissement: it\u2019s a brilliant Japanese restaurant where the menu is short, but everything\u2019s delicious. Then there\u2019s Doshilack (28 rue de Marseilles), in the multicultural Guilloti\u00e8re district, for divine Korean food.For drinks, head for Le Bistrot des Fauves (29 rue Saint Michael), which does good beer. Sit at one of several mismatched tables and enjoy it with a very good plate of cheese and charcuterie. It puts on exhibitions from time to time, there are magazines lying around and the clientele is quite boho.But my true favourite is Le Kitchen Caf\u00e9 (34 rue Chevreul), a stone\u2019s throw from my house. The cooking is Franco-Swedish, all made with locally grown produce. It has old sewing machines as lamp stands and table legs, and is a very popular meeting place. The coffee is good, and I always go for the homemade patisserie: cookies, financiers (almond sponge cakes) and petit fours are all top class, at reasonable prices. Close to the Gare de Lyon-Perrache, Caf\u00e9 Marmot (51 rue de la Charit\u00e9) is also worth a trip. Its cookies are delicious and the atmosphere is friendly. Le Pal\u00e9gri\u00e9 (8 rue du Palais Grillet) is a bit like Le Kitchen Caf\u00e9, with reasonable prices. It\u2019s a simple but very refined little place, where the staff can advise on the choice of excellent wines.By Julie Rodriguez-Malti, co-director of the N\u00e9on art collectiveWhen we started out, there were just three galleries in rue Burdeau in the 1st arrondissement. Today there are 15 or so, thanks to the local authority. When they saw what we were doing, they made it financially attractive for other galleries to set up here, too.I used to love going to the Salle de Bains not-for-profit arts centre up in Croix Rousse. It has been working peripatetically in Lyon\u2019s museums and galleries since it lost the lease on its premises last year. Through it I discovered lots of young artists from around the world. Apart from that, I love the exhibitions put on by Galerie Mathieu, which displays some lovely minimalist pieces. It is a gallery very much of its era \u2013 it was set up in 1979 \u2013 with real character and a taste for geometric abstraction.Lower down in the Croix Rousse quarter is L\u2019Oeil de Beouf, an arts studio that\u2019s very young and eclectic, open just six months of the year. Its backers don\u2019t really communicate much, except on social media, but they organise concerts for each new show. And I often get a nice surpise at the Datta bookshop, which as well as magazines and periodicals, has a small space for showing nice pieces of design, illustration and graphic art.You can also admire the photography of Gilles Vernet at Le Bleu du Ciel. His work has sociological leanings, but is done with lots of panache. And the setting of the gallery is fantastic and has an incredible view over the whole of Lyon.In the 7th arrondissement, there are three places in particular worth seeking out. One is a little shop window affair called Bikini, on rue de la Thibaudi\u00e8re. You can\u2019t go in, except on opening nights; you just look from outside. A little notice goes up each month, telling you about shows and how long they are on for. It can seem frustrating, but it is in fact very generous.On the same street there\u2019s a new gallery called Snap, set up by a sculptor called Paul Raguenes, which has quite big ideas. Its attitude is like that of a Parisian gallery: he\u2019s not afraid of showing large attention-grabbing pieces of work.And finally, while in the area, make time for the Ilot d\u2019Amaranthes garden at the junction of Rue d\u2019Anvers and Rue de la Thibaudi\u00e8re, which was designed by the artist Emmanuel Louisgrand (with support from Galerie Tator). Once a vacant plot between two buildings, it has become a unique community space, with some amazing roses. If I had to move house, I would go to the 7th arrondissement. It has the freshness and vibrancy the Croix Rousse slopes had a few years ago.The most unusual place I know is over towards the \u00cele Barbe, an island in the Sa\u00f4ne in the 9th arrondissement. It\u2019s called L\u2019Attrape-couleurs, and the walk there along the banks of the river is magical. It\u2019s in the annex of a town hall, a big space with parquet floors and a marble fireplace, opposite the famous Jocteur bakery. The artists curate the shows themselves and you can find works you won\u2019t see anywhere else.\u2022 If you\u2019d like to find out more about what\u2019s on at galleries in Lyon check out Adele, which is published by an association of all the contemporary galleries in the cityThere\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Lyon. Here are just a few \u2013 you\u2019ll find more readers\u2019 tips here.Enjoy Lyon by bikeGet yourself lost down cobbled streets and across countless bridges in this extremely bike-friendly city. Take the tour along the quais (the banks of the river Sa\u00f4ne and Rh\u00f4ne), particularly Quai St Vincent (underneath La Croix-Rousse looking up to Lyon\u2019s miniature version of the Eiffel Tower). Cycle all the way along the bank until you get to the tunnel de La Croix-Rousse, a cyclist/pedestrian-only tunnel stretching from east to west built under the bohemian arts district known as Croix Rousse. A surreal ride accompanied by music and dancing animals projected onto the wall. When you reach the other side, cross the bridge towards the Parc de la T\u00eate d\u2019Or, a huge park with a lake, pedalos and even a zoo!Rose LabdonA fine time with food and wineLa Vo\u00fbte Chez L\u00e9a is a great restaurant, similar menu-wise to Lyon\u2019s many bouchons but the standard of cooking was a good few notches above most. La Cave de C\u00e9cile is a great wine bar in an atmospheric setting with a by-the-glass selection that changes daily. Also, try Bernachon, which is a famous chocolate shop and cafe. Tip: the selection in the shop is much the same, and much cheaper, than the neighbouring cafe. Dave StentonThe best beers \u2013 and great burgersLyon is getting more and more of a taste for beer. Several bars dedicated to quality beers have opened these last few years. One of the oldest is the Le Palais de la Bi\u00e8re, with more than 300 beers available. The Ninkasi is a local brewery with several bars around town. The Beers has a friendly atmosphere and is close to the Vieux Lyon. The 405 is close to the town hall and has 40 beers on tap \u2013 and shows rugby matches on widescreen TVs around the bar. Les Fleurs du Malt may be a bit pricey but it stocks rare beers and its bartenders know their job. In summer, there\u2019s an amazing beer garden by the river at the Star Ferry, which has a wide selection of beers from all over the world, and great burgers.GlasnyDiscover the city\u2019s on-trend areasVisit SoBell (South Bellecour), the trendy name for the area south of Place Bellecour and before Perrache train station. Take the metro to Ampere, to where the 2nd arrondissement is shaking down its shabby self with chic new restaurants, such as Comptoire Thomas, and galleries and boutiques (try the Rh\u00f4ne side for late local bars, though it\u2019s a bit prickly around the edges). On the Sa\u00f4ne side you\u2019ll find more tranquil cafes and historic ramparts.LyonLondonStroll, savour and learnWander round the medieval old town (France\u2019s largest, and a Unesco world heritage site). When you do though, give the odd front door a gentle push. If it opens, it may well lead you into one of Lyon\u2019s (once hidden but now famous) traboules, or passageways. Originally used by the city\u2019s merchants as a short-cut to and from the river, the traboules became vital to the city\u2019s resistance movement during the second world war, as they gave resistance fighters who knew the city a means of escape from the Gestapo. The Gestapo headquarters is now the Resistance and Deportation History Centre.James King", "tags": ["Lyon holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture", "Cities"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Lyon, France"},{"date": "2015-09-03T10:45:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "With almost 1,000km of cycle routes and paths, Alsace is a cyclists\u2019 paradise. There are routes for all abilities and bikes, all signposted with great clarity, amid sun-kissed rolling hills and vineyards \u2013 though go prepared for frequent showers. Start at Strasbourg, and head down the flat valleys to the wonderful medieval streets of Colmar, for an easy, scenic start. Bike hire from \u20ac20 at day at Strasbourg\u2019s many youth hostels.Routes and accommodation at alsaceavelo.frfuninfinlandThe Grands Crus wine trail is a scenic 17km loop linking six Alsace winemaking villages. Tackle it on foot or mountain bike for unbeatable views across the vines to the rooftops below, learning a little about the winemaking process from the info boards along the route. Highlights include the half-timbered honeypot of Riquewihr, deservedly one of Les Plus Beaux Villages de France and many opportunities for a d\u00e9gustation in each village. Hunawihr, another of the plus beaux villages is peaceful, with a great lunch spot at Chez Suzel: we had abundant salads on the flower-filled terrace.alsace-wine-route.com, suzel-hunawihr.commarthah The Winstub of H\u00f4tel Le Chambard in Kaysersberg has traditional wooden furniture and red-checked tablecloths, but shares a kitchen with the Michelin-starred 64o restaurant. We also loved the restaurant at Hotel Diette in Fouchy, near Vill\u00e9. It\u2019s not the most picturesque place but the local dishes are a delight. Be sure to start with a unique aperitif called asp\u00e9rule, made of wild flowers and white wine: it tastes like you are drinking a meadow!lechambard.fr, hotel-diette.frcrowsnestMulhouse is a lovely small town an hour and a quarter south of Strasbourg by train. An extensive tram system allowed us to visit outlying attractions including the car and train museums. Staff in shops and restaurants were welcoming and friendly and menu prices were reasonable. We stayed at the Mercure Centre (doubles from \u20ac98 room-only, mercure.com), opposite the station. Trips to Basel and Strasbourg and smaller towns in the region, are easily accomplished by train, which makes Mulhouse an excellent base. tourisme-mulhouse.comMrsSueLa Choucrouterie restaurant-theatre is an authentic slice of Alsace life in a Strasbourg backstreet. Wise-cracking moustachioued waiters weave in and out of the tables serving steaming plates of local cuisine based on cheese, chicken, sausages and potatoes for \u20ac12 including a little jug of wine. The whole place is like an improvised theatre \u2013 learn a few words of Alsace dialect and you\u2019ll get extra food or a discount. They also put on shows, sometimes in dialect, in the theatre at the back.restaurantdelachouc.comTheCapeCruiserThis hotel offers great value and is in a quiet neighbourhood close to a botanical garden. It is also a great base for exploring other areas by foot and train \u2013 the station is a short walk from the hotel. There\u2019s also a beautiful river nearby, for a relaxing stroll, and there\u2019s an affordable Alsatian restaurant round the corner. Doubles from \u20ac82 room-only, hotel-princes.comcool_camperFor a very different day out, head to Schirmeck, some 50km from Strasbourg (accessible by car or by train and shuttle bus), for some sobering 20th-century history. During the second world war, Alsace was annexed by Germany, and the Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp was opened in 1941. Shrouded by forests, today the camp and museum are well-preserved and information is presented in a thoughtful manner. Nearby is the Alsace-Moselle memorial museum which traces the history of the region from 1870 to the present day, focusing on the annexations that have shaped it. You need at least two hours to visit this impressive museum, whose sights and sounds will fascinate and move you.struthof.fr, memorial-alsace-moselle.comMichelle Anne HarrisonReally good accommodation with friendly and helpful staff plus a most unexpectedly good restaurant make Hotel de la Poste, up in the Vosges mountains, a must if you\u2019re holidaying, or hiking in that part of Alsace. Hotel de la Poste was a revelation on our hike across the ridges of the Vosges from the railway station at Saint-Amarin via Le Grand Ballon to Riquewihr.Doubles from \u20ac84 B&B, +33 3 89 47 51 10, hotel-la-poste.comsimsh47As a year-abroad student, I was given a tour of the Sundgau (an area in southern Alsace close to the borders of Franche-Comt\u00e9, Switzerland and Germany) in exchange for some English lessons. Visit a boulangerie in the morning to pick up some items for a picnic (Alsatian specialities include bretzels, kugelhopf, tarte au fromage blanc...) and head into the Sundgau, to enjoy views of the Jura mountains and thick forests. The medieval village of Ferrette is particularly beautiful, and the ch\u00e2teau offers stunning views to enjoy while tucking into your picnic.sundgau-sudalsace.frMichelle Anne Harrison On a little square, more reminiscent of a village than a nondescript neighbourhood of Strasbourg (La Meinau) sits this bakery that may have the freshest, tastiest pastries to ever pass these lips (and there have been many), whether it be a pain au chocolat, an eclair or a chausson aux pommes (apple turnover but it tastes better in French). It makes a perfect start to the day and you can burn off the calories walking the hills of Alsace or the alleyways of medieval Strasbourg.19 place Jean Mac\u00e9catchytitled", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "French food and drink", "Cycling holidays", "Walking holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Travel"], "title": "The best of Alsace, France: readers\u2019 tips"},{"date": "2015-09-05T06:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Alsace runs west to east from the pine-clad Vosges mountains through some of the most beautiful vineyards in France, to the mighty Rhine river and the border with Germany. Changing hands several times over the centuries between France and Germany has only strengthened the independent character of this fiercely traditional region, where a unique dialect is still the most popular spoken language.I don\u2019t think I have ever travelled through any other part of France where visitors are given such a genuinely warm welcome, both in the vineyards (Alsace is one of the world pioneers of wine tourism) and the mountains, where an outdoor holiday can take in biking, boating, trekking and fishing. The food is out of this world and distinct from other French regions. A foaming beer is just as popular as a glass of wine, and specialities include not just foie gras and escargots but juicy ham hock with steaming choucroute, pike-perch poached in riesling and spicy gingerbread.What to see and doThe region\u2019s capital is Strasbourg, particularly famous for being the seat of several European institutions and its magnificent red sandstone Gothic cathedral, the world\u2019s tallest building between 1647 and 1874, now celebrating its millennium (its first stone was laid in 1015). The interlocking waterways and brightly painted half-timbered houses of La Petite France, the historic leather-tanning district, is a picturesque must-see, but be prepared for crowds of visitors. More offbeat, and quieter, is the Mus\u00e9e Alsacien, an enchanting maze of rooms illustrating Alsace\u2019s unique culture, and the Cave Historique des Hospices de Strasbourg, a 14th-century wine cellar beneath the modern city hospital, which boasts a barrel of the world\u2019s oldest wine, miraculously preserved since 1472. Mulhouse, 100km south of Strasbourg (off the above map), is the region\u2019s second city, best known for its vast transport museums Cit\u00e9 de l\u2019Automobile (hosting the world\u2019s biggest collection of Bugattis among hundreds of vintage and racing cars) and Cit\u00e9 du Train, and is primarily an industrial town. Between the two cities is Colmar, whose ancient centre is criscrossed by romantic lanes and canals. The town is an architectural goldmine of gothic, renaiissance and baroque mansions and churches. Foodies should not miss the ornate covered market.Where to eatMost of Strasbourg\u2019s traditional winstube (winebars) have been transformed into restaurants, the perfect place to sample local specialities. Cross the river Ill, just outside the historic centre, to eat at Au Pont du Corbeau (mains from \u20ac17, 21 Quai Saint-Nicolas, +33 3 8835 6068), whose menu ranges from escargots and homemade goose foie gras to grumbeerekiechle \u2013 tasty potato pancakes with crunchy smoked bacon. In La Petite France, La Maison des Tanneurs (mains from \u20ac22, 42 rue du Bain aux Plantes, +33 3 8832 7970, maison-des-tanneurs.com) serves an unforgettable choucroute, steaming fermented cabbage topped with a vast pig\u2019s knuckle, salted pork and assorted sausages, though vegetarians will be relieved to discover Pur etc (mains from \u20ac7, 122 Grand Rue, +33 9 8378 3879, pur-etc.fr), whose chefs work directly with local farmers. Colmar has plenty of atmospheric winstube, like the waterside Brenner (mains from \u20ac15, 1 rue Turenne, +33 3 8941 4233, wistub-brenner.fr), but the best address to mix with the locals is the opulent Brasserie Le Th\u00e9\u00e2tre (mains from \u20ac18, 1 rue des Bains, +33 3 8929 2929, restaurantletheatre.net).Where to drinkWith Strasbourg\u2019s big student population there are many cheap and cheerful bars. Au Brasseur (22 rue des Veaux, aubrasseur.fr) is a buzzing microbrewery with artisan beers, such as chocolate malt, while Troquet des Kneckes (112 Grand Rue, on Facebook), \u201cthe catapult bar\u201d, has just opened, with flea market sofas and armchairs, free table football and a big selection of Alsace wines. For live music and clubbing, finish the night at Fat Black Pussycat (3 rue Klein, on Facebook). Colmar may be quieter but there is a great atmosphere in the bustling Bistrot des Halles (13 rue des Ecoles), right in the middle of the food market, and for an after-dinner drink, pop into the cosy bar of Schwendi Bier und Winstub (23 Grand Rue).Where to stayThe funkiest place to stay in Strasbourg is Hotel Graffalgar (doubles from \u20ac90, breakfast \u20ac8, graffalgar-hotel-strasbourg.fr), where graffiti artists have decorated each room, ranging from an Escher-like hommage to Stanley Kubrik in room 203 to the psychedelic bordello of 303. Hotel Suisse (doubles from \u20ac87 B&B, hotel-suisse.com) is perfectly placed opposite the cathedral and Room 33 has a view of the towering pink spire. Colmar\u2019s Hotel Le Colombier (doubles from \u20ac126, breakfast \u20ac14, hotel-le-colombier.fr) is a chic boutique property, while the picturesque half-timbered Hotel Saint Martin (doubles from \u20ac95 B&B, hotel-saint-martin.com) offers much more traditional, homely Alsace decor.What to see and doFounded in 1953, this is the oldest wine route in France, stretching over 150 miles (in the shadow of the Vosges, roughly from the west of Mulhouse to the north of Strasbourg) with more than 1,000 vignerons welcoming visitors to their cellars for a free wine tasting. In September and October the tourism offices of villages along the wine route organise half-day excursions for tourists to join in the grape harvest.The Alsace wine villages have a fairytale quality with their brightly painted cottages, medieval ramparts and distinctive stork nests delicately balanced on church spires. The most beautiful \u2013 Riquewihr, Eguisheim, Kaysersberg and Bergheim \u2013 are very popular with visitors over the summer, so autumn\u2019s a good time to visit, but there are plenty of quieter hamlets such as Saint-Hippolyte and Katzenthal waiting to be discovered. For a cultural break from eating and drinking, visit the medieval Haut-Koenigsbourg, an imposing hilltop chateau, or drive up to the mystic Mont Sainte-Odile, a seventh-century abbey which has its own hotel for visitors who want to stay the night (doubles from \u20ac86, breakfast \u20ac9.80, mont-sainte-odile.com). A great stop-off for anyone travelling with kids is the bewitching Gingerbread Museum (paindepices-lips.com), in Gertwiller, where master baker Michel Habsiger has created a museum dedicated to Hansel and Gretel filled with a cornucopia of retro toys. His boutique is a wonderland of gingerbread and paver varieties.Where to eatThere are plenty of Michelin-starred dining rooms, such as Olivier Nasti\u2019s 64\u00b0 Le Restaurant (9-13 rue du General de Gaulle, +33 3 8947 1017, lechambard.fr), but the bill in these splash-out restaurants is usually going to add up to more than \u20ac100 a head. A much better bet is to join the locals in a winstub. Between Strasbourg and Colmar, check out Molseim\u2019s Caveau de la Metzig (mains from \u20ac12, 1 Place de l\u2019H\u00f4tel de Ville, +33 3 8838 2624, restaurant-la-metzig.fr), housed in a 16th-century butcher\u2019s guildhall, or the lively Les Petites Casseroles (mains from \u20ac15, 128 rue du G\u00e9n\u00e9ral Gouraud, +33 3 8804 7021) in the centre of Obernai. Look out for dishes such as flammekuechen, the Alsace take on pizza, a wafer-thin flatbread smothered with creamy fromage blanc and bacon, and baeckeoffe, a slow-baked casserole of lamb, beef and pork. South of the wine route, the sleepy village of Nierdermorschwihr has several great addresses. Among them is Caveau des Chevaliers de Malte (mains from \u20ac12, 127 rue des Trois Epis, +33 3 8927 0978, caveau-chevaliers.fr), perfect for plump escargots in garlicky butter or veal tripe braised in riesling.Where to taste wineChoice is not the problem when it comes to tasting wine, though be prepared for lengthy sessions, as each vigneron will open up a dozen whites \u2013 sylvaner, riesling, gew\u00fcrztraminer, pinot blanc \u2013 the region\u2019s distinctive red, a light pinot noir, and bubbly cr\u00e9mant d\u2019Alsace. A good place to start understanding these complex vintages is one of the big co-operative cellars, like the Cave de Turckheim (cave-turckheim.com), which has unbeatable prices as well as high quality, or just turn up at the vineyards of two historic winemaking families: Maison Emile Beyer (emile-beyer.fr) and Hugel et Fils (hugel.com). Alsace has an outstanding selection of organic, biodynamic and \u201cnatural\u201d, no-sulphite vignerons. Two to track down are Domaine Weinbach (appointment only, + 33 3 8947 1321, domaineweinbach.com), for an incredible pinot gris, or the Domaine Albert Seltz (appointment only, +33 3 8808 9177, albert-seltz.com), where the eponymous, exuberant owner has raised the humble sylvaner grape into an exquisite grand cru.Where to stayThe Route des Vins is lined by friendly, affordable winemaker B&Bs, the perfect places to let vignerons explain their wines over a relaxed tasting. Dambach-la-Ville is a sleepy village off the beaten track and Andr\u00e9 Ruhlmann (doubles \u20ac62 B&B, ruhlmann-schutz.fr) loves to whisk his guests on a tour of vineyards that have been in his family since 1688. Au Canon (doubles from \u20ac45 B&B, aucanon.com) sits by the ancient ramparts and steep vineyards that enclose the hamlet of Andlau. It used to be the local bistrot, but Madame Nicolas has converted it into a cosy B&B, while her son, a creative young chef, prepares gourmet private dinners for guests who book them in advance. Staying at the Butterlin family\u2019s chambres d\u2019h\u00f4te (doubles from \u20ac65 B&B, gites-kientzheim) is like stepping back in time, with ancient cot-like beds in snug wood-panelled rooms. The owners have plenty of suggestions for cellars to visit along the pretty cobbled streets of Kientzheim, where every inhabitant seems to make wine. For travellers preferring the comfort of a hotel, most villages have several old-fashioned auberges, such as Hotel Hassenforder (doubles from \u20ac70, breakfast \u20ac7.50, roger-hassenforder.com), right in the heart of Kaysersberg.What to see and doThe Vosges mountains run through Alsace from the summit of the 1,400-metre Grand Ballon in the south, then north along the hair-raising bends of the Route des Cr\u00eates, the Petit Ballon and Col de la Schlucht \u2013 regularly featuring in stages of the Tour de France \u2013 up to the border with Germany. Here, the crowds that follow the wine route thin out, and the low mountains, lakes, waterfalls and forests are a paradise for walking and biking, hang-gliding, canyoning and horse riding. Then, when the winter snows arrive, this ranks as the best region in France for cross-country skiing. A favourite waterfall to walk to is just outside Le Hohwald, 40 minutes\u2019 drive south-west of Strasbourg, where a sign for \u201cCascades\u201d leads along a thick forest path where the river Andlau cascades down a steep waterfall.Not all the attractions are outdoor, as at Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines there is a breathaking trip down an ancient silver mine, while the Vall\u00e9e de Vill\u00e9 is lined with artisan distilleries that make fruit brandies. At Distillerie Nusbaumer (jos-nusbaumer.com) the tasting room is usually packed \u2013 be sure that someone acts as designated driver. Where to eat and drinkThis is the land of the ferme-auberge where every pine-clad valley has signs directing travellers to working farms with rustic restaurants. Just outside Le Hohwald, the Deissler family raises cows at the Ferme Auberge Lindenhof (mains from \u20ac12, 11 route du Kreutzweg, +33 3 8808 3198, ferme-auberge-lindenhof.fr) and the roadside diner offers delicious dishes such as succulent roast veal with a creamy wild mushroom sauce and Alsatian spaetzle egg pasta.In the region where Munster cheese is produced, the Ferme Auberge Kahlenwasen (mains from \u20ac7, Luttenbach-pr\u00e8s-Munster, +33 3 8977 3249, on Facebook) sits on a 1,000-metre-high plateau across from the Petit Ballon, and Madame Lochert prepares rustic recipes including a wonderful dessert \u2013 fresh, milky Munster floating in home-brewed kirsch. At the village of Soultzeren, a narrow track through thick forest comes out at the breathtaking Ferme Auberge du Lac de Forlet (mains from \u20ac8, Lac des Truites, Soultzeren, +33 3 8977 4922). It overlooks a stark glacial landscape and what locals call \u201ctrout lake\u201d but, rather than fish, it does simple omelettes and cured ham because no one fishes in the lake anymore.Where to stayAuberge du Mehrb\u00e4chel (doubles from \u20ac65, breakfast \u20ac9.50, auberge-mehrbachel.com) is perfect for exploring the nature trails of the Grand Ballon. The chalet-style rooms have cosy rustic decor and the chef\u2019s speciality is locally caught trout.For a more personal stay, Les Arts Verts (doubles \u20ac80 B&B, chambre-les-arts-verts.com) is an arty new B&B by lake Kruth-Wildenstein, where guests can visit the printmaking studio of owner Didier and have access to a sauna. Driving along to the silver mines of Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines, it is impossible to miss the bright yellow facade of Auberge de la Canardi\u00e8re (doubles from \u20ac43, breakfast \u20ac6, auberge-de-la-canardiere.fr). The very reasonably priced rooms are basic, and the chef tempts guests with his homemade terrines and smoked wildboar ham.For total pampering, splash out at the luxurious Hostellerie La Cheneaudi\u00e8re (doubles from \u20ac185 B&B, cheneaudiere.com). A stay includes use of the spa, with a sauna, hammam, water-jet massage and Jacuzzi.\u2022 John Brunton was a guest of Hostellerie La Cheneaudi\u00e8re. Car hire was provided by carrentals.co.uk. More information is available at tourisme-alsace.com and route-des-vins-alsace.com. EasyJet and Ryanair fly direct to Strasbourg from Stansted and Gatwick, with returns from \u00a310. Returns on Eurostar (change at Paris, eurostar.com) from \u00a398.", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Weekend breaks", "Hotels", "Food and drink", "Wine holidays", "Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Holiday guide to Alsace, France, including Strasbourg"},{"date": "2015-08-24T05:30:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "By Benjamin Mialot, editor-in-chief of culture and leisure guide Le Petit BulletinOften regarded as being like Paris, but on a more human scale, Lyon is unusual among European cities in combining the museums and galleries of a cultural capital with the dynamism of a former industrial hub.France is a world-beater in lots of things (strikes, pretentiousness, kissing) but its towns and cities are also masters at according themselves the title of capital of something, be it a skill, a dish or a pastime.Lyon can boast many such titles: gastronomy capital, silk capital and ancient capital of the Gauls. But it was also the capital of repression when it came to electronic dance music. In the middle of the 1990s, when the rave revolution was at its height, the city did its best to stamp it out, by means ranging from the refusal of late-night licences to calling in the riot police.You won\u2019t find this snippet of local history in any of Lyon\u2019s museums, though. The city has since embraced rave culture as one of its main attractions, and it has never been so easy to burn the candle at both ends \u2013 at 130 beats per minute. The big event is the five-day Nuits Sonores festival each May, which celebrated its 12th birthday this year, but every weekend in Lyon sees dozens of DJs and promoters playing all over the city in dedicated electro clubs (DV1, Terminal, Petit Salon); on river barges (Sirius, Marquise, Sonic); and in big concert venues on the outskirts such as Kao and Transbordeur.One venue in particular epitomises this soaraway success: Le Sucre (see below), in an eyrie on the roof of a former sugar factory that\u2019s now a contemporary arts centre, and run by the team behind Nuits Sonores. It is one of the landmarks of La Confluence, the newly revitalised industrial area on a tongue of land between the rivers Sa\u00f4ne and Rh\u00f4ne, dotted with statement architecture, such as the new Mus\u00e9e des Confluences.La Confluence is part of a feel-good development that included the pedestrianisation of the two river banks and has brought with it an element of gentrification not unlike that happening in Lyon\u2019s 7th arrondissement, to the west. This multicultural and until recently relatively affordable district has seen the city\u2019s trendiest new restaurant openings and its most interesting nightlife (DIY Live Station, Le Caf\u00e9 du Rh\u00f4ne) \u2013 to the point where it is taking over from the former silk manufacturing Croix Rousse district as the city\u2019s most happening area.But all up and coming areas eventually reach a plateau, and it becomes the turn of another district to attract a young crowd. In Lyon it\u2019s now the inner suburbs \u2013 thanks to citizen politics in places like Villeurbanne, and the transformation of the Grrrnd Zero squat at Vaulx-en-Velin into a place of pilgrimage for underground music (see below) \u2013 that must nurture new avant-garde movements.By promoters Paulin Gr\u00e9goire, Matthias Perrette and Kimi Do (who work as Merci Bonsoir)The cultural offering in Lyon is huge. There\u2019s lots of energy: people creating things, and also people organising events, setting up music labels. These projects often prompt established places into upping their game and undertaking big revamps.Our favourite space is probably the March\u00e9 Gare. It holds 300 people, and there\u2019s a Berlin feel to its 1970s public-sector building vibe. The music is indie, in the widest sense. In the same part of La Confluence, Le Sucre has rapidly become Lyon\u2019s big name electro-dance club, hosting internationally known acts.Transbordeur is one of Lyon\u2019s largest venues by capacity, but stands out for its eclectic choice of acts and its indie credentials. It\u2019s in a former factory and has kept its look industrial, with a huge gantry hanging over the bar. It\u2019s at its most fun during Summer Sessions, an outdoor programme with concerts, street art and film screenings in a group of old containers. Then there\u2019s l\u2019Epicerie Moderne, a little further out, which is the Lyon area\u2019s temple to indie music.In a recently decommissioned factory in Vaulx-en-Velin, Grrrnd Zero is the heart of underground Lyon. Its carefully curated programme and dizzying list of events make it a must-do, with building work going on all around you.The best rock music club is still Le Sonic, on a barge moored by the Gare de Perrache. It has low pinkish lighting, red walls and well-chosen acts. You could be lucky enough to find Thurston Moore playing: he says this is his favourite club in Lyon.Another place to hear live music over a drink or two is Le Trokson. It puts on free concerts several nights a week, leaning towards garage, surf and psychedelic sounds. It\u2019s a nice looking spot, with a vaulted basement room and a convivial atmosphere and is my favourite place in the historic 1st arrondissement, but there\u2019s also Les Capucins, a relaxed bar for a few drinks with friends, and there are regular gigs in its basement. It\u2019s right across the road from a picturesque building used as a Scientology centre. Still on the slopes of the Croix Rousse district, not-for-profit bar La Triperie is the perfect place to catch an underground gig, with old stone walls, parquet flooring, pinball machines and bottled beer, but it\u2019s hard to find out what\u2019s going on there \u2013 you have to look out for posters around town.There\u2019s a similar ambience at Le Caf\u00e9 du Rh\u00f4ne on the river bank (as the name suggests), which is also a good daytime stop for a beer and the dish of the day. At night, head downstairs to the basement for concerts, especially ones promoted by French alternative pop outfit La Souterraine. And don\u2019t forget Kraspek Myzik, an independent record shop by day and concert venue by night; its tiny proportions make every evening unique.Another fine record shop is Dangerhouse, the oldest in Lyon. It\u2019s a treasure trove of garage-rock and 1960s music, its bins overflow with everything from classic albums to unusual finds. Sofa is also very highly regarded, particularly for its African, South American and Asian collection of vinyl. By Guillaume Long, a Geneva-born graphic novel writer, blogger (A boire et \u00e0 manger) and illustratorLyon is known for the great gastronomic tradition of bouchons, traditional taverns of a kind that these days I rarely visit. Most bouchons are pretty poor, and I don\u2019t think they do the city\u2019s image any favours. There are places being opened up by talented young chefs that deserve more attention.There are exceptions to this rule, however. For \u201creal\u201d Lyonnaise cuisine, I\u2019d recommend Le Garet (7 rue du Garet, no website). It\u2019s typical of the city and a bit twee, with its wood panelling, checked tablecloths and suitably gruff owner. You eat packed together in a convivial atmosphere. Another bouchon I like is Daniel et Denise (156 rue de Cr\u00e8qui) in the old town. Its chef is Joseph Viola, winner of a prestigious Meilleur Ouvrier de France award (best craftsman of France) and his cooking is exceptional.The 7th arrondissement, where I live, is flourishing culturally and has lots of informal bistro-type restaurants, which are much more my kind of thing for everyday eating. In the three years I have lived here, I\u2019ve seen the opening of loads of little places that are worth seeking out. There\u2019s Les Pralins (62 rue S\u00e9bastien Gryphe) for Sunday brunch; le Stamtich (44 rue Raulin), where you can eat real flammekueche (a sort of Alsatian pizza) and sumptuous banoffee pie; and Nam Sandwich (12 Place Raspail), where you can get a tasty banh mi Vietnamese sandwich to take away and eat by the Rh\u00f4ne.For something a bit more exotic, try Chez Terra (81 rue Duguesclin) in the 6th arrondissement: it\u2019s a brilliant Japanese restaurant where the menu is short, but everything\u2019s delicious. Then there\u2019s Doshilack (28 rue de Marseilles), in the multicultural Guilloti\u00e8re district, for divine Korean food.For drinks, head for Le Bistrot des Fauves (29 rue Saint Michael), which does good beer. Sit at one of several mismatched tables and enjoy it with a very good plate of cheese and charcuterie. It puts on exhibitions from time to time, there are magazines lying around and the clientele is quite boho.But my true favourite is Le Kitchen Caf\u00e9 (34 rue Chevreul), a stone\u2019s throw from my house. The cooking is Franco-Swedish, all made with locally grown produce. It has old sewing machines as lamp stands and table legs, and is a very popular meeting place. The coffee is good, and I always go for the homemade patisserie: cookies, financiers (almond sponge cakes) and petit fours are all top class, at reasonable prices. Close to the Gare de Lyon-Perrache, Caf\u00e9 Marmot (51 rue de la Charit\u00e9) is also worth a trip. Its cookies are delicious and the atmosphere is friendly. Le Pal\u00e9gri\u00e9 (8 rue du Palais Grillet) is a bit like Le Kitchen Caf\u00e9, with reasonable prices. It\u2019s a simple but very refined little place, where the staff can advise on the choice of excellent wines.By Julie Rodriguez-Malti, co-director of the N\u00e9on art collectiveWhen we started out, there were just three galleries in rue Burdeau in the 1st arrondissement. Today there are 15 or so, thanks to the local authority. When they saw what we were doing, they made it financially attractive for other galleries to set up here, too.I used to love going to the Salle de Bains not-for-profit arts centre up in Croix Rousse. It has been working peripatetically in Lyon\u2019s museums and galleries since it lost the lease on its premises last year. Through it I discovered lots of young artists from around the world. Apart from that, I love the exhibitions put on by Galerie Mathieu, which displays some lovely minimalist pieces. It is a gallery very much of its era \u2013 it was set up in 1979 \u2013 with real character and a taste for geometric abstraction.Lower down in the Croix Rousse quarter is L\u2019Oeil de Beouf, an arts studio that\u2019s very young and eclectic, open just six months of the year. Its backers don\u2019t really communicate much, except on social media, but they organise concerts for each new show. And I often get a nice surpise at the Datta bookshop, which as well as magazines and periodicals, has a small space for showing nice pieces of design, illustration and graphic art.You can also admire the photography of Gilles Vernet at Le Bleu du Ciel. His work has sociological leanings, but is done with lots of panache. And the setting of the gallery is fantastic and has an incredible view over the whole of Lyon.In the 7th arrondissement, there are three places in particular worth seeking out. One is a little shop window affair called Bikini, on rue de la Thibaudi\u00e8re. You can\u2019t go in, except on opening nights; you just look from outside. A little notice goes up each month, telling you about shows and how long they are on for. It can seem frustrating, but it is in fact very generous.On the same street there\u2019s a new gallery called Snap, set up by a sculptor called Paul Raguenes, which has quite big ideas. Its attitude is like that of a Parisian gallery: he\u2019s not afraid of showing large attention-grabbing pieces of work.And finally, while in the area, make time for the Ilot d\u2019Amaranthes garden at the junction of Rue d\u2019Anvers and Rue de la Thibaudi\u00e8re, which was designed by the artist Emmanuel Louisgrand (with support from Galerie Tator). Once a vacant plot between two buildings, it has become a unique community space, with some amazing roses. If I had to move house, I would go to the 7th arrondissement. It has the freshness and vibrancy the Croix Rousse slopes had a few years ago.The most unusual place I know is over towards the \u00cele Barbe, an island in the Sa\u00f4ne in the 9th arrondissement. It\u2019s called L\u2019Attrape-couleurs, and the walk there along the banks of the river is magical. It\u2019s in the annex of a town hall, a big space with parquet floors and a marble fireplace, opposite the famous Jocteur bakery. The artists curate the shows themselves and you can find works you won\u2019t see anywhere else.\u2022 If you\u2019d like to find out more about what\u2019s on at galleries in Lyon check out Adele, which is published by an association of all the contemporary galleries in the cityThere\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Lyon. Here are just a few \u2013 you\u2019ll find more readers\u2019 tips here.Enjoy Lyon by bikeGet yourself lost down cobbled streets and across countless bridges in this extremely bike-friendly city. Take the tour along the quais (the banks of the river Sa\u00f4ne and Rh\u00f4ne), particularly Quai St Vincent (underneath La Croix-Rousse looking up to Lyon\u2019s miniature version of the Eiffel Tower). Cycle all the way along the bank until you get to the tunnel de La Croix-Rousse, a cyclist/pedestrian-only tunnel stretching from east to west built under the bohemian arts district known as Croix Rousse. A surreal ride accompanied by music and dancing animals projected onto the wall. When you reach the other side, cross the bridge towards the Parc de la T\u00eate d\u2019Or, a huge park with a lake, pedalos and even a zoo!Rose LabdonA fine time with food and wineLa Vo\u00fbte Chez L\u00e9a is a great restaurant, similar menu-wise to Lyon\u2019s many bouchons but the standard of cooking was a good few notches above most. La Cave de C\u00e9cile is a great wine bar in an atmospheric setting with a by-the-glass selection that changes daily. Also, try Bernachon, which is a famous chocolate shop and cafe. Tip: the selection in the shop is much the same, and much cheaper, than the neighbouring cafe. Dave StentonThe best beers \u2013 and great burgersLyon is getting more and more of a taste for beer. Several bars dedicated to quality beers have opened these last few years. One of the oldest is the Le Palais de la Bi\u00e8re, with more than 300 beers available. The Ninkasi is a local brewery with several bars around town. The Beers has a friendly atmosphere and is close to the Vieux Lyon. The 405 is close to the town hall and has 40 beers on tap \u2013 and shows rugby matches on widescreen TVs around the bar. Les Fleurs du Malt may be a bit pricey but it stocks rare beers and its bartenders know their job. In summer, there\u2019s an amazing beer garden by the river at the Star Ferry, which has a wide selection of beers from all over the world, and great burgers.GlasnyDiscover the city\u2019s on-trend areasVisit SoBell (South Bellecour), the trendy name for the area south of Place Bellecour and before Perrache train station. Take the metro to Ampere, to where the 2nd arrondissement is shaking down its shabby self with chic new restaurants, such as Comptoire Thomas, and galleries and boutiques (try the Rh\u00f4ne side for late local bars, though it\u2019s a bit prickly around the edges). On the Sa\u00f4ne side you\u2019ll find more tranquil cafes and historic ramparts.LyonLondonStroll, savour and learnWander round the medieval old town (France\u2019s largest, and a Unesco world heritage site). When you do though, give the odd front door a gentle push. If it opens, it may well lead you into one of Lyon\u2019s (once hidden but now famous) traboules, or passageways. Originally used by the city\u2019s merchants as a short-cut to and from the river, the traboules became vital to the city\u2019s resistance movement during the second world war, as they gave resistance fighters who knew the city a means of escape from the Gestapo. The Gestapo headquarters is now the Resistance and Deportation History Centre.James King", "tags": ["Lyon holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture", "Cities"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Lyon, France"},{"date": "2015-07-03T11:25:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French government has rejected an asylum request from Julian Assange, saying he is \u201cnot in immediate danger\u201d while holed up in the Ecuadorian embassy in west London.The WikiLeaks founder wrote an open letter to Fran\u00e7ois Hollande urging the French government to grant him refugee status, even though such a move would offer him no realistic chance of freedom.In a statement issued by the \u00c9lys\u00e9e palace, the president said: \u201cFrance cannot act on his request. The situation of Mr Assange does not present an immediate danger.\u201dAssange could make no practical use of asylum status in France because he would be arrested if he tried to leave the Ecuadorian embassy where he has been residing for more than three years to avoid extradition to Sweden.Swedish prosecutors have been trying since 2010 to question Assange about allegations of rape and sexual molestation. Assange denies the claims. Prominent French figures, including footballer Eric Cantona, and bestselling economist Thomas Piketty, appealed for France to grant Assange haven. But Hollande rejected the plea, pointing out that Assange remained subject to a European arrest warrant.In his letter to the president, published in Le Monde newspaper, Assange described himself as a \u201cjournalist pursued and threatened with death by the United States authorities as a result of my professional activities\u201d. Assange, who turned 44 on Friday, fears extradition to Sweden could lead to him being transferred to the US to face trial over WikiLeaks\u2019 publication of classified US military and diplomatic cables published in the Guardian.Last month, the Swedish prosecutor Marianne Ny cancelled an appointment to interview Assange at the embassy. She said the meeting would have to be called off because she had not received official permission from Ecuador to enter its London headquarters.Lawyers for Assange claimed a victory in March after Ny caved in to pressure from the courts and agreed to break the deadlock in the case by interviewing him in London. Ny\u2019s formal request to interrogate the WikiLeaks founder in the Ecuadorian embassy was the first sign of movement in a case that has been frozen since August 2012.", "tags": ["Julian Assange", "WikiLeaks", "Media", "France", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Europe", "World news", "US news", "European arrest warrant", "Extradition", "Law"], "title": "France rejects Julian Assange's asylum request"},{"date": "2015-09-03T10:45:12Z", "country": "france", "content": "With almost 1,000km of cycle routes and paths, Alsace is a cyclists\u2019 paradise. There are routes for all abilities and bikes, all signposted with great clarity, amid sun-kissed rolling hills and vineyards \u2013 though go prepared for frequent showers. Start at Strasbourg, and head down the flat valleys to the wonderful medieval streets of Colmar, for an easy, scenic start. Bike hire from \u20ac20 at day at Strasbourg\u2019s many youth hostels.Routes and accommodation at alsaceavelo.frfuninfinlandThe Grands Crus wine trail is a scenic 17km loop linking six Alsace winemaking villages. Tackle it on foot or mountain bike for unbeatable views across the vines to the rooftops below, learning a little about the winemaking process from the info boards along the route. Highlights include the half-timbered honeypot of Riquewihr, deservedly one of Les Plus Beaux Villages de France and many opportunities for a d\u00e9gustation in each village. Hunawihr, another of the plus beaux villages is peaceful, with a great lunch spot at Chez Suzel: we had abundant salads on the flower-filled terrace.alsace-wine-route.com, suzel-hunawihr.commarthah The Winstub of H\u00f4tel Le Chambard in Kaysersberg has traditional wooden furniture and red-checked tablecloths, but shares a kitchen with the Michelin-starred 64o restaurant. We also loved the restaurant at Hotel Diette in Fouchy, near Vill\u00e9. It\u2019s not the most picturesque place but the local dishes are a delight. Be sure to start with a unique aperitif called asp\u00e9rule, made of wild flowers and white wine: it tastes like you are drinking a meadow!lechambard.fr, hotel-diette.frcrowsnestMulhouse is a lovely small town an hour and a quarter south of Strasbourg by train. An extensive tram system allowed us to visit outlying attractions including the car and train museums. Staff in shops and restaurants were welcoming and friendly and menu prices were reasonable. We stayed at the Mercure Centre (doubles from \u20ac98 room-only, mercure.com), opposite the station. Trips to Basel and Strasbourg and smaller towns in the region, are easily accomplished by train, which makes Mulhouse an excellent base. tourisme-mulhouse.comMrsSueLa Choucrouterie restaurant-theatre is an authentic slice of Alsace life in a Strasbourg backstreet. Wise-cracking moustachioued waiters weave in and out of the tables serving steaming plates of local cuisine based on cheese, chicken, sausages and potatoes for \u20ac12 including a little jug of wine. The whole place is like an improvised theatre \u2013 learn a few words of Alsace dialect and you\u2019ll get extra food or a discount. They also put on shows, sometimes in dialect, in the theatre at the back.restaurantdelachouc.comTheCapeCruiserThis hotel offers great value and is in a quiet neighbourhood close to a botanical garden. It is also a great base for exploring other areas by foot and train \u2013 the station is a short walk from the hotel. There\u2019s also a beautiful river nearby, for a relaxing stroll, and there\u2019s an affordable Alsatian restaurant round the corner. Doubles from \u20ac82 room-only, hotel-princes.comcool_camperFor a very different day out, head to Schirmeck, some 50km from Strasbourg (accessible by car or by train and shuttle bus), for some sobering 20th-century history. During the second world war, Alsace was annexed by Germany, and the Natzweiler-Struthof concentration camp was opened in 1941. Shrouded by forests, today the camp and museum are well-preserved and information is presented in a thoughtful manner. Nearby is the Alsace-Moselle memorial museum which traces the history of the region from 1870 to the present day, focusing on the annexations that have shaped it. You need at least two hours to visit this impressive museum, whose sights and sounds will fascinate and move you.struthof.fr, memorial-alsace-moselle.comMichelle Anne HarrisonReally good accommodation with friendly and helpful staff plus a most unexpectedly good restaurant make Hotel de la Poste, up in the Vosges mountains, a must if you\u2019re holidaying, or hiking in that part of Alsace. Hotel de la Poste was a revelation on our hike across the ridges of the Vosges from the railway station at Saint-Amarin via Le Grand Ballon to Riquewihr.Doubles from \u20ac84 B&B, +33 3 89 47 51 10, hotel-la-poste.comsimsh47As a year-abroad student, I was given a tour of the Sundgau (an area in southern Alsace close to the borders of Franche-Comt\u00e9, Switzerland and Germany) in exchange for some English lessons. Visit a boulangerie in the morning to pick up some items for a picnic (Alsatian specialities include bretzels, kugelhopf, tarte au fromage blanc...) and head into the Sundgau, to enjoy views of the Jura mountains and thick forests. The medieval village of Ferrette is particularly beautiful, and the ch\u00e2teau offers stunning views to enjoy while tucking into your picnic.sundgau-sudalsace.frMichelle Anne Harrison On a little square, more reminiscent of a village than a nondescript neighbourhood of Strasbourg (La Meinau) sits this bakery that may have the freshest, tastiest pastries to ever pass these lips (and there have been many), whether it be a pain au chocolat, an eclair or a chausson aux pommes (apple turnover but it tastes better in French). It makes a perfect start to the day and you can burn off the calories walking the hills of Alsace or the alleyways of medieval Strasbourg.19 place Jean Mac\u00e9catchytitled", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "French food and drink", "Cycling holidays", "Walking holidays", "City breaks", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Travel"], "title": "The best of Alsace, France: readers\u2019 tips"},{"date": "2015-09-05T06:00:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "Alsace runs west to east from the pine-clad Vosges mountains through some of the most beautiful vineyards in France, to the mighty Rhine river and the border with Germany. Changing hands several times over the centuries between France and Germany has only strengthened the independent character of this fiercely traditional region, where a unique dialect is still the most popular spoken language.I don\u2019t think I have ever travelled through any other part of France where visitors are given such a genuinely warm welcome, both in the vineyards (Alsace is one of the world pioneers of wine tourism) and the mountains, where an outdoor holiday can take in biking, boating, trekking and fishing. The food is out of this world and distinct from other French regions. A foaming beer is just as popular as a glass of wine, and specialities include not just foie gras and escargots but juicy ham hock with steaming choucroute, pike-perch poached in riesling and spicy gingerbread.What to see and doThe region\u2019s capital is Strasbourg, particularly famous for being the seat of several European institutions and its magnificent red sandstone Gothic cathedral, the world\u2019s tallest building between 1647 and 1874, now celebrating its millennium (its first stone was laid in 1015). The interlocking waterways and brightly painted half-timbered houses of La Petite France, the historic leather-tanning district, is a picturesque must-see, but be prepared for crowds of visitors. More offbeat, and quieter, is the Mus\u00e9e Alsacien, an enchanting maze of rooms illustrating Alsace\u2019s unique culture, and the Cave Historique des Hospices de Strasbourg, a 14th-century wine cellar beneath the modern city hospital, which boasts a barrel of the world\u2019s oldest wine, miraculously preserved since 1472. Mulhouse, 100km south of Strasbourg (off the above map), is the region\u2019s second city, best known for its vast transport museums Cit\u00e9 de l\u2019Automobile (hosting the world\u2019s biggest collection of Bugattis among hundreds of vintage and racing cars) and Cit\u00e9 du Train, and is primarily an industrial town. Between the two cities is Colmar, whose ancient centre is criscrossed by romantic lanes and canals. The town is an architectural goldmine of gothic, renaiissance and baroque mansions and churches. Foodies should not miss the ornate covered market.Where to eatMost of Strasbourg\u2019s traditional winstube (winebars) have been transformed into restaurants, the perfect place to sample local specialities. Cross the river Ill, just outside the historic centre, to eat at Au Pont du Corbeau (mains from \u20ac17, 21 Quai Saint-Nicolas, +33 3 8835 6068), whose menu ranges from escargots and homemade goose foie gras to grumbeerekiechle \u2013 tasty potato pancakes with crunchy smoked bacon. In La Petite France, La Maison des Tanneurs (mains from \u20ac22, 42 rue du Bain aux Plantes, +33 3 8832 7970, maison-des-tanneurs.com) serves an unforgettable choucroute, steaming fermented cabbage topped with a vast pig\u2019s knuckle, salted pork and assorted sausages, though vegetarians will be relieved to discover Pur etc (mains from \u20ac7, 122 Grand Rue, +33 9 8378 3879, pur-etc.fr), whose chefs work directly with local farmers. Colmar has plenty of atmospheric winstube, like the waterside Brenner (mains from \u20ac15, 1 rue Turenne, +33 3 8941 4233, wistub-brenner.fr), but the best address to mix with the locals is the opulent Brasserie Le Th\u00e9\u00e2tre (mains from \u20ac18, 1 rue des Bains, +33 3 8929 2929, restaurantletheatre.net).Where to drinkWith Strasbourg\u2019s big student population there are many cheap and cheerful bars. Au Brasseur (22 rue des Veaux, aubrasseur.fr) is a buzzing microbrewery with artisan beers, such as chocolate malt, while Troquet des Kneckes (112 Grand Rue, on Facebook), \u201cthe catapult bar\u201d, has just opened, with flea market sofas and armchairs, free table football and a big selection of Alsace wines. For live music and clubbing, finish the night at Fat Black Pussycat (3 rue Klein, on Facebook). Colmar may be quieter but there is a great atmosphere in the bustling Bistrot des Halles (13 rue des Ecoles), right in the middle of the food market, and for an after-dinner drink, pop into the cosy bar of Schwendi Bier und Winstub (23 Grand Rue).Where to stayThe funkiest place to stay in Strasbourg is Hotel Graffalgar (doubles from \u20ac90, breakfast \u20ac8, graffalgar-hotel-strasbourg.fr), where graffiti artists have decorated each room, ranging from an Escher-like hommage to Stanley Kubrik in room 203 to the psychedelic bordello of 303. Hotel Suisse (doubles from \u20ac87 B&B, hotel-suisse.com) is perfectly placed opposite the cathedral and Room 33 has a view of the towering pink spire. Colmar\u2019s Hotel Le Colombier (doubles from \u20ac126, breakfast \u20ac14, hotel-le-colombier.fr) is a chic boutique property, while the picturesque half-timbered Hotel Saint Martin (doubles from \u20ac95 B&B, hotel-saint-martin.com) offers much more traditional, homely Alsace decor.What to see and doFounded in 1953, this is the oldest wine route in France, stretching over 150 miles (in the shadow of the Vosges, roughly from the west of Mulhouse to the north of Strasbourg) with more than 1,000 vignerons welcoming visitors to their cellars for a free wine tasting. In September and October the tourism offices of villages along the wine route organise half-day excursions for tourists to join in the grape harvest.The Alsace wine villages have a fairytale quality with their brightly painted cottages, medieval ramparts and distinctive stork nests delicately balanced on church spires. The most beautiful \u2013 Riquewihr, Eguisheim, Kaysersberg and Bergheim \u2013 are very popular with visitors over the summer, so autumn\u2019s a good time to visit, but there are plenty of quieter hamlets such as Saint-Hippolyte and Katzenthal waiting to be discovered. For a cultural break from eating and drinking, visit the medieval Haut-Koenigsbourg, an imposing hilltop chateau, or drive up to the mystic Mont Sainte-Odile, a seventh-century abbey which has its own hotel for visitors who want to stay the night (doubles from \u20ac86, breakfast \u20ac9.80, mont-sainte-odile.com). A great stop-off for anyone travelling with kids is the bewitching Gingerbread Museum (paindepices-lips.com), in Gertwiller, where master baker Michel Habsiger has created a museum dedicated to Hansel and Gretel filled with a cornucopia of retro toys. His boutique is a wonderland of gingerbread and paver varieties.Where to eatThere are plenty of Michelin-starred dining rooms, such as Olivier Nasti\u2019s 64\u00b0 Le Restaurant (9-13 rue du General de Gaulle, +33 3 8947 1017, lechambard.fr), but the bill in these splash-out restaurants is usually going to add up to more than \u20ac100 a head. A much better bet is to join the locals in a winstub. Between Strasbourg and Colmar, check out Molseim\u2019s Caveau de la Metzig (mains from \u20ac12, 1 Place de l\u2019H\u00f4tel de Ville, +33 3 8838 2624, restaurant-la-metzig.fr), housed in a 16th-century butcher\u2019s guildhall, or the lively Les Petites Casseroles (mains from \u20ac15, 128 rue du G\u00e9n\u00e9ral Gouraud, +33 3 8804 7021) in the centre of Obernai. Look out for dishes such as flammekuechen, the Alsace take on pizza, a wafer-thin flatbread smothered with creamy fromage blanc and bacon, and baeckeoffe, a slow-baked casserole of lamb, beef and pork. South of the wine route, the sleepy village of Nierdermorschwihr has several great addresses. Among them is Caveau des Chevaliers de Malte (mains from \u20ac12, 127 rue des Trois Epis, +33 3 8927 0978, caveau-chevaliers.fr), perfect for plump escargots in garlicky butter or veal tripe braised in riesling.Where to taste wineChoice is not the problem when it comes to tasting wine, though be prepared for lengthy sessions, as each vigneron will open up a dozen whites \u2013 sylvaner, riesling, gew\u00fcrztraminer, pinot blanc \u2013 the region\u2019s distinctive red, a light pinot noir, and bubbly cr\u00e9mant d\u2019Alsace. A good place to start understanding these complex vintages is one of the big co-operative cellars, like the Cave de Turckheim (cave-turckheim.com), which has unbeatable prices as well as high quality, or just turn up at the vineyards of two historic winemaking families: Maison Emile Beyer (emile-beyer.fr) and Hugel et Fils (hugel.com). Alsace has an outstanding selection of organic, biodynamic and \u201cnatural\u201d, no-sulphite vignerons. Two to track down are Domaine Weinbach (appointment only, + 33 3 8947 1321, domaineweinbach.com), for an incredible pinot gris, or the Domaine Albert Seltz (appointment only, +33 3 8808 9177, albert-seltz.com), where the eponymous, exuberant owner has raised the humble sylvaner grape into an exquisite grand cru.Where to stayThe Route des Vins is lined by friendly, affordable winemaker B&Bs, the perfect places to let vignerons explain their wines over a relaxed tasting. Dambach-la-Ville is a sleepy village off the beaten track and Andr\u00e9 Ruhlmann (doubles \u20ac62 B&B, ruhlmann-schutz.fr) loves to whisk his guests on a tour of vineyards that have been in his family since 1688. Au Canon (doubles from \u20ac45 B&B, aucanon.com) sits by the ancient ramparts and steep vineyards that enclose the hamlet of Andlau. It used to be the local bistrot, but Madame Nicolas has converted it into a cosy B&B, while her son, a creative young chef, prepares gourmet private dinners for guests who book them in advance. Staying at the Butterlin family\u2019s chambres d\u2019h\u00f4te (doubles from \u20ac65 B&B, gites-kientzheim) is like stepping back in time, with ancient cot-like beds in snug wood-panelled rooms. The owners have plenty of suggestions for cellars to visit along the pretty cobbled streets of Kientzheim, where every inhabitant seems to make wine. For travellers preferring the comfort of a hotel, most villages have several old-fashioned auberges, such as Hotel Hassenforder (doubles from \u20ac70, breakfast \u20ac7.50, roger-hassenforder.com), right in the heart of Kaysersberg.What to see and doThe Vosges mountains run through Alsace from the summit of the 1,400-metre Grand Ballon in the south, then north along the hair-raising bends of the Route des Cr\u00eates, the Petit Ballon and Col de la Schlucht \u2013 regularly featuring in stages of the Tour de France \u2013 up to the border with Germany. Here, the crowds that follow the wine route thin out, and the low mountains, lakes, waterfalls and forests are a paradise for walking and biking, hang-gliding, canyoning and horse riding. Then, when the winter snows arrive, this ranks as the best region in France for cross-country skiing. A favourite waterfall to walk to is just outside Le Hohwald, 40 minutes\u2019 drive south-west of Strasbourg, where a sign for \u201cCascades\u201d leads along a thick forest path where the river Andlau cascades down a steep waterfall.Not all the attractions are outdoor, as at Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines there is a breathaking trip down an ancient silver mine, while the Vall\u00e9e de Vill\u00e9 is lined with artisan distilleries that make fruit brandies. At Distillerie Nusbaumer (jos-nusbaumer.com) the tasting room is usually packed \u2013 be sure that someone acts as designated driver. Where to eat and drinkThis is the land of the ferme-auberge where every pine-clad valley has signs directing travellers to working farms with rustic restaurants. Just outside Le Hohwald, the Deissler family raises cows at the Ferme Auberge Lindenhof (mains from \u20ac12, 11 route du Kreutzweg, +33 3 8808 3198, ferme-auberge-lindenhof.fr) and the roadside diner offers delicious dishes such as succulent roast veal with a creamy wild mushroom sauce and Alsatian spaetzle egg pasta.In the region where Munster cheese is produced, the Ferme Auberge Kahlenwasen (mains from \u20ac7, Luttenbach-pr\u00e8s-Munster, +33 3 8977 3249, on Facebook) sits on a 1,000-metre-high plateau across from the Petit Ballon, and Madame Lochert prepares rustic recipes including a wonderful dessert \u2013 fresh, milky Munster floating in home-brewed kirsch. At the village of Soultzeren, a narrow track through thick forest comes out at the breathtaking Ferme Auberge du Lac de Forlet (mains from \u20ac8, Lac des Truites, Soultzeren, +33 3 8977 4922). It overlooks a stark glacial landscape and what locals call \u201ctrout lake\u201d but, rather than fish, it does simple omelettes and cured ham because no one fishes in the lake anymore.Where to stayAuberge du Mehrb\u00e4chel (doubles from \u20ac65, breakfast \u20ac9.50, auberge-mehrbachel.com) is perfect for exploring the nature trails of the Grand Ballon. The chalet-style rooms have cosy rustic decor and the chef\u2019s speciality is locally caught trout.For a more personal stay, Les Arts Verts (doubles \u20ac80 B&B, chambre-les-arts-verts.com) is an arty new B&B by lake Kruth-Wildenstein, where guests can visit the printmaking studio of owner Didier and have access to a sauna. Driving along to the silver mines of Sainte-Marie-aux-Mines, it is impossible to miss the bright yellow facade of Auberge de la Canardi\u00e8re (doubles from \u20ac43, breakfast \u20ac6, auberge-de-la-canardiere.fr). The very reasonably priced rooms are basic, and the chef tempts guests with his homemade terrines and smoked wildboar ham.For total pampering, splash out at the luxurious Hostellerie La Cheneaudi\u00e8re (doubles from \u20ac185 B&B, cheneaudiere.com). A stay includes use of the spa, with a sauna, hammam, water-jet massage and Jacuzzi.\u2022 John Brunton was a guest of Hostellerie La Cheneaudi\u00e8re. Car hire was provided by carrentals.co.uk. More information is available at tourisme-alsace.com and route-des-vins-alsace.com. EasyJet and Ryanair fly direct to Strasbourg from Stansted and Gatwick, with returns from \u00a310. Returns on Eurostar (change at Paris, eurostar.com) from \u00a398.", "tags": ["Strasbourg holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Weekend breaks", "Hotels", "Food and drink", "Wine holidays", "Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Holiday guide to Alsace, France, including Strasbourg"},{"date": "2015-08-24T05:30:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "By Benjamin Mialot, editor-in-chief of culture and leisure guide Le Petit BulletinOften regarded as being like Paris, but on a more human scale, Lyon is unusual among European cities in combining the museums and galleries of a cultural capital with the dynamism of a former industrial hub.France is a world-beater in lots of things (strikes, pretentiousness, kissing) but its towns and cities are also masters at according themselves the title of capital of something, be it a skill, a dish or a pastime.Lyon can boast many such titles: gastronomy capital, silk capital and ancient capital of the Gauls. But it was also the capital of repression when it came to electronic dance music. In the middle of the 1990s, when the rave revolution was at its height, the city did its best to stamp it out, by means ranging from the refusal of late-night licences to calling in the riot police.You won\u2019t find this snippet of local history in any of Lyon\u2019s museums, though. The city has since embraced rave culture as one of its main attractions, and it has never been so easy to burn the candle at both ends \u2013 at 130 beats per minute. The big event is the five-day Nuits Sonores festival each May, which celebrated its 12th birthday this year, but every weekend in Lyon sees dozens of DJs and promoters playing all over the city in dedicated electro clubs (DV1, Terminal, Petit Salon); on river barges (Sirius, Marquise, Sonic); and in big concert venues on the outskirts such as Kao and Transbordeur.One venue in particular epitomises this soaraway success: Le Sucre (see below), in an eyrie on the roof of a former sugar factory that\u2019s now a contemporary arts centre, and run by the team behind Nuits Sonores. It is one of the landmarks of La Confluence, the newly revitalised industrial area on a tongue of land between the rivers Sa\u00f4ne and Rh\u00f4ne, dotted with statement architecture, such as the new Mus\u00e9e des Confluences.La Confluence is part of a feel-good development that included the pedestrianisation of the two river banks and has brought with it an element of gentrification not unlike that happening in Lyon\u2019s 7th arrondissement, to the west. This multicultural and until recently relatively affordable district has seen the city\u2019s trendiest new restaurant openings and its most interesting nightlife (DIY Live Station, Le Caf\u00e9 du Rh\u00f4ne) \u2013 to the point where it is taking over from the former silk manufacturing Croix Rousse district as the city\u2019s most happening area.But all up and coming areas eventually reach a plateau, and it becomes the turn of another district to attract a young crowd. In Lyon it\u2019s now the inner suburbs \u2013 thanks to citizen politics in places like Villeurbanne, and the transformation of the Grrrnd Zero squat at Vaulx-en-Velin into a place of pilgrimage for underground music (see below) \u2013 that must nurture new avant-garde movements.By promoters Paulin Gr\u00e9goire, Matthias Perrette and Kimi Do (who work as Merci Bonsoir)The cultural offering in Lyon is huge. There\u2019s lots of energy: people creating things, and also people organising events, setting up music labels. These projects often prompt established places into upping their game and undertaking big revamps.Our favourite space is probably the March\u00e9 Gare. It holds 300 people, and there\u2019s a Berlin feel to its 1970s public-sector building vibe. The music is indie, in the widest sense. In the same part of La Confluence, Le Sucre has rapidly become Lyon\u2019s big name electro-dance club, hosting internationally known acts.Transbordeur is one of Lyon\u2019s largest venues by capacity, but stands out for its eclectic choice of acts and its indie credentials. It\u2019s in a former factory and has kept its look industrial, with a huge gantry hanging over the bar. It\u2019s at its most fun during Summer Sessions, an outdoor programme with concerts, street art and film screenings in a group of old containers. Then there\u2019s l\u2019Epicerie Moderne, a little further out, which is the Lyon area\u2019s temple to indie music.In a recently decommissioned factory in Vaulx-en-Velin, Grrrnd Zero is the heart of underground Lyon. Its carefully curated programme and dizzying list of events make it a must-do, with building work going on all around you.The best rock music club is still Le Sonic, on a barge moored by the Gare de Perrache. It has low pinkish lighting, red walls and well-chosen acts. You could be lucky enough to find Thurston Moore playing: he says this is his favourite club in Lyon.Another place to hear live music over a drink or two is Le Trokson. It puts on free concerts several nights a week, leaning towards garage, surf and psychedelic sounds. It\u2019s a nice looking spot, with a vaulted basement room and a convivial atmosphere and is my favourite place in the historic 1st arrondissement, but there\u2019s also Les Capucins, a relaxed bar for a few drinks with friends, and there are regular gigs in its basement. It\u2019s right across the road from a picturesque building used as a Scientology centre. Still on the slopes of the Croix Rousse district, not-for-profit bar La Triperie is the perfect place to catch an underground gig, with old stone walls, parquet flooring, pinball machines and bottled beer, but it\u2019s hard to find out what\u2019s going on there \u2013 you have to look out for posters around town.There\u2019s a similar ambience at Le Caf\u00e9 du Rh\u00f4ne on the river bank (as the name suggests), which is also a good daytime stop for a beer and the dish of the day. At night, head downstairs to the basement for concerts, especially ones promoted by French alternative pop outfit La Souterraine. And don\u2019t forget Kraspek Myzik, an independent record shop by day and concert venue by night; its tiny proportions make every evening unique.Another fine record shop is Dangerhouse, the oldest in Lyon. It\u2019s a treasure trove of garage-rock and 1960s music, its bins overflow with everything from classic albums to unusual finds. Sofa is also very highly regarded, particularly for its African, South American and Asian collection of vinyl. By Guillaume Long, a Geneva-born graphic novel writer, blogger (A boire et \u00e0 manger) and illustratorLyon is known for the great gastronomic tradition of bouchons, traditional taverns of a kind that these days I rarely visit. Most bouchons are pretty poor, and I don\u2019t think they do the city\u2019s image any favours. There are places being opened up by talented young chefs that deserve more attention.There are exceptions to this rule, however. For \u201creal\u201d Lyonnaise cuisine, I\u2019d recommend Le Garet (7 rue du Garet, no website). It\u2019s typical of the city and a bit twee, with its wood panelling, checked tablecloths and suitably gruff owner. You eat packed together in a convivial atmosphere. Another bouchon I like is Daniel et Denise (156 rue de Cr\u00e8qui) in the old town. Its chef is Joseph Viola, winner of a prestigious Meilleur Ouvrier de France award (best craftsman of France) and his cooking is exceptional.The 7th arrondissement, where I live, is flourishing culturally and has lots of informal bistro-type restaurants, which are much more my kind of thing for everyday eating. In the three years I have lived here, I\u2019ve seen the opening of loads of little places that are worth seeking out. There\u2019s Les Pralins (62 rue S\u00e9bastien Gryphe) for Sunday brunch; le Stamtich (44 rue Raulin), where you can eat real flammekueche (a sort of Alsatian pizza) and sumptuous banoffee pie; and Nam Sandwich (12 Place Raspail), where you can get a tasty banh mi Vietnamese sandwich to take away and eat by the Rh\u00f4ne.For something a bit more exotic, try Chez Terra (81 rue Duguesclin) in the 6th arrondissement: it\u2019s a brilliant Japanese restaurant where the menu is short, but everything\u2019s delicious. Then there\u2019s Doshilack (28 rue de Marseilles), in the multicultural Guilloti\u00e8re district, for divine Korean food.For drinks, head for Le Bistrot des Fauves (29 rue Saint Michael), which does good beer. Sit at one of several mismatched tables and enjoy it with a very good plate of cheese and charcuterie. It puts on exhibitions from time to time, there are magazines lying around and the clientele is quite boho.But my true favourite is Le Kitchen Caf\u00e9 (34 rue Chevreul), a stone\u2019s throw from my house. The cooking is Franco-Swedish, all made with locally grown produce. It has old sewing machines as lamp stands and table legs, and is a very popular meeting place. The coffee is good, and I always go for the homemade patisserie: cookies, financiers (almond sponge cakes) and petit fours are all top class, at reasonable prices. Close to the Gare de Lyon-Perrache, Caf\u00e9 Marmot (51 rue de la Charit\u00e9) is also worth a trip. Its cookies are delicious and the atmosphere is friendly. Le Pal\u00e9gri\u00e9 (8 rue du Palais Grillet) is a bit like Le Kitchen Caf\u00e9, with reasonable prices. It\u2019s a simple but very refined little place, where the staff can advise on the choice of excellent wines.By Julie Rodriguez-Malti, co-director of the N\u00e9on art collectiveWhen we started out, there were just three galleries in rue Burdeau in the 1st arrondissement. Today there are 15 or so, thanks to the local authority. When they saw what we were doing, they made it financially attractive for other galleries to set up here, too.I used to love going to the Salle de Bains not-for-profit arts centre up in Croix Rousse. It has been working peripatetically in Lyon\u2019s museums and galleries since it lost the lease on its premises last year. Through it I discovered lots of young artists from around the world. Apart from that, I love the exhibitions put on by Galerie Mathieu, which displays some lovely minimalist pieces. It is a gallery very much of its era \u2013 it was set up in 1979 \u2013 with real character and a taste for geometric abstraction.Lower down in the Croix Rousse quarter is L\u2019Oeil de Beouf, an arts studio that\u2019s very young and eclectic, open just six months of the year. Its backers don\u2019t really communicate much, except on social media, but they organise concerts for each new show. And I often get a nice surpise at the Datta bookshop, which as well as magazines and periodicals, has a small space for showing nice pieces of design, illustration and graphic art.You can also admire the photography of Gilles Vernet at Le Bleu du Ciel. His work has sociological leanings, but is done with lots of panache. And the setting of the gallery is fantastic and has an incredible view over the whole of Lyon.In the 7th arrondissement, there are three places in particular worth seeking out. One is a little shop window affair called Bikini, on rue de la Thibaudi\u00e8re. You can\u2019t go in, except on opening nights; you just look from outside. A little notice goes up each month, telling you about shows and how long they are on for. It can seem frustrating, but it is in fact very generous.On the same street there\u2019s a new gallery called Snap, set up by a sculptor called Paul Raguenes, which has quite big ideas. Its attitude is like that of a Parisian gallery: he\u2019s not afraid of showing large attention-grabbing pieces of work.And finally, while in the area, make time for the Ilot d\u2019Amaranthes garden at the junction of Rue d\u2019Anvers and Rue de la Thibaudi\u00e8re, which was designed by the artist Emmanuel Louisgrand (with support from Galerie Tator). Once a vacant plot between two buildings, it has become a unique community space, with some amazing roses. If I had to move house, I would go to the 7th arrondissement. It has the freshness and vibrancy the Croix Rousse slopes had a few years ago.The most unusual place I know is over towards the \u00cele Barbe, an island in the Sa\u00f4ne in the 9th arrondissement. It\u2019s called L\u2019Attrape-couleurs, and the walk there along the banks of the river is magical. It\u2019s in the annex of a town hall, a big space with parquet floors and a marble fireplace, opposite the famous Jocteur bakery. The artists curate the shows themselves and you can find works you won\u2019t see anywhere else.\u2022 If you\u2019d like to find out more about what\u2019s on at galleries in Lyon check out Adele, which is published by an association of all the contemporary galleries in the cityThere\u2019s no better guide to a city than word-of-mouth recommendations \u2013 from people who live there and people who have visited. We asked our readers to share their favourite experiences and Instagram pictures of Lyon. Here are just a few \u2013 you\u2019ll find more readers\u2019 tips here.Enjoy Lyon by bikeGet yourself lost down cobbled streets and across countless bridges in this extremely bike-friendly city. Take the tour along the quais (the banks of the river Sa\u00f4ne and Rh\u00f4ne), particularly Quai St Vincent (underneath La Croix-Rousse looking up to Lyon\u2019s miniature version of the Eiffel Tower). Cycle all the way along the bank until you get to the tunnel de La Croix-Rousse, a cyclist/pedestrian-only tunnel stretching from east to west built under the bohemian arts district known as Croix Rousse. A surreal ride accompanied by music and dancing animals projected onto the wall. When you reach the other side, cross the bridge towards the Parc de la T\u00eate d\u2019Or, a huge park with a lake, pedalos and even a zoo!Rose LabdonA fine time with food and wineLa Vo\u00fbte Chez L\u00e9a is a great restaurant, similar menu-wise to Lyon\u2019s many bouchons but the standard of cooking was a good few notches above most. La Cave de C\u00e9cile is a great wine bar in an atmospheric setting with a by-the-glass selection that changes daily. Also, try Bernachon, which is a famous chocolate shop and cafe. Tip: the selection in the shop is much the same, and much cheaper, than the neighbouring cafe. Dave StentonThe best beers \u2013 and great burgersLyon is getting more and more of a taste for beer. Several bars dedicated to quality beers have opened these last few years. One of the oldest is the Le Palais de la Bi\u00e8re, with more than 300 beers available. The Ninkasi is a local brewery with several bars around town. The Beers has a friendly atmosphere and is close to the Vieux Lyon. The 405 is close to the town hall and has 40 beers on tap \u2013 and shows rugby matches on widescreen TVs around the bar. Les Fleurs du Malt may be a bit pricey but it stocks rare beers and its bartenders know their job. In summer, there\u2019s an amazing beer garden by the river at the Star Ferry, which has a wide selection of beers from all over the world, and great burgers.GlasnyDiscover the city\u2019s on-trend areasVisit SoBell (South Bellecour), the trendy name for the area south of Place Bellecour and before Perrache train station. Take the metro to Ampere, to where the 2nd arrondissement is shaking down its shabby self with chic new restaurants, such as Comptoire Thomas, and galleries and boutiques (try the Rh\u00f4ne side for late local bars, though it\u2019s a bit prickly around the edges). On the Sa\u00f4ne side you\u2019ll find more tranquil cafes and historic ramparts.LyonLondonStroll, savour and learnWander round the medieval old town (France\u2019s largest, and a Unesco world heritage site). When you do though, give the odd front door a gentle push. If it opens, it may well lead you into one of Lyon\u2019s (once hidden but now famous) traboules, or passageways. Originally used by the city\u2019s merchants as a short-cut to and from the river, the traboules became vital to the city\u2019s resistance movement during the second world war, as they gave resistance fighters who knew the city a means of escape from the Gestapo. The Gestapo headquarters is now the Resistance and Deportation History Centre.James King", "tags": ["Lyon holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Weekend breaks", "Food and drink", "Food & drink", "Art and design", "Culture", "Cities"], "title": "The alternative city guide to Lyon, France"},{"date": "2015-07-03T11:25:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "The French government has rejected an asylum request from Julian Assange, saying he is \u201cnot in immediate danger\u201d while holed up in the Ecuadorian embassy in west London.The WikiLeaks founder wrote an open letter to Fran\u00e7ois Hollande urging the French government to grant him refugee status, even though such a move would offer him no realistic chance of freedom.In a statement issued by the \u00c9lys\u00e9e palace, the president said: \u201cFrance cannot act on his request. The situation of Mr Assange does not present an immediate danger.\u201dAssange could make no practical use of asylum status in France because he would be arrested if he tried to leave the Ecuadorian embassy where he has been residing for more than three years to avoid extradition to Sweden.Swedish prosecutors have been trying since 2010 to question Assange about allegations of rape and sexual molestation. Assange denies the claims. Prominent French figures, including footballer Eric Cantona, and bestselling economist Thomas Piketty, appealed for France to grant Assange haven. But Hollande rejected the plea, pointing out that Assange remained subject to a European arrest warrant.In his letter to the president, published in Le Monde newspaper, Assange described himself as a \u201cjournalist pursued and threatened with death by the United States authorities as a result of my professional activities\u201d. Assange, who turned 44 on Friday, fears extradition to Sweden could lead to him being transferred to the US to face trial over WikiLeaks\u2019 publication of classified US military and diplomatic cables published in the Guardian.Last month, the Swedish prosecutor Marianne Ny cancelled an appointment to interview Assange at the embassy. She said the meeting would have to be called off because she had not received official permission from Ecuador to enter its London headquarters.Lawyers for Assange claimed a victory in March after Ny caved in to pressure from the courts and agreed to break the deadlock in the case by interviewing him in London. Ny\u2019s formal request to interrogate the WikiLeaks founder in the Ecuadorian embassy was the first sign of movement in a case that has been frozen since August 2012.", "tags": ["Julian Assange", "WikiLeaks", "Media", "France", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Europe", "World news", "US news", "European arrest warrant", "Extradition", "Law"], "title": "France rejects Julian Assange's asylum request"},{"date": "2015-09-27T15:09:38Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has carried out its first airstrikes against Islamic State (Isis) in Syria after nearly three weeks of surveillance flights.The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, said the operation to \u201cfight the terrorist threat\u201d was coordinated with partners in the region.\u201cFrance struck in Syria this morning an Islamic State training camp which threatened the security of our country,\u201d he told reporters at the United Nations, adding that six French jets had struck the Isis camp and warned of more strikes in coming weeks.The targets were identified during surveillance missions conducted by French jets since 8 September.The French government has insisted that although it is part of the US-led coalition, France will decide who and what to attack independently.The airstrikes mark a turnaround in the French approach to the Syrian civil war. The president\u2019s office said: \u201cWe will strike any time our national security is at stake.\u201dHollande announced earlier this month that France would carry out surveillance with a view to eventual airstrikes against Isis, citing self-defence as his rationale. The decision came as the refugee crisis and the photo of drowned three-year-old Alan Kurdi sparked shock across the world. But France\u2019s decision was influenced more by last month\u2019s foiled attack by a suspected jihadi gunman who opened fire on a packed Amsterdam-Paris train.As France faces what the government says is a high-level terrorist threat on home soil, and is still coming to term with January\u2019s terrorist attacks by gunmen, who left 17 dead after targeting the satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo and a Paris kosher supermarket, the president has sought to send an important message to his electorate that France would be ready to strike back if there was any terrorist attempt on France.The surveillance operation in Syria over the past weeks has been described by the government as targeting those who could be planning terrorist attacks on France.The move to airstrikes shows how France\u2019s strategy on Syria has evolved. Until now, France had been launching airstrikes on Isis extremists only in Iraq as part of the US-led coalition, and had resisted airstrikes in Syria because it did not want to be seen to be strengthening President Bashar al-Assad\u2019s hold on the country.France, the former colonial power after the Ottoman Empire broke up, has been one of the most outspoken western powers on Syria from the start of the crisis. Two years ago France was pushing for military action against Assad, resolving to punish Damascus over its use of chemical weapons on the Syrian people, but that move faltered without an international coalition of support.This month the French president ruled out sending ground troops to Syria and said nothing should be done that could strengthen Assad or help him remain in power. \u201cIn the end, Assad must go,\u201d Hollande said.In his statement on Sunday, Hollande said: \u201cCivilian populations must be protected from all forms of violence, that of IS [Islamic State] and other terrorist groups but also the murderous bombardments of Bashar Assad.\u201dPolls show that a majority of the French public favours military action in Syria. But at the French foreign ministry the emphasis is on politics and diplomacy as the only possible solution to the crisis.The announcement of operations in Syria came the day before Hollande joins world leaders for the start of the UN general assembly in New York, where the four-year Syrian war is expected to be at the centre of debate.Iran and Russia have given strong backing to Assad, who is regarded by the US and European countries including France as the instigator of the civil war, which has left an estimated 125,000 to 330,000 people dead and large parts of his country in the hands of Isis. Russia, meanwhile, has alarmed the west by strengthening its military presence in Syria in recent weeks.On Saturday the US secretary of state, John Kerry, met his Iranian counterpart, Mohammad Javad Zarif, to discuss Syria. Washington refuses to accept a peace process that would leave Assad in power and so has backed and armed small \u201cmoderate\u201d rebel groups. But that strategy appeared to be in tatters after the Pentagon admitted that the latest US-trained fighters to cross into Syria had given a quarter of their equipment to al-Qaida.", "tags": ["France", "Syria", "Islamic State", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Charlie Hebdo attack"], "title": "France launches first airstrikes against Isis in Syria"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:17:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has banned the import of lion heads, paws and skins as hunters\u2019 trophies, nearly four months after the killing of Zimbabwe\u2019s most famous lion by an American trophy hunter sparked international outrage.In a letter to the actor and animals rights activist Brigitte Bardot, France\u2019s environment minister, S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, said that she had instructed officials to stop issuing permits for lion trophies and was considering stricter controls on trophies from other species.\u201cFollowing your letter and recent visits in Africa in preparation of the climate summit in Paris, I want to let you know I have given orders to my services to stop delivering certificates for importing lion trophies,\u201d Royal wrote in the letter dated 12 November.\u201cConcerning other species trophies, I am in favour of a much stronger control for hunting trophies and this issue will be discussed with all the countries concerned and with the EU.\u201dIn July, conservationists and MEPs called for an EU-wide ban on the import of lion trophies following the death of Cecil the lion at the hands of a Minnesotan dentist near one of Zimbabwe\u2019s national parks. France is the first EU state to implement such a ban. In March, Australia also banned their import.Between 2010 and the 2013, the last year for which data is available, more than 100 such lion trophies were imported to France. Lionaid, a UK-based charity that is calling for the UK to follow suit with a ban on lion trophy imports, said it was \u201coverjoyed\u201d by the move. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWithin the EU, France was a major importer of such trophies and we expect that wild lions will now find themselves safer without the presence of French trophy hunters.\u201cWe trust that France\u2019s decision will create a domino effect within the EU and that we will soon hear about other member states joining together to say no [to trophies].\u201dCatherine Bearder, a Liberal Democrat MEP who led calls for a ban in the summer, said was \u201cdelighted\u201d by France\u2019s decision and the UK should follow its lead.The EU\u2019s scientific review group, which decides whether or not to blacklist trophy imports based on the sustainability of species, met in September and approved the continued import of lion trophies from Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique.Last month, scientists warned that lion numbers in central and western Africa are likely to halve in the next two decades due to loss of habitat and prey.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Cecil the lion", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Endangered species", "Animals", "Conservation"], "title": "France bans imports of lion hunt trophies"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:17:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has banned the import of lion heads, paws and skins as hunters\u2019 trophies, nearly four months after the killing of Zimbabwe\u2019s most famous lion by an American trophy hunter sparked international outrage.In a letter to the actor and animals rights activist Brigitte Bardot, France\u2019s environment minister, S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, said that she had instructed officials to stop issuing permits for lion trophies and was considering stricter controls on trophies from other species.\u201cFollowing your letter and recent visits in Africa in preparation of the climate summit in Paris, I want to let you know I have given orders to my services to stop delivering certificates for importing lion trophies,\u201d Royal wrote in the letter dated 12 November.\u201cConcerning other species trophies, I am in favour of a much stronger control for hunting trophies and this issue will be discussed with all the countries concerned and with the EU.\u201dIn July, conservationists and MEPs called for an EU-wide ban on the import of lion trophies following the death of Cecil the lion at the hands of a Minnesotan dentist near one of Zimbabwe\u2019s national parks. France is the first EU state to implement such a ban. In March, Australia also banned their import.Between 2010 and the 2013, the last year for which data is available, more than 100 such lion trophies were imported to France. Lionaid, a UK-based charity that is calling for the UK to follow suit with a ban on lion trophy imports, said it was \u201coverjoyed\u201d by the move. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWithin the EU, France was a major importer of such trophies and we expect that wild lions will now find themselves safer without the presence of French trophy hunters.\u201cWe trust that France\u2019s decision will create a domino effect within the EU and that we will soon hear about other member states joining together to say no [to trophies].\u201dCatherine Bearder, a Liberal Democrat MEP who led calls for a ban in the summer, said was \u201cdelighted\u201d by France\u2019s decision and the UK should follow its lead.The EU\u2019s scientific review group, which decides whether or not to blacklist trophy imports based on the sustainability of species, met in September and approved the continued import of lion trophies from Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique.Last month, scientists warned that lion numbers in central and western Africa are likely to halve in the next two decades due to loss of habitat and prey.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Cecil the lion", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Endangered species", "Animals", "Conservation"], "title": "France bans imports of lion hunt trophies"},{"date": "2015-10-18T23:50:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has launched an unprecedented diplomatic drive to shepherd nations big and small towards a major climate change deal, ahead of a Paris summit next month that is the next major make-or-break moment for the movement against global warming.Every one of France\u2019s ambassadors, in embassies and consulates around the globe, has been educated on the demands of climate change, and instructed in how to communicate the messages to the governments they deal with, ahead of the summit, which starts on 30 November.Ambassadors have been holding public events, private meetings, talks with their diplomatic counterparts, businesses, NGOs and even schoolchildren. At home, the outer walls of the foreign ministry, a stately 19th-century edifice on the banks of the Seine, are covered in a series of banners declaring, in several languages, the messages of Paris Climat 2015. Even the Eiffel Tower, further down the riverbank, has been pressed into service, lit up at night with climate slogans.Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the president of France, has been visiting world leaders for the past year, urging them to come to Paris. Laurent Fabius, foreign minister, who will be in charge of the talks, has made it his mission, with a punishing schedule of events and public speaking. S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, environment minister and co-host, has also been touring capitals and conferences. Related: Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks Climate diplomacy has never seen such a concerted push.\u201cIt\u2019s a top priority for our diplomacy. All our ambassadors are fully mobilised, all around the world,\u201d Sylvie Bermann, the French ambassador to the UK, told the Guardian. She has hosted a series of public seminars and events in the UK, with one forthcoming on climate change and refugees. The embassy itself has also taken on the green message, with her new official car a hybrid Peugeot 508 \u2013 a French manufacturer, of course.Even in countries such as India and Poland where, Bermann said \u201cthere might be more fisticuffs\u201d over climate change, the embassies have been engaging governments, and in China, where she was posted before coming to London \u2013 she is a fluent Chinese speaker \u2013 she notes a major push involving government and NGOs. Care has been taken to involve public opinion, too: there has even been a boat, the research vessel Tara, sponsored by the French fashion brand Agn\u00e8s B, that has toured the US, London, Scandinavia and other regions before coming home to France.A special ambassador has been appointed, Laurence Tubiana, who has also embarked on a whirlwind tour of capitals and dignitaries. With three months to go before the conference, France\u2019s ambassadors were lectured by Ban Ki-moon, UN secretary-general, who also has a big stake in the success of Paris, having presided over the previous conference in Copenhagen in 2009 that was widely derided as a failure, as it collapsed into scenes of chaos in the final hours.\u201cFor Hollande\u2019s administration, this is not just about the climate: it is about the government\u2019s political survival,\u201d one prominent global official told the Guardian. \u201cThey need this to be a success, to have something to celebrate, as they\u2019re in trouble in so many other areas of politics.\u201dAt the two-week summit, governments will meet under the auspices of the United Nations in the first attempt for six years to forge a new global agreement on climate change. COP21, as it is known in the jargon, is seen as a make-or-break conference, the last chance for the two-decades-old UN process to bring nations together to tackle what many scientists regard as the biggest single threat to humanity.This week, governments will gather in Bonn for the last chance before the Paris conference to amend the text of the potential agreement. Previous such meetings have produced little progress, however.For Hollande, whose low poll ratings have seen him become the most unpopular French president on record, securing a climate change deal is crucial for his reputation at home. France, marked by high unemployment and economic sluggishness, will go to the polls in regional elections while the climate talks are wrapping up in December, in two rounds on 6 and 13 December. Hollande, who still hopes to run for the presidency in 2017, will seek to use any successful deal to boost his standing.Will the climate diplomacy succeed? Elements of an agreement are slowly falling into place. Most countries, including all the biggest economies, have now submitted plans on their emissions to come into force after 2020, when current commitments expire. The US and China, the two biggest emitters, made a joint announcement on their emissions, for the first time, in a marked show of unity.But there is still no guarantee of success, and France has tried hard to learn the lessons of Copenhagen. Although a \u201cpolitical declaration\u201d was signed at that summit in 2009, with major developed and developing countries jointly agreeing emissions targets for the first time, it did not amount to the formal treaty that many had hoped for. That omission, and scenes in which delegates burst into tears, appeared to show world leaders did not know what was going on, and bitter public recriminations showed off all the fault lines among nations, allowed detractors to claim it as a resounding failure.Many things will be different this time, Tubiana has promised. For instance, at Copenhagen the text of a potential deal was in tatters, too unwieldy to produce a formal treaty. The text for Paris has been slimmed down to just over 20 pages, in a move the hosts hope will make it possible to sign it off in the two weeks of talks. World leaders, who arrived only at the end of Copenhagen, will land in Paris for the first day of talks, then hand over to their ministers and negotiators.Another key question is over financial assistance from richer to poorer countries. At Copenhagen, the developing world was promised $100bn (\u00a365bn) a year would flow to them by 2020. Significant progress has been made on this, not least at the World Bank meeting last week, where its president announced a $29bn increase in climate finance.French diplomats have also been at pains to include civil society groups and businesses at a high level. Civil society groups were excluded from the final fraught day at Copenhagen, to their manifest disgust, which did not help how that conference was portrayed afterwards.\u201cThe French have done an excellent job,\u201d says Christiana Figueres, the UN\u2019s climate chief, who has also been persuading world leaders to participate. \u201cThey have made a great effort.\u201dMost of the world\u2019s biggest economies have now publicly declared they want a deal. However, at the UN talks, small and desperately poor countries have just as much say as the richest. They may not be so happy to oblige.\u201cThe biggest problem with Paris is that it is in Paris,\u201d one prominent participant told the Guardian privately, meaning that holding such a major meeting in a G7 country risks alienating poor nations, who often feel that their interests are overlooked in the race to get big economies to commit.The French can hardly help the location, and appear conscious of the need to draw in a broader coalition, sometimes using their historic ties to the French-speaking and French-influenced countries of Africa and Asia \u2013 a strategy that could backfire, given the colonial overtones. But the charm offensive continued with President Hollande visiting Morocco recently. \u201cWe have a close cooperation with the Moroccans,\u201d says Bermann. \u201cI know there have been some problems but now cooperation is excellent so we\u2019re keen to work with them.\u201dIf Paris succeeds, it will not be down only to the French government and its troupes of ministers, civil servants, ambassadors and negotiators. But if it fails, the French and the UN know they will cop the blame.Additional reporting by Angelique Chrisafis in Paris", "tags": ["Global climate talks", "France", "Environment", "Climate change", "World news", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Europe", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "France launches global drive for climate deal"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:17:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has banned the import of lion heads, paws and skins as hunters\u2019 trophies, nearly four months after the killing of Zimbabwe\u2019s most famous lion by an American trophy hunter sparked international outrage.In a letter to the actor and animals rights activist Brigitte Bardot, France\u2019s environment minister, S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, said that she had instructed officials to stop issuing permits for lion trophies and was considering stricter controls on trophies from other species.\u201cFollowing your letter and recent visits in Africa in preparation of the climate summit in Paris, I want to let you know I have given orders to my services to stop delivering certificates for importing lion trophies,\u201d Royal wrote in the letter dated 12 November.\u201cConcerning other species trophies, I am in favour of a much stronger control for hunting trophies and this issue will be discussed with all the countries concerned and with the EU.\u201dIn July, conservationists and MEPs called for an EU-wide ban on the import of lion trophies following the death of Cecil the lion at the hands of a Minnesotan dentist near one of Zimbabwe\u2019s national parks. France is the first EU state to implement such a ban. In March, Australia also banned their import.Between 2010 and the 2013, the last year for which data is available, more than 100 such lion trophies were imported to France. Lionaid, a UK-based charity that is calling for the UK to follow suit with a ban on lion trophy imports, said it was \u201coverjoyed\u201d by the move. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWithin the EU, France was a major importer of such trophies and we expect that wild lions will now find themselves safer without the presence of French trophy hunters.\u201cWe trust that France\u2019s decision will create a domino effect within the EU and that we will soon hear about other member states joining together to say no [to trophies].\u201dCatherine Bearder, a Liberal Democrat MEP who led calls for a ban in the summer, said was \u201cdelighted\u201d by France\u2019s decision and the UK should follow its lead.The EU\u2019s scientific review group, which decides whether or not to blacklist trophy imports based on the sustainability of species, met in September and approved the continued import of lion trophies from Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique.Last month, scientists warned that lion numbers in central and western Africa are likely to halve in the next two decades due to loss of habitat and prey.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Cecil the lion", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Endangered species", "Animals", "Conservation"], "title": "France bans imports of lion hunt trophies"},{"date": "2015-10-18T23:50:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has launched an unprecedented diplomatic drive to shepherd nations big and small towards a major climate change deal, ahead of a Paris summit next month that is the next major make-or-break moment for the movement against global warming.Every one of France\u2019s ambassadors, in embassies and consulates around the globe, has been educated on the demands of climate change, and instructed in how to communicate the messages to the governments they deal with, ahead of the summit, which starts on 30 November.Ambassadors have been holding public events, private meetings, talks with their diplomatic counterparts, businesses, NGOs and even schoolchildren. At home, the outer walls of the foreign ministry, a stately 19th-century edifice on the banks of the Seine, are covered in a series of banners declaring, in several languages, the messages of Paris Climat 2015. Even the Eiffel Tower, further down the riverbank, has been pressed into service, lit up at night with climate slogans.Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the president of France, has been visiting world leaders for the past year, urging them to come to Paris. Laurent Fabius, foreign minister, who will be in charge of the talks, has made it his mission, with a punishing schedule of events and public speaking. S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, environment minister and co-host, has also been touring capitals and conferences. Related: Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks Climate diplomacy has never seen such a concerted push.\u201cIt\u2019s a top priority for our diplomacy. All our ambassadors are fully mobilised, all around the world,\u201d Sylvie Bermann, the French ambassador to the UK, told the Guardian. She has hosted a series of public seminars and events in the UK, with one forthcoming on climate change and refugees. The embassy itself has also taken on the green message, with her new official car a hybrid Peugeot 508 \u2013 a French manufacturer, of course.Even in countries such as India and Poland where, Bermann said \u201cthere might be more fisticuffs\u201d over climate change, the embassies have been engaging governments, and in China, where she was posted before coming to London \u2013 she is a fluent Chinese speaker \u2013 she notes a major push involving government and NGOs. Care has been taken to involve public opinion, too: there has even been a boat, the research vessel Tara, sponsored by the French fashion brand Agn\u00e8s B, that has toured the US, London, Scandinavia and other regions before coming home to France.A special ambassador has been appointed, Laurence Tubiana, who has also embarked on a whirlwind tour of capitals and dignitaries. With three months to go before the conference, France\u2019s ambassadors were lectured by Ban Ki-moon, UN secretary-general, who also has a big stake in the success of Paris, having presided over the previous conference in Copenhagen in 2009 that was widely derided as a failure, as it collapsed into scenes of chaos in the final hours.\u201cFor Hollande\u2019s administration, this is not just about the climate: it is about the government\u2019s political survival,\u201d one prominent global official told the Guardian. \u201cThey need this to be a success, to have something to celebrate, as they\u2019re in trouble in so many other areas of politics.\u201dAt the two-week summit, governments will meet under the auspices of the United Nations in the first attempt for six years to forge a new global agreement on climate change. COP21, as it is known in the jargon, is seen as a make-or-break conference, the last chance for the two-decades-old UN process to bring nations together to tackle what many scientists regard as the biggest single threat to humanity.This week, governments will gather in Bonn for the last chance before the Paris conference to amend the text of the potential agreement. Previous such meetings have produced little progress, however.For Hollande, whose low poll ratings have seen him become the most unpopular French president on record, securing a climate change deal is crucial for his reputation at home. France, marked by high unemployment and economic sluggishness, will go to the polls in regional elections while the climate talks are wrapping up in December, in two rounds on 6 and 13 December. Hollande, who still hopes to run for the presidency in 2017, will seek to use any successful deal to boost his standing.Will the climate diplomacy succeed? Elements of an agreement are slowly falling into place. Most countries, including all the biggest economies, have now submitted plans on their emissions to come into force after 2020, when current commitments expire. The US and China, the two biggest emitters, made a joint announcement on their emissions, for the first time, in a marked show of unity.But there is still no guarantee of success, and France has tried hard to learn the lessons of Copenhagen. Although a \u201cpolitical declaration\u201d was signed at that summit in 2009, with major developed and developing countries jointly agreeing emissions targets for the first time, it did not amount to the formal treaty that many had hoped for. That omission, and scenes in which delegates burst into tears, appeared to show world leaders did not know what was going on, and bitter public recriminations showed off all the fault lines among nations, allowed detractors to claim it as a resounding failure.Many things will be different this time, Tubiana has promised. For instance, at Copenhagen the text of a potential deal was in tatters, too unwieldy to produce a formal treaty. The text for Paris has been slimmed down to just over 20 pages, in a move the hosts hope will make it possible to sign it off in the two weeks of talks. World leaders, who arrived only at the end of Copenhagen, will land in Paris for the first day of talks, then hand over to their ministers and negotiators.Another key question is over financial assistance from richer to poorer countries. At Copenhagen, the developing world was promised $100bn (\u00a365bn) a year would flow to them by 2020. Significant progress has been made on this, not least at the World Bank meeting last week, where its president announced a $29bn increase in climate finance.French diplomats have also been at pains to include civil society groups and businesses at a high level. Civil society groups were excluded from the final fraught day at Copenhagen, to their manifest disgust, which did not help how that conference was portrayed afterwards.\u201cThe French have done an excellent job,\u201d says Christiana Figueres, the UN\u2019s climate chief, who has also been persuading world leaders to participate. \u201cThey have made a great effort.\u201dMost of the world\u2019s biggest economies have now publicly declared they want a deal. However, at the UN talks, small and desperately poor countries have just as much say as the richest. They may not be so happy to oblige.\u201cThe biggest problem with Paris is that it is in Paris,\u201d one prominent participant told the Guardian privately, meaning that holding such a major meeting in a G7 country risks alienating poor nations, who often feel that their interests are overlooked in the race to get big economies to commit.The French can hardly help the location, and appear conscious of the need to draw in a broader coalition, sometimes using their historic ties to the French-speaking and French-influenced countries of Africa and Asia \u2013 a strategy that could backfire, given the colonial overtones. But the charm offensive continued with President Hollande visiting Morocco recently. \u201cWe have a close cooperation with the Moroccans,\u201d says Bermann. \u201cI know there have been some problems but now cooperation is excellent so we\u2019re keen to work with them.\u201dIf Paris succeeds, it will not be down only to the French government and its troupes of ministers, civil servants, ambassadors and negotiators. But if it fails, the French and the UN know they will cop the blame.Additional reporting by Angelique Chrisafis in Paris", "tags": ["Global climate talks", "France", "Environment", "Climate change", "World news", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Europe", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "France launches global drive for climate deal"},{"date": "2015-10-09T10:27:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "Although born and bred in Yorkshire, I\u2019ve been snowboarding for almost 20 years and moved to the Portes du Soleil just over a year ago. Spread over 14 valleys between Mont Blanc and Lake Geneva, it\u2019s one of the world\u2019s largest ski areas and a great place to live. I chose Morzine because we used to train in the halfpipe there and I made friends and contacts who started businesses and made lives here.The Mutzig Challenge at Bar Robinson is one of several urban myths (or true stories) about what people get up to here. Mutzig is a 5.5% beer best enjoyed in halves, but the challenge is to drink 10 pints. Not many people have walked away from this feat \u2013 at least not in a straight line.Triathalons are bad enough in the UK, but in the \u201cMorzine to Chamonix triathlon of discomfort\u201d the swim is done in a melt-water lake and the run and cycle are through the Alps.One of my favourite runs is the Satellite \u2013 an easy hike and a mellow off-piste run. In such a large ski resort, there\u2019s a lot for everyone, from beginners to advanced skiers and snowboarders, and a lot of snow miles to be had. And you can ski or snowboard down the streets of Avoriaz in the winter. Related: Splitboarding in Chamonix: fresh terrain for grown-up snowboarders Avoriaz and Morzine get very busy during school holidays. They\u2019re on the French side of the lake, and easy to get to: a 90-minute drive from Geneva airport and one of the shortest drives from the UK. So I\u2019d buy a full-area pass and take on the whole circuit, which fills a day and takes you far from the crowds. Champ\u00e9ry, over the border in Switzerland, is much quieter, and feasible as a family day trip on the lifts.The \u201changover reset\u201d is the best reason to visit the mountains \u2013 aside from the fresh air and scenery. So long as you are able to get up and out, the cold air in your face on the first run of the day blows the cobwebs away and means you skip that hangover. Better than sweating it out on a beach in 30C.The Nico Droz road gap is a terrifying \u201cleap of faith\u201d snowboard jump. You jump off a 30ft-high platform and over a piste, landing on the other side and riding out over frozen Lake Avoriaz. First taken on by legendary French rider Nico Droz, and attempted by few others since then, the jump is easily seen from around the resort and looks a hell of a lot bigger in real life than it does on video.The heated terrace and wide beer selection at La Marmotte D\u2019Or make it perfect for enjoying the last rays of sun after a hard day on the hill. It often has live music and I\u2019ve been known to spin a few tunes there myself. In the winter, I DJ with my friend on Tuesdays at Op\u00e9ra, one of two clubs in Morzine.British people get a bit wild on their holidays. Last season\u2019s Rock the Pistes festival up on the mountain, featured Babyshambles and the Klaxons. Everyone got hammered in the afternoon and after the festival, everyone rode down. Even the bands borrowed skis and went down in jeans.For dinner, I\u2019d recommend an \u201call-you-can-eat meat treat\u201d at L\u2019Etale in the middle of Morzine. The restaurant is Savoyard style, serving cheese, meat and red wine in various combinations and cooked at the table, either on a raclette grill or, as they do with the steak, on a pierre chaude (hot stone).I have spent winters in the mountains since I was 16. It took me three tries to get to the Olympics and missing out twice was hard, but it taught me to deal with setbacks. I\u2019ve also travelled all over the world for qualifying events, so it hasn\u2019t been all bad.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Snowboarding", "Skiing holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Olympic snowboarder Dom Harington on Morzine, France"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:17:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has banned the import of lion heads, paws and skins as hunters\u2019 trophies, nearly four months after the killing of Zimbabwe\u2019s most famous lion by an American trophy hunter sparked international outrage.In a letter to the actor and animals rights activist Brigitte Bardot, France\u2019s environment minister, S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, said that she had instructed officials to stop issuing permits for lion trophies and was considering stricter controls on trophies from other species.\u201cFollowing your letter and recent visits in Africa in preparation of the climate summit in Paris, I want to let you know I have given orders to my services to stop delivering certificates for importing lion trophies,\u201d Royal wrote in the letter dated 12 November.\u201cConcerning other species trophies, I am in favour of a much stronger control for hunting trophies and this issue will be discussed with all the countries concerned and with the EU.\u201dIn July, conservationists and MEPs called for an EU-wide ban on the import of lion trophies following the death of Cecil the lion at the hands of a Minnesotan dentist near one of Zimbabwe\u2019s national parks. France is the first EU state to implement such a ban. In March, Australia also banned their import.Between 2010 and the 2013, the last year for which data is available, more than 100 such lion trophies were imported to France. Lionaid, a UK-based charity that is calling for the UK to follow suit with a ban on lion trophy imports, said it was \u201coverjoyed\u201d by the move. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWithin the EU, France was a major importer of such trophies and we expect that wild lions will now find themselves safer without the presence of French trophy hunters.\u201cWe trust that France\u2019s decision will create a domino effect within the EU and that we will soon hear about other member states joining together to say no [to trophies].\u201dCatherine Bearder, a Liberal Democrat MEP who led calls for a ban in the summer, said was \u201cdelighted\u201d by France\u2019s decision and the UK should follow its lead.The EU\u2019s scientific review group, which decides whether or not to blacklist trophy imports based on the sustainability of species, met in September and approved the continued import of lion trophies from Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique.Last month, scientists warned that lion numbers in central and western Africa are likely to halve in the next two decades due to loss of habitat and prey.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Cecil the lion", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Endangered species", "Animals", "Conservation"], "title": "France bans imports of lion hunt trophies"},{"date": "2015-10-18T23:50:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has launched an unprecedented diplomatic drive to shepherd nations big and small towards a major climate change deal, ahead of a Paris summit next month that is the next major make-or-break moment for the movement against global warming.Every one of France\u2019s ambassadors, in embassies and consulates around the globe, has been educated on the demands of climate change, and instructed in how to communicate the messages to the governments they deal with, ahead of the summit, which starts on 30 November.Ambassadors have been holding public events, private meetings, talks with their diplomatic counterparts, businesses, NGOs and even schoolchildren. At home, the outer walls of the foreign ministry, a stately 19th-century edifice on the banks of the Seine, are covered in a series of banners declaring, in several languages, the messages of Paris Climat 2015. Even the Eiffel Tower, further down the riverbank, has been pressed into service, lit up at night with climate slogans.Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the president of France, has been visiting world leaders for the past year, urging them to come to Paris. Laurent Fabius, foreign minister, who will be in charge of the talks, has made it his mission, with a punishing schedule of events and public speaking. S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, environment minister and co-host, has also been touring capitals and conferences. Related: Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks Climate diplomacy has never seen such a concerted push.\u201cIt\u2019s a top priority for our diplomacy. All our ambassadors are fully mobilised, all around the world,\u201d Sylvie Bermann, the French ambassador to the UK, told the Guardian. She has hosted a series of public seminars and events in the UK, with one forthcoming on climate change and refugees. The embassy itself has also taken on the green message, with her new official car a hybrid Peugeot 508 \u2013 a French manufacturer, of course.Even in countries such as India and Poland where, Bermann said \u201cthere might be more fisticuffs\u201d over climate change, the embassies have been engaging governments, and in China, where she was posted before coming to London \u2013 she is a fluent Chinese speaker \u2013 she notes a major push involving government and NGOs. Care has been taken to involve public opinion, too: there has even been a boat, the research vessel Tara, sponsored by the French fashion brand Agn\u00e8s B, that has toured the US, London, Scandinavia and other regions before coming home to France.A special ambassador has been appointed, Laurence Tubiana, who has also embarked on a whirlwind tour of capitals and dignitaries. With three months to go before the conference, France\u2019s ambassadors were lectured by Ban Ki-moon, UN secretary-general, who also has a big stake in the success of Paris, having presided over the previous conference in Copenhagen in 2009 that was widely derided as a failure, as it collapsed into scenes of chaos in the final hours.\u201cFor Hollande\u2019s administration, this is not just about the climate: it is about the government\u2019s political survival,\u201d one prominent global official told the Guardian. \u201cThey need this to be a success, to have something to celebrate, as they\u2019re in trouble in so many other areas of politics.\u201dAt the two-week summit, governments will meet under the auspices of the United Nations in the first attempt for six years to forge a new global agreement on climate change. COP21, as it is known in the jargon, is seen as a make-or-break conference, the last chance for the two-decades-old UN process to bring nations together to tackle what many scientists regard as the biggest single threat to humanity.This week, governments will gather in Bonn for the last chance before the Paris conference to amend the text of the potential agreement. Previous such meetings have produced little progress, however.For Hollande, whose low poll ratings have seen him become the most unpopular French president on record, securing a climate change deal is crucial for his reputation at home. France, marked by high unemployment and economic sluggishness, will go to the polls in regional elections while the climate talks are wrapping up in December, in two rounds on 6 and 13 December. Hollande, who still hopes to run for the presidency in 2017, will seek to use any successful deal to boost his standing.Will the climate diplomacy succeed? Elements of an agreement are slowly falling into place. Most countries, including all the biggest economies, have now submitted plans on their emissions to come into force after 2020, when current commitments expire. The US and China, the two biggest emitters, made a joint announcement on their emissions, for the first time, in a marked show of unity.But there is still no guarantee of success, and France has tried hard to learn the lessons of Copenhagen. Although a \u201cpolitical declaration\u201d was signed at that summit in 2009, with major developed and developing countries jointly agreeing emissions targets for the first time, it did not amount to the formal treaty that many had hoped for. That omission, and scenes in which delegates burst into tears, appeared to show world leaders did not know what was going on, and bitter public recriminations showed off all the fault lines among nations, allowed detractors to claim it as a resounding failure.Many things will be different this time, Tubiana has promised. For instance, at Copenhagen the text of a potential deal was in tatters, too unwieldy to produce a formal treaty. The text for Paris has been slimmed down to just over 20 pages, in a move the hosts hope will make it possible to sign it off in the two weeks of talks. World leaders, who arrived only at the end of Copenhagen, will land in Paris for the first day of talks, then hand over to their ministers and negotiators.Another key question is over financial assistance from richer to poorer countries. At Copenhagen, the developing world was promised $100bn (\u00a365bn) a year would flow to them by 2020. Significant progress has been made on this, not least at the World Bank meeting last week, where its president announced a $29bn increase in climate finance.French diplomats have also been at pains to include civil society groups and businesses at a high level. Civil society groups were excluded from the final fraught day at Copenhagen, to their manifest disgust, which did not help how that conference was portrayed afterwards.\u201cThe French have done an excellent job,\u201d says Christiana Figueres, the UN\u2019s climate chief, who has also been persuading world leaders to participate. \u201cThey have made a great effort.\u201dMost of the world\u2019s biggest economies have now publicly declared they want a deal. However, at the UN talks, small and desperately poor countries have just as much say as the richest. They may not be so happy to oblige.\u201cThe biggest problem with Paris is that it is in Paris,\u201d one prominent participant told the Guardian privately, meaning that holding such a major meeting in a G7 country risks alienating poor nations, who often feel that their interests are overlooked in the race to get big economies to commit.The French can hardly help the location, and appear conscious of the need to draw in a broader coalition, sometimes using their historic ties to the French-speaking and French-influenced countries of Africa and Asia \u2013 a strategy that could backfire, given the colonial overtones. But the charm offensive continued with President Hollande visiting Morocco recently. \u201cWe have a close cooperation with the Moroccans,\u201d says Bermann. \u201cI know there have been some problems but now cooperation is excellent so we\u2019re keen to work with them.\u201dIf Paris succeeds, it will not be down only to the French government and its troupes of ministers, civil servants, ambassadors and negotiators. But if it fails, the French and the UN know they will cop the blame.Additional reporting by Angelique Chrisafis in Paris", "tags": ["Global climate talks", "France", "Environment", "Climate change", "World news", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Europe", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "France launches global drive for climate deal"},{"date": "2015-10-09T10:27:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "Although born and bred in Yorkshire, I\u2019ve been snowboarding for almost 20 years and moved to the Portes du Soleil just over a year ago. Spread over 14 valleys between Mont Blanc and Lake Geneva, it\u2019s one of the world\u2019s largest ski areas and a great place to live. I chose Morzine because we used to train in the halfpipe there and I made friends and contacts who started businesses and made lives here.The Mutzig Challenge at Bar Robinson is one of several urban myths (or true stories) about what people get up to here. Mutzig is a 5.5% beer best enjoyed in halves, but the challenge is to drink 10 pints. Not many people have walked away from this feat \u2013 at least not in a straight line.Triathalons are bad enough in the UK, but in the \u201cMorzine to Chamonix triathlon of discomfort\u201d the swim is done in a melt-water lake and the run and cycle are through the Alps.One of my favourite runs is the Satellite \u2013 an easy hike and a mellow off-piste run. In such a large ski resort, there\u2019s a lot for everyone, from beginners to advanced skiers and snowboarders, and a lot of snow miles to be had. And you can ski or snowboard down the streets of Avoriaz in the winter. Related: Splitboarding in Chamonix: fresh terrain for grown-up snowboarders Avoriaz and Morzine get very busy during school holidays. They\u2019re on the French side of the lake, and easy to get to: a 90-minute drive from Geneva airport and one of the shortest drives from the UK. So I\u2019d buy a full-area pass and take on the whole circuit, which fills a day and takes you far from the crowds. Champ\u00e9ry, over the border in Switzerland, is much quieter, and feasible as a family day trip on the lifts.The \u201changover reset\u201d is the best reason to visit the mountains \u2013 aside from the fresh air and scenery. So long as you are able to get up and out, the cold air in your face on the first run of the day blows the cobwebs away and means you skip that hangover. Better than sweating it out on a beach in 30C.The Nico Droz road gap is a terrifying \u201cleap of faith\u201d snowboard jump. You jump off a 30ft-high platform and over a piste, landing on the other side and riding out over frozen Lake Avoriaz. First taken on by legendary French rider Nico Droz, and attempted by few others since then, the jump is easily seen from around the resort and looks a hell of a lot bigger in real life than it does on video.The heated terrace and wide beer selection at La Marmotte D\u2019Or make it perfect for enjoying the last rays of sun after a hard day on the hill. It often has live music and I\u2019ve been known to spin a few tunes there myself. In the winter, I DJ with my friend on Tuesdays at Op\u00e9ra, one of two clubs in Morzine.British people get a bit wild on their holidays. Last season\u2019s Rock the Pistes festival up on the mountain, featured Babyshambles and the Klaxons. Everyone got hammered in the afternoon and after the festival, everyone rode down. Even the bands borrowed skis and went down in jeans.For dinner, I\u2019d recommend an \u201call-you-can-eat meat treat\u201d at L\u2019Etale in the middle of Morzine. The restaurant is Savoyard style, serving cheese, meat and red wine in various combinations and cooked at the table, either on a raclette grill or, as they do with the steak, on a pierre chaude (hot stone).I have spent winters in the mountains since I was 16. It took me three tries to get to the Olympics and missing out twice was hard, but it taught me to deal with setbacks. I\u2019ve also travelled all over the world for qualifying events, so it hasn\u2019t been all bad.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Snowboarding", "Skiing holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Olympic snowboarder Dom Harington on Morzine, France"},{"date": "2015-10-06T11:20:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "A violent Air France protest in which striking workers stormed a board meeting and ripped the shirts from executives\u2019 backs has been denounced by Fran\u00e7ois Hollande as unacceptable and bad for France\u2019s image.After pictures of bare-chested executives fleeing over a fence with their clothes torn to shreds made front pages across the world, the French president said: \u201cSocial dialogue matters, and when it\u2019s interrupted by violence and disputes take on an unacceptable form, it can have consequences for the image and attractiveness [of the country].\u201dHollande called for responsible talks between management and union leaders and compromise and negotiation at France\u2019s loss-making carrier. The troubled airline, which employs 52,000 people, is struggling to compete with its global rivals and is finalising a controversial restructuring plan involving 2,900 redundancies \u2013 1,700 ground staff, 900 cabin crew and 300 pilots \u2013 between now and 2017.Earlier, the French transport minister, Alain Vidalies, said the images of an Air France human resources manager with his shirt ripped off amounted to a caricature of France that was unhelpful to the airline\u2019s future. \u201cI think the best French response would be to respond to those abroad who see a caricature, that these events are not France, and that we can get back on track by talking.\u201d Related: Air France protests \u2013 in pictures  He said there was no question of renationalisation for the airline. \u201cIt\u2019s not the taxpayer who is going to pay.\u201d The French state holds a 17% stake in the airline.A legal investigation has been opened after Air France lodged a complaint over aggravated violence, saying seven people were injured, including a security guard who was seriously hurt.Air France-KLM\u2019s human resources manager, Xavier Broseta, had his shirt ripped off and, wearing just his tie and trousers, had to clamber over a wire fence to safety after hundreds of striking workers stormed the board meeting on Monday in protest at the planned job cuts. Another executive, Pierre Plissonnier, who is responsible for the long-haul flight division, had his shirt and jacket torn.", "tags": ["Air France/KLM", "France", "Paris", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Unions", "Protest", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "Air France protest scenes unacceptable, says Hollande"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:17:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has banned the import of lion heads, paws and skins as hunters\u2019 trophies, nearly four months after the killing of Zimbabwe\u2019s most famous lion by an American trophy hunter sparked international outrage.In a letter to the actor and animals rights activist Brigitte Bardot, France\u2019s environment minister, S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, said that she had instructed officials to stop issuing permits for lion trophies and was considering stricter controls on trophies from other species.\u201cFollowing your letter and recent visits in Africa in preparation of the climate summit in Paris, I want to let you know I have given orders to my services to stop delivering certificates for importing lion trophies,\u201d Royal wrote in the letter dated 12 November.\u201cConcerning other species trophies, I am in favour of a much stronger control for hunting trophies and this issue will be discussed with all the countries concerned and with the EU.\u201dIn July, conservationists and MEPs called for an EU-wide ban on the import of lion trophies following the death of Cecil the lion at the hands of a Minnesotan dentist near one of Zimbabwe\u2019s national parks. France is the first EU state to implement such a ban. In March, Australia also banned their import.Between 2010 and the 2013, the last year for which data is available, more than 100 such lion trophies were imported to France. Lionaid, a UK-based charity that is calling for the UK to follow suit with a ban on lion trophy imports, said it was \u201coverjoyed\u201d by the move. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWithin the EU, France was a major importer of such trophies and we expect that wild lions will now find themselves safer without the presence of French trophy hunters.\u201cWe trust that France\u2019s decision will create a domino effect within the EU and that we will soon hear about other member states joining together to say no [to trophies].\u201dCatherine Bearder, a Liberal Democrat MEP who led calls for a ban in the summer, said was \u201cdelighted\u201d by France\u2019s decision and the UK should follow its lead.The EU\u2019s scientific review group, which decides whether or not to blacklist trophy imports based on the sustainability of species, met in September and approved the continued import of lion trophies from Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique.Last month, scientists warned that lion numbers in central and western Africa are likely to halve in the next two decades due to loss of habitat and prey.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Cecil the lion", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Endangered species", "Animals", "Conservation"], "title": "France bans imports of lion hunt trophies"},{"date": "2015-10-18T23:50:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has launched an unprecedented diplomatic drive to shepherd nations big and small towards a major climate change deal, ahead of a Paris summit next month that is the next major make-or-break moment for the movement against global warming.Every one of France\u2019s ambassadors, in embassies and consulates around the globe, has been educated on the demands of climate change, and instructed in how to communicate the messages to the governments they deal with, ahead of the summit, which starts on 30 November.Ambassadors have been holding public events, private meetings, talks with their diplomatic counterparts, businesses, NGOs and even schoolchildren. At home, the outer walls of the foreign ministry, a stately 19th-century edifice on the banks of the Seine, are covered in a series of banners declaring, in several languages, the messages of Paris Climat 2015. Even the Eiffel Tower, further down the riverbank, has been pressed into service, lit up at night with climate slogans.Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the president of France, has been visiting world leaders for the past year, urging them to come to Paris. Laurent Fabius, foreign minister, who will be in charge of the talks, has made it his mission, with a punishing schedule of events and public speaking. S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, environment minister and co-host, has also been touring capitals and conferences. Related: Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks Climate diplomacy has never seen such a concerted push.\u201cIt\u2019s a top priority for our diplomacy. All our ambassadors are fully mobilised, all around the world,\u201d Sylvie Bermann, the French ambassador to the UK, told the Guardian. She has hosted a series of public seminars and events in the UK, with one forthcoming on climate change and refugees. The embassy itself has also taken on the green message, with her new official car a hybrid Peugeot 508 \u2013 a French manufacturer, of course.Even in countries such as India and Poland where, Bermann said \u201cthere might be more fisticuffs\u201d over climate change, the embassies have been engaging governments, and in China, where she was posted before coming to London \u2013 she is a fluent Chinese speaker \u2013 she notes a major push involving government and NGOs. Care has been taken to involve public opinion, too: there has even been a boat, the research vessel Tara, sponsored by the French fashion brand Agn\u00e8s B, that has toured the US, London, Scandinavia and other regions before coming home to France.A special ambassador has been appointed, Laurence Tubiana, who has also embarked on a whirlwind tour of capitals and dignitaries. With three months to go before the conference, France\u2019s ambassadors were lectured by Ban Ki-moon, UN secretary-general, who also has a big stake in the success of Paris, having presided over the previous conference in Copenhagen in 2009 that was widely derided as a failure, as it collapsed into scenes of chaos in the final hours.\u201cFor Hollande\u2019s administration, this is not just about the climate: it is about the government\u2019s political survival,\u201d one prominent global official told the Guardian. \u201cThey need this to be a success, to have something to celebrate, as they\u2019re in trouble in so many other areas of politics.\u201dAt the two-week summit, governments will meet under the auspices of the United Nations in the first attempt for six years to forge a new global agreement on climate change. COP21, as it is known in the jargon, is seen as a make-or-break conference, the last chance for the two-decades-old UN process to bring nations together to tackle what many scientists regard as the biggest single threat to humanity.This week, governments will gather in Bonn for the last chance before the Paris conference to amend the text of the potential agreement. Previous such meetings have produced little progress, however.For Hollande, whose low poll ratings have seen him become the most unpopular French president on record, securing a climate change deal is crucial for his reputation at home. France, marked by high unemployment and economic sluggishness, will go to the polls in regional elections while the climate talks are wrapping up in December, in two rounds on 6 and 13 December. Hollande, who still hopes to run for the presidency in 2017, will seek to use any successful deal to boost his standing.Will the climate diplomacy succeed? Elements of an agreement are slowly falling into place. Most countries, including all the biggest economies, have now submitted plans on their emissions to come into force after 2020, when current commitments expire. The US and China, the two biggest emitters, made a joint announcement on their emissions, for the first time, in a marked show of unity.But there is still no guarantee of success, and France has tried hard to learn the lessons of Copenhagen. Although a \u201cpolitical declaration\u201d was signed at that summit in 2009, with major developed and developing countries jointly agreeing emissions targets for the first time, it did not amount to the formal treaty that many had hoped for. That omission, and scenes in which delegates burst into tears, appeared to show world leaders did not know what was going on, and bitter public recriminations showed off all the fault lines among nations, allowed detractors to claim it as a resounding failure.Many things will be different this time, Tubiana has promised. For instance, at Copenhagen the text of a potential deal was in tatters, too unwieldy to produce a formal treaty. The text for Paris has been slimmed down to just over 20 pages, in a move the hosts hope will make it possible to sign it off in the two weeks of talks. World leaders, who arrived only at the end of Copenhagen, will land in Paris for the first day of talks, then hand over to their ministers and negotiators.Another key question is over financial assistance from richer to poorer countries. At Copenhagen, the developing world was promised $100bn (\u00a365bn) a year would flow to them by 2020. Significant progress has been made on this, not least at the World Bank meeting last week, where its president announced a $29bn increase in climate finance.French diplomats have also been at pains to include civil society groups and businesses at a high level. Civil society groups were excluded from the final fraught day at Copenhagen, to their manifest disgust, which did not help how that conference was portrayed afterwards.\u201cThe French have done an excellent job,\u201d says Christiana Figueres, the UN\u2019s climate chief, who has also been persuading world leaders to participate. \u201cThey have made a great effort.\u201dMost of the world\u2019s biggest economies have now publicly declared they want a deal. However, at the UN talks, small and desperately poor countries have just as much say as the richest. They may not be so happy to oblige.\u201cThe biggest problem with Paris is that it is in Paris,\u201d one prominent participant told the Guardian privately, meaning that holding such a major meeting in a G7 country risks alienating poor nations, who often feel that their interests are overlooked in the race to get big economies to commit.The French can hardly help the location, and appear conscious of the need to draw in a broader coalition, sometimes using their historic ties to the French-speaking and French-influenced countries of Africa and Asia \u2013 a strategy that could backfire, given the colonial overtones. But the charm offensive continued with President Hollande visiting Morocco recently. \u201cWe have a close cooperation with the Moroccans,\u201d says Bermann. \u201cI know there have been some problems but now cooperation is excellent so we\u2019re keen to work with them.\u201dIf Paris succeeds, it will not be down only to the French government and its troupes of ministers, civil servants, ambassadors and negotiators. But if it fails, the French and the UN know they will cop the blame.Additional reporting by Angelique Chrisafis in Paris", "tags": ["Global climate talks", "France", "Environment", "Climate change", "World news", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Europe", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "France launches global drive for climate deal"},{"date": "2015-10-09T10:27:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "Although born and bred in Yorkshire, I\u2019ve been snowboarding for almost 20 years and moved to the Portes du Soleil just over a year ago. Spread over 14 valleys between Mont Blanc and Lake Geneva, it\u2019s one of the world\u2019s largest ski areas and a great place to live. I chose Morzine because we used to train in the halfpipe there and I made friends and contacts who started businesses and made lives here.The Mutzig Challenge at Bar Robinson is one of several urban myths (or true stories) about what people get up to here. Mutzig is a 5.5% beer best enjoyed in halves, but the challenge is to drink 10 pints. Not many people have walked away from this feat \u2013 at least not in a straight line.Triathalons are bad enough in the UK, but in the \u201cMorzine to Chamonix triathlon of discomfort\u201d the swim is done in a melt-water lake and the run and cycle are through the Alps.One of my favourite runs is the Satellite \u2013 an easy hike and a mellow off-piste run. In such a large ski resort, there\u2019s a lot for everyone, from beginners to advanced skiers and snowboarders, and a lot of snow miles to be had. And you can ski or snowboard down the streets of Avoriaz in the winter. Related: Splitboarding in Chamonix: fresh terrain for grown-up snowboarders Avoriaz and Morzine get very busy during school holidays. They\u2019re on the French side of the lake, and easy to get to: a 90-minute drive from Geneva airport and one of the shortest drives from the UK. So I\u2019d buy a full-area pass and take on the whole circuit, which fills a day and takes you far from the crowds. Champ\u00e9ry, over the border in Switzerland, is much quieter, and feasible as a family day trip on the lifts.The \u201changover reset\u201d is the best reason to visit the mountains \u2013 aside from the fresh air and scenery. So long as you are able to get up and out, the cold air in your face on the first run of the day blows the cobwebs away and means you skip that hangover. Better than sweating it out on a beach in 30C.The Nico Droz road gap is a terrifying \u201cleap of faith\u201d snowboard jump. You jump off a 30ft-high platform and over a piste, landing on the other side and riding out over frozen Lake Avoriaz. First taken on by legendary French rider Nico Droz, and attempted by few others since then, the jump is easily seen from around the resort and looks a hell of a lot bigger in real life than it does on video.The heated terrace and wide beer selection at La Marmotte D\u2019Or make it perfect for enjoying the last rays of sun after a hard day on the hill. It often has live music and I\u2019ve been known to spin a few tunes there myself. In the winter, I DJ with my friend on Tuesdays at Op\u00e9ra, one of two clubs in Morzine.British people get a bit wild on their holidays. Last season\u2019s Rock the Pistes festival up on the mountain, featured Babyshambles and the Klaxons. Everyone got hammered in the afternoon and after the festival, everyone rode down. Even the bands borrowed skis and went down in jeans.For dinner, I\u2019d recommend an \u201call-you-can-eat meat treat\u201d at L\u2019Etale in the middle of Morzine. The restaurant is Savoyard style, serving cheese, meat and red wine in various combinations and cooked at the table, either on a raclette grill or, as they do with the steak, on a pierre chaude (hot stone).I have spent winters in the mountains since I was 16. It took me three tries to get to the Olympics and missing out twice was hard, but it taught me to deal with setbacks. I\u2019ve also travelled all over the world for qualifying events, so it hasn\u2019t been all bad.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Snowboarding", "Skiing holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Olympic snowboarder Dom Harington on Morzine, France"},{"date": "2015-10-06T11:20:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "A violent Air France protest in which striking workers stormed a board meeting and ripped the shirts from executives\u2019 backs has been denounced by Fran\u00e7ois Hollande as unacceptable and bad for France\u2019s image.After pictures of bare-chested executives fleeing over a fence with their clothes torn to shreds made front pages across the world, the French president said: \u201cSocial dialogue matters, and when it\u2019s interrupted by violence and disputes take on an unacceptable form, it can have consequences for the image and attractiveness [of the country].\u201dHollande called for responsible talks between management and union leaders and compromise and negotiation at France\u2019s loss-making carrier. The troubled airline, which employs 52,000 people, is struggling to compete with its global rivals and is finalising a controversial restructuring plan involving 2,900 redundancies \u2013 1,700 ground staff, 900 cabin crew and 300 pilots \u2013 between now and 2017.Earlier, the French transport minister, Alain Vidalies, said the images of an Air France human resources manager with his shirt ripped off amounted to a caricature of France that was unhelpful to the airline\u2019s future. \u201cI think the best French response would be to respond to those abroad who see a caricature, that these events are not France, and that we can get back on track by talking.\u201d Related: Air France protests \u2013 in pictures  He said there was no question of renationalisation for the airline. \u201cIt\u2019s not the taxpayer who is going to pay.\u201d The French state holds a 17% stake in the airline.A legal investigation has been opened after Air France lodged a complaint over aggravated violence, saying seven people were injured, including a security guard who was seriously hurt.Air France-KLM\u2019s human resources manager, Xavier Broseta, had his shirt ripped off and, wearing just his tie and trousers, had to clamber over a wire fence to safety after hundreds of striking workers stormed the board meeting on Monday in protest at the planned job cuts. Another executive, Pierre Plissonnier, who is responsible for the long-haul flight division, had his shirt and jacket torn.", "tags": ["Air France/KLM", "France", "Paris", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Unions", "Protest", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "Air France protest scenes unacceptable, says Hollande"},{"date": "2015-12-23T11:15:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "A terror suspect who decapitated his boss and took a selfie with the head and flags covered in Islamic writings has killed himself while in prison awaiting trial.Yassin Salhi, 35, had also tried to blow up an industrial gas factory by driving his car at a pile of inflammable bottles before he was arrested in June. He was formally put under investigation \u2013 the French equivalent of being charged \u2013 for \u201cmurder as part of a terrorist operation, kidnapping and imprisoning with a view to murder, wilful destruction and violence\u201d.Salhi always denied any terrorist connection, claiming he had cracked after falling out with his employer at a transport company. He was accused of kidnapping Herv\u00e9 Cornara two days after a quarrel, strangling him and cutting off his head with a knife. Related: France beheading: suspect had Isis links and terrorist motive, says prosecutor Before placing the head on the gates of the Air Products factory at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, south-east of Lyon, Salhi took a photograph of himself with his victim, which he allegedly sent to a friend fighting in Syria. Two flags hung nearby were inscribed with the shahada: the Muslim profession of faith and the first of the five pillars of Islam. He then drove his car into the factory and attempted to blow it up by smashing the vehicle into a pile of gas bottles.Before being arrested, police claim he shouted \u201cAllahu Akbar\u201d.Salhi, a father-of-three, was being held in solitary confinement, but was not considered a suicide risk.The Paris public prosecutor, Fran\u00e7ois Molins, under whose jurisdiction Salhi was transferred, told journalists the attack \u201cexactly corresponded to Daesh [Islamic State] orders\u201d, particularly the fact that the accused man had attempted to obtain \u201cmaximum publicity\u201d for his act.Cornara\u2019s widow, Laurence, told radio station Europe 1 she was angry. She said: \u201cI don\u2019t understand how this could have happened. It\u2019s not normal.\u201dShe added: \u201cI was waiting with impatience to find myself face to face with him [in court], to look him in the eye. He was a coward and he would be a coward to the end.\u201d\u2022 In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countries can be found here.", "tags": ["France", "Islamic State", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France beheading: terror suspect kills himself in prison"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:17:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has banned the import of lion heads, paws and skins as hunters\u2019 trophies, nearly four months after the killing of Zimbabwe\u2019s most famous lion by an American trophy hunter sparked international outrage.In a letter to the actor and animals rights activist Brigitte Bardot, France\u2019s environment minister, S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, said that she had instructed officials to stop issuing permits for lion trophies and was considering stricter controls on trophies from other species.\u201cFollowing your letter and recent visits in Africa in preparation of the climate summit in Paris, I want to let you know I have given orders to my services to stop delivering certificates for importing lion trophies,\u201d Royal wrote in the letter dated 12 November.\u201cConcerning other species trophies, I am in favour of a much stronger control for hunting trophies and this issue will be discussed with all the countries concerned and with the EU.\u201dIn July, conservationists and MEPs called for an EU-wide ban on the import of lion trophies following the death of Cecil the lion at the hands of a Minnesotan dentist near one of Zimbabwe\u2019s national parks. France is the first EU state to implement such a ban. In March, Australia also banned their import.Between 2010 and the 2013, the last year for which data is available, more than 100 such lion trophies were imported to France. Lionaid, a UK-based charity that is calling for the UK to follow suit with a ban on lion trophy imports, said it was \u201coverjoyed\u201d by the move. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWithin the EU, France was a major importer of such trophies and we expect that wild lions will now find themselves safer without the presence of French trophy hunters.\u201cWe trust that France\u2019s decision will create a domino effect within the EU and that we will soon hear about other member states joining together to say no [to trophies].\u201dCatherine Bearder, a Liberal Democrat MEP who led calls for a ban in the summer, said was \u201cdelighted\u201d by France\u2019s decision and the UK should follow its lead.The EU\u2019s scientific review group, which decides whether or not to blacklist trophy imports based on the sustainability of species, met in September and approved the continued import of lion trophies from Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique.Last month, scientists warned that lion numbers in central and western Africa are likely to halve in the next two decades due to loss of habitat and prey.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Cecil the lion", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Endangered species", "Animals", "Conservation"], "title": "France bans imports of lion hunt trophies"},{"date": "2015-10-18T23:50:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has launched an unprecedented diplomatic drive to shepherd nations big and small towards a major climate change deal, ahead of a Paris summit next month that is the next major make-or-break moment for the movement against global warming.Every one of France\u2019s ambassadors, in embassies and consulates around the globe, has been educated on the demands of climate change, and instructed in how to communicate the messages to the governments they deal with, ahead of the summit, which starts on 30 November.Ambassadors have been holding public events, private meetings, talks with their diplomatic counterparts, businesses, NGOs and even schoolchildren. At home, the outer walls of the foreign ministry, a stately 19th-century edifice on the banks of the Seine, are covered in a series of banners declaring, in several languages, the messages of Paris Climat 2015. Even the Eiffel Tower, further down the riverbank, has been pressed into service, lit up at night with climate slogans.Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the president of France, has been visiting world leaders for the past year, urging them to come to Paris. Laurent Fabius, foreign minister, who will be in charge of the talks, has made it his mission, with a punishing schedule of events and public speaking. S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, environment minister and co-host, has also been touring capitals and conferences. Related: Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks Climate diplomacy has never seen such a concerted push.\u201cIt\u2019s a top priority for our diplomacy. All our ambassadors are fully mobilised, all around the world,\u201d Sylvie Bermann, the French ambassador to the UK, told the Guardian. She has hosted a series of public seminars and events in the UK, with one forthcoming on climate change and refugees. The embassy itself has also taken on the green message, with her new official car a hybrid Peugeot 508 \u2013 a French manufacturer, of course.Even in countries such as India and Poland where, Bermann said \u201cthere might be more fisticuffs\u201d over climate change, the embassies have been engaging governments, and in China, where she was posted before coming to London \u2013 she is a fluent Chinese speaker \u2013 she notes a major push involving government and NGOs. Care has been taken to involve public opinion, too: there has even been a boat, the research vessel Tara, sponsored by the French fashion brand Agn\u00e8s B, that has toured the US, London, Scandinavia and other regions before coming home to France.A special ambassador has been appointed, Laurence Tubiana, who has also embarked on a whirlwind tour of capitals and dignitaries. With three months to go before the conference, France\u2019s ambassadors were lectured by Ban Ki-moon, UN secretary-general, who also has a big stake in the success of Paris, having presided over the previous conference in Copenhagen in 2009 that was widely derided as a failure, as it collapsed into scenes of chaos in the final hours.\u201cFor Hollande\u2019s administration, this is not just about the climate: it is about the government\u2019s political survival,\u201d one prominent global official told the Guardian. \u201cThey need this to be a success, to have something to celebrate, as they\u2019re in trouble in so many other areas of politics.\u201dAt the two-week summit, governments will meet under the auspices of the United Nations in the first attempt for six years to forge a new global agreement on climate change. COP21, as it is known in the jargon, is seen as a make-or-break conference, the last chance for the two-decades-old UN process to bring nations together to tackle what many scientists regard as the biggest single threat to humanity.This week, governments will gather in Bonn for the last chance before the Paris conference to amend the text of the potential agreement. Previous such meetings have produced little progress, however.For Hollande, whose low poll ratings have seen him become the most unpopular French president on record, securing a climate change deal is crucial for his reputation at home. France, marked by high unemployment and economic sluggishness, will go to the polls in regional elections while the climate talks are wrapping up in December, in two rounds on 6 and 13 December. Hollande, who still hopes to run for the presidency in 2017, will seek to use any successful deal to boost his standing.Will the climate diplomacy succeed? Elements of an agreement are slowly falling into place. Most countries, including all the biggest economies, have now submitted plans on their emissions to come into force after 2020, when current commitments expire. The US and China, the two biggest emitters, made a joint announcement on their emissions, for the first time, in a marked show of unity.But there is still no guarantee of success, and France has tried hard to learn the lessons of Copenhagen. Although a \u201cpolitical declaration\u201d was signed at that summit in 2009, with major developed and developing countries jointly agreeing emissions targets for the first time, it did not amount to the formal treaty that many had hoped for. That omission, and scenes in which delegates burst into tears, appeared to show world leaders did not know what was going on, and bitter public recriminations showed off all the fault lines among nations, allowed detractors to claim it as a resounding failure.Many things will be different this time, Tubiana has promised. For instance, at Copenhagen the text of a potential deal was in tatters, too unwieldy to produce a formal treaty. The text for Paris has been slimmed down to just over 20 pages, in a move the hosts hope will make it possible to sign it off in the two weeks of talks. World leaders, who arrived only at the end of Copenhagen, will land in Paris for the first day of talks, then hand over to their ministers and negotiators.Another key question is over financial assistance from richer to poorer countries. At Copenhagen, the developing world was promised $100bn (\u00a365bn) a year would flow to them by 2020. Significant progress has been made on this, not least at the World Bank meeting last week, where its president announced a $29bn increase in climate finance.French diplomats have also been at pains to include civil society groups and businesses at a high level. Civil society groups were excluded from the final fraught day at Copenhagen, to their manifest disgust, which did not help how that conference was portrayed afterwards.\u201cThe French have done an excellent job,\u201d says Christiana Figueres, the UN\u2019s climate chief, who has also been persuading world leaders to participate. \u201cThey have made a great effort.\u201dMost of the world\u2019s biggest economies have now publicly declared they want a deal. However, at the UN talks, small and desperately poor countries have just as much say as the richest. They may not be so happy to oblige.\u201cThe biggest problem with Paris is that it is in Paris,\u201d one prominent participant told the Guardian privately, meaning that holding such a major meeting in a G7 country risks alienating poor nations, who often feel that their interests are overlooked in the race to get big economies to commit.The French can hardly help the location, and appear conscious of the need to draw in a broader coalition, sometimes using their historic ties to the French-speaking and French-influenced countries of Africa and Asia \u2013 a strategy that could backfire, given the colonial overtones. But the charm offensive continued with President Hollande visiting Morocco recently. \u201cWe have a close cooperation with the Moroccans,\u201d says Bermann. \u201cI know there have been some problems but now cooperation is excellent so we\u2019re keen to work with them.\u201dIf Paris succeeds, it will not be down only to the French government and its troupes of ministers, civil servants, ambassadors and negotiators. But if it fails, the French and the UN know they will cop the blame.Additional reporting by Angelique Chrisafis in Paris", "tags": ["Global climate talks", "France", "Environment", "Climate change", "World news", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Europe", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "France launches global drive for climate deal"},{"date": "2015-10-09T10:27:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "Although born and bred in Yorkshire, I\u2019ve been snowboarding for almost 20 years and moved to the Portes du Soleil just over a year ago. Spread over 14 valleys between Mont Blanc and Lake Geneva, it\u2019s one of the world\u2019s largest ski areas and a great place to live. I chose Morzine because we used to train in the halfpipe there and I made friends and contacts who started businesses and made lives here.The Mutzig Challenge at Bar Robinson is one of several urban myths (or true stories) about what people get up to here. Mutzig is a 5.5% beer best enjoyed in halves, but the challenge is to drink 10 pints. Not many people have walked away from this feat \u2013 at least not in a straight line.Triathalons are bad enough in the UK, but in the \u201cMorzine to Chamonix triathlon of discomfort\u201d the swim is done in a melt-water lake and the run and cycle are through the Alps.One of my favourite runs is the Satellite \u2013 an easy hike and a mellow off-piste run. In such a large ski resort, there\u2019s a lot for everyone, from beginners to advanced skiers and snowboarders, and a lot of snow miles to be had. And you can ski or snowboard down the streets of Avoriaz in the winter. Related: Splitboarding in Chamonix: fresh terrain for grown-up snowboarders Avoriaz and Morzine get very busy during school holidays. They\u2019re on the French side of the lake, and easy to get to: a 90-minute drive from Geneva airport and one of the shortest drives from the UK. So I\u2019d buy a full-area pass and take on the whole circuit, which fills a day and takes you far from the crowds. Champ\u00e9ry, over the border in Switzerland, is much quieter, and feasible as a family day trip on the lifts.The \u201changover reset\u201d is the best reason to visit the mountains \u2013 aside from the fresh air and scenery. So long as you are able to get up and out, the cold air in your face on the first run of the day blows the cobwebs away and means you skip that hangover. Better than sweating it out on a beach in 30C.The Nico Droz road gap is a terrifying \u201cleap of faith\u201d snowboard jump. You jump off a 30ft-high platform and over a piste, landing on the other side and riding out over frozen Lake Avoriaz. First taken on by legendary French rider Nico Droz, and attempted by few others since then, the jump is easily seen from around the resort and looks a hell of a lot bigger in real life than it does on video.The heated terrace and wide beer selection at La Marmotte D\u2019Or make it perfect for enjoying the last rays of sun after a hard day on the hill. It often has live music and I\u2019ve been known to spin a few tunes there myself. In the winter, I DJ with my friend on Tuesdays at Op\u00e9ra, one of two clubs in Morzine.British people get a bit wild on their holidays. Last season\u2019s Rock the Pistes festival up on the mountain, featured Babyshambles and the Klaxons. Everyone got hammered in the afternoon and after the festival, everyone rode down. Even the bands borrowed skis and went down in jeans.For dinner, I\u2019d recommend an \u201call-you-can-eat meat treat\u201d at L\u2019Etale in the middle of Morzine. The restaurant is Savoyard style, serving cheese, meat and red wine in various combinations and cooked at the table, either on a raclette grill or, as they do with the steak, on a pierre chaude (hot stone).I have spent winters in the mountains since I was 16. It took me three tries to get to the Olympics and missing out twice was hard, but it taught me to deal with setbacks. I\u2019ve also travelled all over the world for qualifying events, so it hasn\u2019t been all bad.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Snowboarding", "Skiing holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Olympic snowboarder Dom Harington on Morzine, France"},{"date": "2015-10-06T11:20:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "A violent Air France protest in which striking workers stormed a board meeting and ripped the shirts from executives\u2019 backs has been denounced by Fran\u00e7ois Hollande as unacceptable and bad for France\u2019s image.After pictures of bare-chested executives fleeing over a fence with their clothes torn to shreds made front pages across the world, the French president said: \u201cSocial dialogue matters, and when it\u2019s interrupted by violence and disputes take on an unacceptable form, it can have consequences for the image and attractiveness [of the country].\u201dHollande called for responsible talks between management and union leaders and compromise and negotiation at France\u2019s loss-making carrier. The troubled airline, which employs 52,000 people, is struggling to compete with its global rivals and is finalising a controversial restructuring plan involving 2,900 redundancies \u2013 1,700 ground staff, 900 cabin crew and 300 pilots \u2013 between now and 2017.Earlier, the French transport minister, Alain Vidalies, said the images of an Air France human resources manager with his shirt ripped off amounted to a caricature of France that was unhelpful to the airline\u2019s future. \u201cI think the best French response would be to respond to those abroad who see a caricature, that these events are not France, and that we can get back on track by talking.\u201d Related: Air France protests \u2013 in pictures  He said there was no question of renationalisation for the airline. \u201cIt\u2019s not the taxpayer who is going to pay.\u201d The French state holds a 17% stake in the airline.A legal investigation has been opened after Air France lodged a complaint over aggravated violence, saying seven people were injured, including a security guard who was seriously hurt.Air France-KLM\u2019s human resources manager, Xavier Broseta, had his shirt ripped off and, wearing just his tie and trousers, had to clamber over a wire fence to safety after hundreds of striking workers stormed the board meeting on Monday in protest at the planned job cuts. Another executive, Pierre Plissonnier, who is responsible for the long-haul flight division, had his shirt and jacket torn.", "tags": ["Air France/KLM", "France", "Paris", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Unions", "Protest", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "Air France protest scenes unacceptable, says Hollande"},{"date": "2015-12-23T11:15:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "A terror suspect who decapitated his boss and took a selfie with the head and flags covered in Islamic writings has killed himself while in prison awaiting trial.Yassin Salhi, 35, had also tried to blow up an industrial gas factory by driving his car at a pile of inflammable bottles before he was arrested in June. He was formally put under investigation \u2013 the French equivalent of being charged \u2013 for \u201cmurder as part of a terrorist operation, kidnapping and imprisoning with a view to murder, wilful destruction and violence\u201d.Salhi always denied any terrorist connection, claiming he had cracked after falling out with his employer at a transport company. He was accused of kidnapping Herv\u00e9 Cornara two days after a quarrel, strangling him and cutting off his head with a knife. Related: France beheading: suspect had Isis links and terrorist motive, says prosecutor Before placing the head on the gates of the Air Products factory at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, south-east of Lyon, Salhi took a photograph of himself with his victim, which he allegedly sent to a friend fighting in Syria. Two flags hung nearby were inscribed with the shahada: the Muslim profession of faith and the first of the five pillars of Islam. He then drove his car into the factory and attempted to blow it up by smashing the vehicle into a pile of gas bottles.Before being arrested, police claim he shouted \u201cAllahu Akbar\u201d.Salhi, a father-of-three, was being held in solitary confinement, but was not considered a suicide risk.The Paris public prosecutor, Fran\u00e7ois Molins, under whose jurisdiction Salhi was transferred, told journalists the attack \u201cexactly corresponded to Daesh [Islamic State] orders\u201d, particularly the fact that the accused man had attempted to obtain \u201cmaximum publicity\u201d for his act.Cornara\u2019s widow, Laurence, told radio station Europe 1 she was angry. She said: \u201cI don\u2019t understand how this could have happened. It\u2019s not normal.\u201dShe added: \u201cI was waiting with impatience to find myself face to face with him [in court], to look him in the eye. He was a coward and he would be a coward to the end.\u201d\u2022 In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countries can be found here.", "tags": ["France", "Islamic State", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France beheading: terror suspect kills himself in prison"},{"date": "2015-12-18T00:42:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "Models working in France will need a medical certificate proving they are healthy and not dangerously thin under a new law approved by French MPs.Failure to provide a certificate will be punishable by up to six months in jail and a fine of \u20ac75,000 (around \u00a354,500).The bill also forces magazines to flag up photographs that have been \u201ctouched up\u201d or Photoshopped.The tough new legislation is aimed at combating the growing problem of anorexia in models and rising numbers of young people with eating disorders. Related: From social media to the catwalk, is fantasy beauty failing young women? The measures were adopted as part of a new health bill on Thursday. Models will have to provide employers with a doctor\u2019s certificate confirming that \u201cthe state of health of the model, assessed with regard to her body mass index (BMI), is compatible with the exercise of her profession\u201d.However, French MPs rejected a clause in an earlier draft of the bill imposing a minimum BMI \u2013 measured according to height and weight \u2013 on those working in the fashion and advertising industry.Parliamentarians instead agreed to let doctors make the call on whether a model is too thin, taking into account a range of criteria, including age, gender and body shape.Published photographs of models that have been modified \u201cin order to narrow or widen the silhouette\u201d should be labelled as \u201cphotograph touched up\u201d. Those who failed to comply could face a fine of up to \u20ac37,500 , or 30% of the value of the advert featuring the model.An earlier version of the bill also made it an offence punishable by up to a year\u2019s imprisonment to encourage excessive thinness, a measure aimed at \u201cpro-ana\u201d websites that extol or promote anorexia or bulimia. Related: Ban underfed and underage models in fashion, MPs urged That proposal too was excised from the text adopted by the national assembly, or lower house of parliament.Catherine Lemorton, president of the government\u2019s social affairs committee, said many of those who ran such sites \u201csuffered themselves with eating problems\u201d and might be damaged further by the threat of prison.When the law was first introduced to the house in April this year, Marie-Rose Moro, a psychoanalyst and psychiatrist, said the law would solve nothing. \u201cIt would be better to provide more resources to care for anorexic patients,\u201d she said, adding that there should be \u201cmore awareness to eating disorders in society\u201d.Modelling agencies also attacked the law. \u201cIt\u2019s very serious to conflate anorexia with the thinness of models and it ignores the fact that anorexia is a psychogenic illness,\u201d Isabelle Saint-Felix, secretary general of Synam, which represents around 40 modelling agencies in France, told AFP.In France, an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 people \u2013 almost all of them adolescents \u2013 suffer from anorexia nervosa, an eating disorder with a high mortality rate.", "tags": ["France", "Fashion", "Models", "Life and style", "Europe", "World news", "Health"], "title": "Models in France must provide doctor's note to work"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:17:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has banned the import of lion heads, paws and skins as hunters\u2019 trophies, nearly four months after the killing of Zimbabwe\u2019s most famous lion by an American trophy hunter sparked international outrage.In a letter to the actor and animals rights activist Brigitte Bardot, France\u2019s environment minister, S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, said that she had instructed officials to stop issuing permits for lion trophies and was considering stricter controls on trophies from other species.\u201cFollowing your letter and recent visits in Africa in preparation of the climate summit in Paris, I want to let you know I have given orders to my services to stop delivering certificates for importing lion trophies,\u201d Royal wrote in the letter dated 12 November.\u201cConcerning other species trophies, I am in favour of a much stronger control for hunting trophies and this issue will be discussed with all the countries concerned and with the EU.\u201dIn July, conservationists and MEPs called for an EU-wide ban on the import of lion trophies following the death of Cecil the lion at the hands of a Minnesotan dentist near one of Zimbabwe\u2019s national parks. France is the first EU state to implement such a ban. In March, Australia also banned their import.Between 2010 and the 2013, the last year for which data is available, more than 100 such lion trophies were imported to France. Lionaid, a UK-based charity that is calling for the UK to follow suit with a ban on lion trophy imports, said it was \u201coverjoyed\u201d by the move. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWithin the EU, France was a major importer of such trophies and we expect that wild lions will now find themselves safer without the presence of French trophy hunters.\u201cWe trust that France\u2019s decision will create a domino effect within the EU and that we will soon hear about other member states joining together to say no [to trophies].\u201dCatherine Bearder, a Liberal Democrat MEP who led calls for a ban in the summer, said was \u201cdelighted\u201d by France\u2019s decision and the UK should follow its lead.The EU\u2019s scientific review group, which decides whether or not to blacklist trophy imports based on the sustainability of species, met in September and approved the continued import of lion trophies from Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique.Last month, scientists warned that lion numbers in central and western Africa are likely to halve in the next two decades due to loss of habitat and prey.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Cecil the lion", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Endangered species", "Animals", "Conservation"], "title": "France bans imports of lion hunt trophies"},{"date": "2015-10-18T23:50:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has launched an unprecedented diplomatic drive to shepherd nations big and small towards a major climate change deal, ahead of a Paris summit next month that is the next major make-or-break moment for the movement against global warming.Every one of France\u2019s ambassadors, in embassies and consulates around the globe, has been educated on the demands of climate change, and instructed in how to communicate the messages to the governments they deal with, ahead of the summit, which starts on 30 November.Ambassadors have been holding public events, private meetings, talks with their diplomatic counterparts, businesses, NGOs and even schoolchildren. At home, the outer walls of the foreign ministry, a stately 19th-century edifice on the banks of the Seine, are covered in a series of banners declaring, in several languages, the messages of Paris Climat 2015. Even the Eiffel Tower, further down the riverbank, has been pressed into service, lit up at night with climate slogans.Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the president of France, has been visiting world leaders for the past year, urging them to come to Paris. Laurent Fabius, foreign minister, who will be in charge of the talks, has made it his mission, with a punishing schedule of events and public speaking. S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, environment minister and co-host, has also been touring capitals and conferences. Related: Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks Climate diplomacy has never seen such a concerted push.\u201cIt\u2019s a top priority for our diplomacy. All our ambassadors are fully mobilised, all around the world,\u201d Sylvie Bermann, the French ambassador to the UK, told the Guardian. She has hosted a series of public seminars and events in the UK, with one forthcoming on climate change and refugees. The embassy itself has also taken on the green message, with her new official car a hybrid Peugeot 508 \u2013 a French manufacturer, of course.Even in countries such as India and Poland where, Bermann said \u201cthere might be more fisticuffs\u201d over climate change, the embassies have been engaging governments, and in China, where she was posted before coming to London \u2013 she is a fluent Chinese speaker \u2013 she notes a major push involving government and NGOs. Care has been taken to involve public opinion, too: there has even been a boat, the research vessel Tara, sponsored by the French fashion brand Agn\u00e8s B, that has toured the US, London, Scandinavia and other regions before coming home to France.A special ambassador has been appointed, Laurence Tubiana, who has also embarked on a whirlwind tour of capitals and dignitaries. With three months to go before the conference, France\u2019s ambassadors were lectured by Ban Ki-moon, UN secretary-general, who also has a big stake in the success of Paris, having presided over the previous conference in Copenhagen in 2009 that was widely derided as a failure, as it collapsed into scenes of chaos in the final hours.\u201cFor Hollande\u2019s administration, this is not just about the climate: it is about the government\u2019s political survival,\u201d one prominent global official told the Guardian. \u201cThey need this to be a success, to have something to celebrate, as they\u2019re in trouble in so many other areas of politics.\u201dAt the two-week summit, governments will meet under the auspices of the United Nations in the first attempt for six years to forge a new global agreement on climate change. COP21, as it is known in the jargon, is seen as a make-or-break conference, the last chance for the two-decades-old UN process to bring nations together to tackle what many scientists regard as the biggest single threat to humanity.This week, governments will gather in Bonn for the last chance before the Paris conference to amend the text of the potential agreement. Previous such meetings have produced little progress, however.For Hollande, whose low poll ratings have seen him become the most unpopular French president on record, securing a climate change deal is crucial for his reputation at home. France, marked by high unemployment and economic sluggishness, will go to the polls in regional elections while the climate talks are wrapping up in December, in two rounds on 6 and 13 December. Hollande, who still hopes to run for the presidency in 2017, will seek to use any successful deal to boost his standing.Will the climate diplomacy succeed? Elements of an agreement are slowly falling into place. Most countries, including all the biggest economies, have now submitted plans on their emissions to come into force after 2020, when current commitments expire. The US and China, the two biggest emitters, made a joint announcement on their emissions, for the first time, in a marked show of unity.But there is still no guarantee of success, and France has tried hard to learn the lessons of Copenhagen. Although a \u201cpolitical declaration\u201d was signed at that summit in 2009, with major developed and developing countries jointly agreeing emissions targets for the first time, it did not amount to the formal treaty that many had hoped for. That omission, and scenes in which delegates burst into tears, appeared to show world leaders did not know what was going on, and bitter public recriminations showed off all the fault lines among nations, allowed detractors to claim it as a resounding failure.Many things will be different this time, Tubiana has promised. For instance, at Copenhagen the text of a potential deal was in tatters, too unwieldy to produce a formal treaty. The text for Paris has been slimmed down to just over 20 pages, in a move the hosts hope will make it possible to sign it off in the two weeks of talks. World leaders, who arrived only at the end of Copenhagen, will land in Paris for the first day of talks, then hand over to their ministers and negotiators.Another key question is over financial assistance from richer to poorer countries. At Copenhagen, the developing world was promised $100bn (\u00a365bn) a year would flow to them by 2020. Significant progress has been made on this, not least at the World Bank meeting last week, where its president announced a $29bn increase in climate finance.French diplomats have also been at pains to include civil society groups and businesses at a high level. Civil society groups were excluded from the final fraught day at Copenhagen, to their manifest disgust, which did not help how that conference was portrayed afterwards.\u201cThe French have done an excellent job,\u201d says Christiana Figueres, the UN\u2019s climate chief, who has also been persuading world leaders to participate. \u201cThey have made a great effort.\u201dMost of the world\u2019s biggest economies have now publicly declared they want a deal. However, at the UN talks, small and desperately poor countries have just as much say as the richest. They may not be so happy to oblige.\u201cThe biggest problem with Paris is that it is in Paris,\u201d one prominent participant told the Guardian privately, meaning that holding such a major meeting in a G7 country risks alienating poor nations, who often feel that their interests are overlooked in the race to get big economies to commit.The French can hardly help the location, and appear conscious of the need to draw in a broader coalition, sometimes using their historic ties to the French-speaking and French-influenced countries of Africa and Asia \u2013 a strategy that could backfire, given the colonial overtones. But the charm offensive continued with President Hollande visiting Morocco recently. \u201cWe have a close cooperation with the Moroccans,\u201d says Bermann. \u201cI know there have been some problems but now cooperation is excellent so we\u2019re keen to work with them.\u201dIf Paris succeeds, it will not be down only to the French government and its troupes of ministers, civil servants, ambassadors and negotiators. But if it fails, the French and the UN know they will cop the blame.Additional reporting by Angelique Chrisafis in Paris", "tags": ["Global climate talks", "France", "Environment", "Climate change", "World news", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Europe", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "France launches global drive for climate deal"},{"date": "2015-10-09T10:27:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "Although born and bred in Yorkshire, I\u2019ve been snowboarding for almost 20 years and moved to the Portes du Soleil just over a year ago. Spread over 14 valleys between Mont Blanc and Lake Geneva, it\u2019s one of the world\u2019s largest ski areas and a great place to live. I chose Morzine because we used to train in the halfpipe there and I made friends and contacts who started businesses and made lives here.The Mutzig Challenge at Bar Robinson is one of several urban myths (or true stories) about what people get up to here. Mutzig is a 5.5% beer best enjoyed in halves, but the challenge is to drink 10 pints. Not many people have walked away from this feat \u2013 at least not in a straight line.Triathalons are bad enough in the UK, but in the \u201cMorzine to Chamonix triathlon of discomfort\u201d the swim is done in a melt-water lake and the run and cycle are through the Alps.One of my favourite runs is the Satellite \u2013 an easy hike and a mellow off-piste run. In such a large ski resort, there\u2019s a lot for everyone, from beginners to advanced skiers and snowboarders, and a lot of snow miles to be had. And you can ski or snowboard down the streets of Avoriaz in the winter. Related: Splitboarding in Chamonix: fresh terrain for grown-up snowboarders Avoriaz and Morzine get very busy during school holidays. They\u2019re on the French side of the lake, and easy to get to: a 90-minute drive from Geneva airport and one of the shortest drives from the UK. So I\u2019d buy a full-area pass and take on the whole circuit, which fills a day and takes you far from the crowds. Champ\u00e9ry, over the border in Switzerland, is much quieter, and feasible as a family day trip on the lifts.The \u201changover reset\u201d is the best reason to visit the mountains \u2013 aside from the fresh air and scenery. So long as you are able to get up and out, the cold air in your face on the first run of the day blows the cobwebs away and means you skip that hangover. Better than sweating it out on a beach in 30C.The Nico Droz road gap is a terrifying \u201cleap of faith\u201d snowboard jump. You jump off a 30ft-high platform and over a piste, landing on the other side and riding out over frozen Lake Avoriaz. First taken on by legendary French rider Nico Droz, and attempted by few others since then, the jump is easily seen from around the resort and looks a hell of a lot bigger in real life than it does on video.The heated terrace and wide beer selection at La Marmotte D\u2019Or make it perfect for enjoying the last rays of sun after a hard day on the hill. It often has live music and I\u2019ve been known to spin a few tunes there myself. In the winter, I DJ with my friend on Tuesdays at Op\u00e9ra, one of two clubs in Morzine.British people get a bit wild on their holidays. Last season\u2019s Rock the Pistes festival up on the mountain, featured Babyshambles and the Klaxons. Everyone got hammered in the afternoon and after the festival, everyone rode down. Even the bands borrowed skis and went down in jeans.For dinner, I\u2019d recommend an \u201call-you-can-eat meat treat\u201d at L\u2019Etale in the middle of Morzine. The restaurant is Savoyard style, serving cheese, meat and red wine in various combinations and cooked at the table, either on a raclette grill or, as they do with the steak, on a pierre chaude (hot stone).I have spent winters in the mountains since I was 16. It took me three tries to get to the Olympics and missing out twice was hard, but it taught me to deal with setbacks. I\u2019ve also travelled all over the world for qualifying events, so it hasn\u2019t been all bad.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Snowboarding", "Skiing holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Olympic snowboarder Dom Harington on Morzine, France"},{"date": "2015-10-06T11:20:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "A violent Air France protest in which striking workers stormed a board meeting and ripped the shirts from executives\u2019 backs has been denounced by Fran\u00e7ois Hollande as unacceptable and bad for France\u2019s image.After pictures of bare-chested executives fleeing over a fence with their clothes torn to shreds made front pages across the world, the French president said: \u201cSocial dialogue matters, and when it\u2019s interrupted by violence and disputes take on an unacceptable form, it can have consequences for the image and attractiveness [of the country].\u201dHollande called for responsible talks between management and union leaders and compromise and negotiation at France\u2019s loss-making carrier. The troubled airline, which employs 52,000 people, is struggling to compete with its global rivals and is finalising a controversial restructuring plan involving 2,900 redundancies \u2013 1,700 ground staff, 900 cabin crew and 300 pilots \u2013 between now and 2017.Earlier, the French transport minister, Alain Vidalies, said the images of an Air France human resources manager with his shirt ripped off amounted to a caricature of France that was unhelpful to the airline\u2019s future. \u201cI think the best French response would be to respond to those abroad who see a caricature, that these events are not France, and that we can get back on track by talking.\u201d Related: Air France protests \u2013 in pictures  He said there was no question of renationalisation for the airline. \u201cIt\u2019s not the taxpayer who is going to pay.\u201d The French state holds a 17% stake in the airline.A legal investigation has been opened after Air France lodged a complaint over aggravated violence, saying seven people were injured, including a security guard who was seriously hurt.Air France-KLM\u2019s human resources manager, Xavier Broseta, had his shirt ripped off and, wearing just his tie and trousers, had to clamber over a wire fence to safety after hundreds of striking workers stormed the board meeting on Monday in protest at the planned job cuts. Another executive, Pierre Plissonnier, who is responsible for the long-haul flight division, had his shirt and jacket torn.", "tags": ["Air France/KLM", "France", "Paris", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Unions", "Protest", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "Air France protest scenes unacceptable, says Hollande"},{"date": "2015-12-23T11:15:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "A terror suspect who decapitated his boss and took a selfie with the head and flags covered in Islamic writings has killed himself while in prison awaiting trial.Yassin Salhi, 35, had also tried to blow up an industrial gas factory by driving his car at a pile of inflammable bottles before he was arrested in June. He was formally put under investigation \u2013 the French equivalent of being charged \u2013 for \u201cmurder as part of a terrorist operation, kidnapping and imprisoning with a view to murder, wilful destruction and violence\u201d.Salhi always denied any terrorist connection, claiming he had cracked after falling out with his employer at a transport company. He was accused of kidnapping Herv\u00e9 Cornara two days after a quarrel, strangling him and cutting off his head with a knife. Related: France beheading: suspect had Isis links and terrorist motive, says prosecutor Before placing the head on the gates of the Air Products factory at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, south-east of Lyon, Salhi took a photograph of himself with his victim, which he allegedly sent to a friend fighting in Syria. Two flags hung nearby were inscribed with the shahada: the Muslim profession of faith and the first of the five pillars of Islam. He then drove his car into the factory and attempted to blow it up by smashing the vehicle into a pile of gas bottles.Before being arrested, police claim he shouted \u201cAllahu Akbar\u201d.Salhi, a father-of-three, was being held in solitary confinement, but was not considered a suicide risk.The Paris public prosecutor, Fran\u00e7ois Molins, under whose jurisdiction Salhi was transferred, told journalists the attack \u201cexactly corresponded to Daesh [Islamic State] orders\u201d, particularly the fact that the accused man had attempted to obtain \u201cmaximum publicity\u201d for his act.Cornara\u2019s widow, Laurence, told radio station Europe 1 she was angry. She said: \u201cI don\u2019t understand how this could have happened. It\u2019s not normal.\u201dShe added: \u201cI was waiting with impatience to find myself face to face with him [in court], to look him in the eye. He was a coward and he would be a coward to the end.\u201d\u2022 In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countries can be found here.", "tags": ["France", "Islamic State", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France beheading: terror suspect kills himself in prison"},{"date": "2015-12-18T00:42:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "Models working in France will need a medical certificate proving they are healthy and not dangerously thin under a new law approved by French MPs.Failure to provide a certificate will be punishable by up to six months in jail and a fine of \u20ac75,000 (around \u00a354,500).The bill also forces magazines to flag up photographs that have been \u201ctouched up\u201d or Photoshopped.The tough new legislation is aimed at combating the growing problem of anorexia in models and rising numbers of young people with eating disorders. Related: From social media to the catwalk, is fantasy beauty failing young women? The measures were adopted as part of a new health bill on Thursday. Models will have to provide employers with a doctor\u2019s certificate confirming that \u201cthe state of health of the model, assessed with regard to her body mass index (BMI), is compatible with the exercise of her profession\u201d.However, French MPs rejected a clause in an earlier draft of the bill imposing a minimum BMI \u2013 measured according to height and weight \u2013 on those working in the fashion and advertising industry.Parliamentarians instead agreed to let doctors make the call on whether a model is too thin, taking into account a range of criteria, including age, gender and body shape.Published photographs of models that have been modified \u201cin order to narrow or widen the silhouette\u201d should be labelled as \u201cphotograph touched up\u201d. Those who failed to comply could face a fine of up to \u20ac37,500 , or 30% of the value of the advert featuring the model.An earlier version of the bill also made it an offence punishable by up to a year\u2019s imprisonment to encourage excessive thinness, a measure aimed at \u201cpro-ana\u201d websites that extol or promote anorexia or bulimia. Related: Ban underfed and underage models in fashion, MPs urged That proposal too was excised from the text adopted by the national assembly, or lower house of parliament.Catherine Lemorton, president of the government\u2019s social affairs committee, said many of those who ran such sites \u201csuffered themselves with eating problems\u201d and might be damaged further by the threat of prison.When the law was first introduced to the house in April this year, Marie-Rose Moro, a psychoanalyst and psychiatrist, said the law would solve nothing. \u201cIt would be better to provide more resources to care for anorexic patients,\u201d she said, adding that there should be \u201cmore awareness to eating disorders in society\u201d.Modelling agencies also attacked the law. \u201cIt\u2019s very serious to conflate anorexia with the thinness of models and it ignores the fact that anorexia is a psychogenic illness,\u201d Isabelle Saint-Felix, secretary general of Synam, which represents around 40 modelling agencies in France, told AFP.In France, an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 people \u2013 almost all of them adolescents \u2013 suffer from anorexia nervosa, an eating disorder with a high mortality rate.", "tags": ["France", "Fashion", "Models", "Life and style", "Europe", "World news", "Health"], "title": "Models in France must provide doctor's note to work"},{"date": "2015-12-04T19:44:11Z", "country": "france", "content": "It\u2019s no surprise that Britain\u2019s decision to extend its military efforts against Islamic State with airstrikes in Syria has been met with a sigh of relief in France. It was appreciated both as a vindication of Fran\u00e7ois Hollande\u2019s strategy of reaching out to allies after the Paris attacks, and as a welcome break from what had been perceived in recent years as a worrying British strategic withdrawal from European security issues. Related: Most British Muslims oppose airstrikes in Syria \u2013 and here\u2019s why | Miqdaad Versi From a French perspective, that was starkly illustrated by Britain\u2019s refusal to join airstrikes in Syria in 2013, at a time when the chances of getting President Assad to the negotiating table were possibly at their highest. However, where to go from here is now the key question.There is no escaping the fact that the UK and France are two medium-sized powers with constrained resources. On their own, the influence they can bring to bear on the Middle East has its limits. As the US vice-president, Joe Biden, said recently to reporters: \u201cWe [the US] have been doing it all, basically.\u201d How the two European nations manage to frame the campaign against Isis \u2013 a danger that is international and domestic \u2013 will go a long way to defining whether the continent can pull out of its doldrums and build itself up as a global force.The backdrop to this is that America\u2019s commitment to European security has altered as it focuses on other, mostly Asian, issues. Asking how Britain\u2019s decision to strike in Syria can affect the overall picture in fact raises the question of what Europe\u2019s impact can be. Breaking out of nationally focused debates on strategy, however passionate, appears urgent. Europe\u2019s crises are all interconnected: the violence and radicalisation spewing out of the Middle East, the rise of populist movements, the difficulties in addressing the refugee crisis, and the growing assertiveness of Russia. For a while now, Germany has come across as the natural leader on many issues. But European security is an area where France and Britain could have greater influence.Building up European momentum on the Middle East, relative to the US, is of course a tall order. One step forward was taken this week, when the Bundestag authorised German participation in the air campaign in Syria, through refuelling and reconnaissance flights. Although this doesn\u2019t include airstrikes, it is the first time since the second world war that Germany has committed to offensive military operations outside Europe and outside a Nato framework.When French MPs discussed Syria, it was clear they weren\u2019t inhibited by past toxic mistakesInvolving more European countries in the anti-Isis strategy makes sense, if only to avoid reigniting the legacy of the colonial era and all the suspicions still attached to it. Memories of Franco-British alliances in the Middle East include episodes such as the 1916 Sykes-Picot agreement, which carved up the Ottoman empire, and the disastrous 1956 Suez expedition.But if there is one huge difference between the way the French and the British approach Middle Eastern affairs, it comes from the fallout over the 2003 Iraq invasion \u2013 a conflict mentioned several times during the House of Commons debate this week. France vigorously opposed that war.When the French MPs discussed Syria one week earlier (with an overwhelming majority of 515 votes for prolonging airstrikes, and only four against), it was clear they weren\u2019t inhibited by past toxic mistakes. The ruling Socialist party has shown no qualms about military action \u2013 as opposed to Britain\u2019s tortured Labour party, still traumatised by Tony Blair\u2019s alignment with George Bush.The wider European picture also means that fighting radicalisation and \u201cforeign fighter\u201d networks should not entail just police and intelligence cooperation, but also shared experiences on how to create better inclusiveness for Muslim populations.After the 7/7 bombings in London, many French commentators waxed heavily about the limits of British multiculturalism and London\u2019s \u201cexcessive tolerance\u201d of radical Islamist groups in the 90s. After the Charlie Hebdo tragedy, and now Paris, just as many comments were made in Britain about France\u2019s brand of secularism and its disenfranchised second- or third- generation immigrant youth. Surely it might help for French and British civil society organisations to come together, rather than attack each other\u2019s models?Getting the balance right between fighting the external dimension of Isis (its self-proclaimed caliphate in Syria-Iraq) and countering its internal dimension in Europe (its terror cells and ideology) will be essential. That can happen only if Europe together thinks more strategically about its security and domestic challenges. Related: Hilary Benn\u2019s speech on Syria could transform Labour | Martin Kettle The European Union can, if it acts together, put pressure on Turkey, Iran and others to address the complex diplomatic issue of finding a settlement in Syria. Together, also, it should reflect on how to balance domestic security with fundamental values (instead of individual nations rushing to adopt ever more repressive legislation).The Paris attacks were a watershed: Europe\u2019s stability and safety have been dramatically challenged. To its east, Russia and Ukraine; and to its south, the Middle East, and jihadi groups in North Africa, where Libya is key.The British vote for airstrikes shouldn\u2019t be seen as just a gesture towards an old ally, after France called for help \u2013 however important that was. It should be the start of a collective security awakening for Europe.Describing Isis as a new fascism that democracies must crush is a strong, compelling argument. But because the Middle East is so close and connected to us, that fight needs to be seen as European \u2013 not just B ritish and French.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "France", "UK news", "Syria", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "On security, Britain and France can be leaders of Europe | Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de"},{"date": "2015-12-05T07:00:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "At the centre of the Grand Tourmalet ski area in the French Pyrenees, purpose-built La Mongie is defiantly 1970s in style and appearance, which won\u2019t appeal to everybody. But the resort sits among imposing peaks that culminate in the 2,877-metre Pic du Midi de Bigorre, whose summit observatory looks every bit the lair of a James Bond villain. Fly to Pau (1\u00bd hours away), Toulouse or Biarritz (both 2\u00bd hours away). The nearest railway station is at Lourdes.With a quirky vibe, and prices considerably cheaper than the Alps, La Mongie offers a very varied range of skiing. It\u2019s basically an open bowl that\u2019s great for families and intermediates, and there\u2019s challenging off-piste skiing. For gentler skiing, the neighbouring resort of Bar\u00e8ges is a pretty and authentic mountain village, below tree-lined slopes. La Mongie sits at 1,800m but there is skiing down to 1,250m and up to 2,500m and it\u2019s pretty snow sure.The Pic du Midi can be accessed by cable car from the centre of town, and from its summit there are various challenging descents for confident skiers and snow boarders. It\u2019s worth anyone\u2019s while to ride up to the observatory for the panorama, which stretches from Catalonia to the Basque Country. Freeriders will love not just the Pic du Midi but also the surprisingly large array of side- and backcountry terrain. For intermediates there is an enticing selection of often sunny, uncrowded pistes (the long, blue-graded Bergers is a classic). The more than adequate selection of beginners\u2019 slopes are easily accessible in the centre of La Mongie. And the wide, open blue runs off the Col du Tourmalet are on the iconic Tour de France route come summer.There\u2019s not a huge amount to see or do in La Mongie itself, but 30 minutes down the hill is the attractive spa town of Bagn\u00e8res-de-Bigorre with one of the best spas in the French Pyrenees in the form of Aquensis (two hours \u20ac17.50). The naturally heated swimming pool (complete with waterfalls, chutes and jets) is a great place to relax after a few days\u2019 energetic skiing, and there\u2019s also a wellness centre and gym.The bar at Le Schuss in the centre of town is always busy, or check out the friendly L\u2019Igloo, which is popular with locals, although its small size means it can be a bit jammed at times.Just outside La Mongie is one of the area\u2019s best mountain restaurants, L\u2019Etape du Berger. It\u2019s now run by Eric Abadie, a bear of a man whose father-in-law started the restaurant in 1969. Meats used in the kitchen come from animals that graze the sunny mountain slopes in summer.The observatory offers pricey stays in single or double rooms. The \u20ac399 for two price includes dinner, breakfast, a tour of the observatory, incredible sunsets and jaw-dropping views (no Bond villain, though). In recent years the region has seen excellent snowfalls, and because most of the accommodation in La Mongie is ski in/ski out, it\u2019s a good choice for those who like to spend most of their holiday actually skiing. H\u00f4tel Cr\u00e8te Blanche (doubles from \u20ac84 room-only) remains a classic of 1970s style: all that\u2019s needed to complete the picture is Brigitte Bardot and Serge Gainsbourg sipping martinis in the bar, clad in tight ski pants and sucking on Gauloises. It\u2019s not the classic chocolate box mountain hotel, but still an authentic piece of French ski culture. Or try online specialist Pyrenees Collection (pyreneescollection.co.uk). A week self-catering in a two-bedroom flat in R\u00e9sidence Le Pic du Midi costs from \u00a3685, including Eurotunnel crossing.100km of pistes in La Mongie and Bar\u00e8ges, served by 32 lifts. Highest altitude 2,500mGood for budget skiers, beginners, intermediates, and freeriders looking for a challengeCostsLift pass adult from \u20ac170 for six days, child from \u20ac150Beer \u20ac5\u2022 Green runs 17\u2022 Blue runs 24\u2022 Red runs 21\u2022 Black runs 6Limitations Not much nightlife, and not everyone will appreciate the 1970s architecture", "tags": ["Ski resorts", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "France holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great little ski resorts: La Mongie, France"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:17:00Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has banned the import of lion heads, paws and skins as hunters\u2019 trophies, nearly four months after the killing of Zimbabwe\u2019s most famous lion by an American trophy hunter sparked international outrage.In a letter to the actor and animals rights activist Brigitte Bardot, France\u2019s environment minister, S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, said that she had instructed officials to stop issuing permits for lion trophies and was considering stricter controls on trophies from other species.\u201cFollowing your letter and recent visits in Africa in preparation of the climate summit in Paris, I want to let you know I have given orders to my services to stop delivering certificates for importing lion trophies,\u201d Royal wrote in the letter dated 12 November.\u201cConcerning other species trophies, I am in favour of a much stronger control for hunting trophies and this issue will be discussed with all the countries concerned and with the EU.\u201dIn July, conservationists and MEPs called for an EU-wide ban on the import of lion trophies following the death of Cecil the lion at the hands of a Minnesotan dentist near one of Zimbabwe\u2019s national parks. France is the first EU state to implement such a ban. In March, Australia also banned their import.Between 2010 and the 2013, the last year for which data is available, more than 100 such lion trophies were imported to France. Lionaid, a UK-based charity that is calling for the UK to follow suit with a ban on lion trophy imports, said it was \u201coverjoyed\u201d by the move. A spokeswoman said: \u201cWithin the EU, France was a major importer of such trophies and we expect that wild lions will now find themselves safer without the presence of French trophy hunters.\u201cWe trust that France\u2019s decision will create a domino effect within the EU and that we will soon hear about other member states joining together to say no [to trophies].\u201dCatherine Bearder, a Liberal Democrat MEP who led calls for a ban in the summer, said was \u201cdelighted\u201d by France\u2019s decision and the UK should follow its lead.The EU\u2019s scientific review group, which decides whether or not to blacklist trophy imports based on the sustainability of species, met in September and approved the continued import of lion trophies from Tanzania, Zambia and Mozambique.Last month, scientists warned that lion numbers in central and western Africa are likely to halve in the next two decades due to loss of habitat and prey.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Cecil the lion", "Environment", "France", "Europe", "World news", "Endangered species", "Animals", "Conservation"], "title": "France bans imports of lion hunt trophies"},{"date": "2015-10-18T23:50:37Z", "country": "france", "content": "France has launched an unprecedented diplomatic drive to shepherd nations big and small towards a major climate change deal, ahead of a Paris summit next month that is the next major make-or-break moment for the movement against global warming.Every one of France\u2019s ambassadors, in embassies and consulates around the globe, has been educated on the demands of climate change, and instructed in how to communicate the messages to the governments they deal with, ahead of the summit, which starts on 30 November.Ambassadors have been holding public events, private meetings, talks with their diplomatic counterparts, businesses, NGOs and even schoolchildren. At home, the outer walls of the foreign ministry, a stately 19th-century edifice on the banks of the Seine, are covered in a series of banners declaring, in several languages, the messages of Paris Climat 2015. Even the Eiffel Tower, further down the riverbank, has been pressed into service, lit up at night with climate slogans.Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, the president of France, has been visiting world leaders for the past year, urging them to come to Paris. Laurent Fabius, foreign minister, who will be in charge of the talks, has made it his mission, with a punishing schedule of events and public speaking. S\u00e9gol\u00e8ne Royal, environment minister and co-host, has also been touring capitals and conferences. Related: Everything you need to know about the Paris climate summit and UN talks Climate diplomacy has never seen such a concerted push.\u201cIt\u2019s a top priority for our diplomacy. All our ambassadors are fully mobilised, all around the world,\u201d Sylvie Bermann, the French ambassador to the UK, told the Guardian. She has hosted a series of public seminars and events in the UK, with one forthcoming on climate change and refugees. The embassy itself has also taken on the green message, with her new official car a hybrid Peugeot 508 \u2013 a French manufacturer, of course.Even in countries such as India and Poland where, Bermann said \u201cthere might be more fisticuffs\u201d over climate change, the embassies have been engaging governments, and in China, where she was posted before coming to London \u2013 she is a fluent Chinese speaker \u2013 she notes a major push involving government and NGOs. Care has been taken to involve public opinion, too: there has even been a boat, the research vessel Tara, sponsored by the French fashion brand Agn\u00e8s B, that has toured the US, London, Scandinavia and other regions before coming home to France.A special ambassador has been appointed, Laurence Tubiana, who has also embarked on a whirlwind tour of capitals and dignitaries. With three months to go before the conference, France\u2019s ambassadors were lectured by Ban Ki-moon, UN secretary-general, who also has a big stake in the success of Paris, having presided over the previous conference in Copenhagen in 2009 that was widely derided as a failure, as it collapsed into scenes of chaos in the final hours.\u201cFor Hollande\u2019s administration, this is not just about the climate: it is about the government\u2019s political survival,\u201d one prominent global official told the Guardian. \u201cThey need this to be a success, to have something to celebrate, as they\u2019re in trouble in so many other areas of politics.\u201dAt the two-week summit, governments will meet under the auspices of the United Nations in the first attempt for six years to forge a new global agreement on climate change. COP21, as it is known in the jargon, is seen as a make-or-break conference, the last chance for the two-decades-old UN process to bring nations together to tackle what many scientists regard as the biggest single threat to humanity.This week, governments will gather in Bonn for the last chance before the Paris conference to amend the text of the potential agreement. Previous such meetings have produced little progress, however.For Hollande, whose low poll ratings have seen him become the most unpopular French president on record, securing a climate change deal is crucial for his reputation at home. France, marked by high unemployment and economic sluggishness, will go to the polls in regional elections while the climate talks are wrapping up in December, in two rounds on 6 and 13 December. Hollande, who still hopes to run for the presidency in 2017, will seek to use any successful deal to boost his standing.Will the climate diplomacy succeed? Elements of an agreement are slowly falling into place. Most countries, including all the biggest economies, have now submitted plans on their emissions to come into force after 2020, when current commitments expire. The US and China, the two biggest emitters, made a joint announcement on their emissions, for the first time, in a marked show of unity.But there is still no guarantee of success, and France has tried hard to learn the lessons of Copenhagen. Although a \u201cpolitical declaration\u201d was signed at that summit in 2009, with major developed and developing countries jointly agreeing emissions targets for the first time, it did not amount to the formal treaty that many had hoped for. That omission, and scenes in which delegates burst into tears, appeared to show world leaders did not know what was going on, and bitter public recriminations showed off all the fault lines among nations, allowed detractors to claim it as a resounding failure.Many things will be different this time, Tubiana has promised. For instance, at Copenhagen the text of a potential deal was in tatters, too unwieldy to produce a formal treaty. The text for Paris has been slimmed down to just over 20 pages, in a move the hosts hope will make it possible to sign it off in the two weeks of talks. World leaders, who arrived only at the end of Copenhagen, will land in Paris for the first day of talks, then hand over to their ministers and negotiators.Another key question is over financial assistance from richer to poorer countries. At Copenhagen, the developing world was promised $100bn (\u00a365bn) a year would flow to them by 2020. Significant progress has been made on this, not least at the World Bank meeting last week, where its president announced a $29bn increase in climate finance.French diplomats have also been at pains to include civil society groups and businesses at a high level. Civil society groups were excluded from the final fraught day at Copenhagen, to their manifest disgust, which did not help how that conference was portrayed afterwards.\u201cThe French have done an excellent job,\u201d says Christiana Figueres, the UN\u2019s climate chief, who has also been persuading world leaders to participate. \u201cThey have made a great effort.\u201dMost of the world\u2019s biggest economies have now publicly declared they want a deal. However, at the UN talks, small and desperately poor countries have just as much say as the richest. They may not be so happy to oblige.\u201cThe biggest problem with Paris is that it is in Paris,\u201d one prominent participant told the Guardian privately, meaning that holding such a major meeting in a G7 country risks alienating poor nations, who often feel that their interests are overlooked in the race to get big economies to commit.The French can hardly help the location, and appear conscious of the need to draw in a broader coalition, sometimes using their historic ties to the French-speaking and French-influenced countries of Africa and Asia \u2013 a strategy that could backfire, given the colonial overtones. But the charm offensive continued with President Hollande visiting Morocco recently. \u201cWe have a close cooperation with the Moroccans,\u201d says Bermann. \u201cI know there have been some problems but now cooperation is excellent so we\u2019re keen to work with them.\u201dIf Paris succeeds, it will not be down only to the French government and its troupes of ministers, civil servants, ambassadors and negotiators. But if it fails, the French and the UN know they will cop the blame.Additional reporting by Angelique Chrisafis in Paris", "tags": ["Global climate talks", "France", "Environment", "Climate change", "World news", "COP 21: UN climate change conference | Paris", "Europe", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "France launches global drive for climate deal"},{"date": "2015-10-09T10:27:55Z", "country": "france", "content": "Although born and bred in Yorkshire, I\u2019ve been snowboarding for almost 20 years and moved to the Portes du Soleil just over a year ago. Spread over 14 valleys between Mont Blanc and Lake Geneva, it\u2019s one of the world\u2019s largest ski areas and a great place to live. I chose Morzine because we used to train in the halfpipe there and I made friends and contacts who started businesses and made lives here.The Mutzig Challenge at Bar Robinson is one of several urban myths (or true stories) about what people get up to here. Mutzig is a 5.5% beer best enjoyed in halves, but the challenge is to drink 10 pints. Not many people have walked away from this feat \u2013 at least not in a straight line.Triathalons are bad enough in the UK, but in the \u201cMorzine to Chamonix triathlon of discomfort\u201d the swim is done in a melt-water lake and the run and cycle are through the Alps.One of my favourite runs is the Satellite \u2013 an easy hike and a mellow off-piste run. In such a large ski resort, there\u2019s a lot for everyone, from beginners to advanced skiers and snowboarders, and a lot of snow miles to be had. And you can ski or snowboard down the streets of Avoriaz in the winter. Related: Splitboarding in Chamonix: fresh terrain for grown-up snowboarders Avoriaz and Morzine get very busy during school holidays. They\u2019re on the French side of the lake, and easy to get to: a 90-minute drive from Geneva airport and one of the shortest drives from the UK. So I\u2019d buy a full-area pass and take on the whole circuit, which fills a day and takes you far from the crowds. Champ\u00e9ry, over the border in Switzerland, is much quieter, and feasible as a family day trip on the lifts.The \u201changover reset\u201d is the best reason to visit the mountains \u2013 aside from the fresh air and scenery. So long as you are able to get up and out, the cold air in your face on the first run of the day blows the cobwebs away and means you skip that hangover. Better than sweating it out on a beach in 30C.The Nico Droz road gap is a terrifying \u201cleap of faith\u201d snowboard jump. You jump off a 30ft-high platform and over a piste, landing on the other side and riding out over frozen Lake Avoriaz. First taken on by legendary French rider Nico Droz, and attempted by few others since then, the jump is easily seen from around the resort and looks a hell of a lot bigger in real life than it does on video.The heated terrace and wide beer selection at La Marmotte D\u2019Or make it perfect for enjoying the last rays of sun after a hard day on the hill. It often has live music and I\u2019ve been known to spin a few tunes there myself. In the winter, I DJ with my friend on Tuesdays at Op\u00e9ra, one of two clubs in Morzine.British people get a bit wild on their holidays. Last season\u2019s Rock the Pistes festival up on the mountain, featured Babyshambles and the Klaxons. Everyone got hammered in the afternoon and after the festival, everyone rode down. Even the bands borrowed skis and went down in jeans.For dinner, I\u2019d recommend an \u201call-you-can-eat meat treat\u201d at L\u2019Etale in the middle of Morzine. The restaurant is Savoyard style, serving cheese, meat and red wine in various combinations and cooked at the table, either on a raclette grill or, as they do with the steak, on a pierre chaude (hot stone).I have spent winters in the mountains since I was 16. It took me three tries to get to the Olympics and missing out twice was hard, but it taught me to deal with setbacks. I\u2019ve also travelled all over the world for qualifying events, so it hasn\u2019t been all bad.", "tags": ["France holidays", "Alps holidays", "Snowboarding", "Skiing holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Olympic snowboarder Dom Harington on Morzine, France"},{"date": "2015-10-06T11:20:06Z", "country": "france", "content": "A violent Air France protest in which striking workers stormed a board meeting and ripped the shirts from executives\u2019 backs has been denounced by Fran\u00e7ois Hollande as unacceptable and bad for France\u2019s image.After pictures of bare-chested executives fleeing over a fence with their clothes torn to shreds made front pages across the world, the French president said: \u201cSocial dialogue matters, and when it\u2019s interrupted by violence and disputes take on an unacceptable form, it can have consequences for the image and attractiveness [of the country].\u201dHollande called for responsible talks between management and union leaders and compromise and negotiation at France\u2019s loss-making carrier. The troubled airline, which employs 52,000 people, is struggling to compete with its global rivals and is finalising a controversial restructuring plan involving 2,900 redundancies \u2013 1,700 ground staff, 900 cabin crew and 300 pilots \u2013 between now and 2017.Earlier, the French transport minister, Alain Vidalies, said the images of an Air France human resources manager with his shirt ripped off amounted to a caricature of France that was unhelpful to the airline\u2019s future. \u201cI think the best French response would be to respond to those abroad who see a caricature, that these events are not France, and that we can get back on track by talking.\u201d Related: Air France protests \u2013 in pictures  He said there was no question of renationalisation for the airline. \u201cIt\u2019s not the taxpayer who is going to pay.\u201d The French state holds a 17% stake in the airline.A legal investigation has been opened after Air France lodged a complaint over aggravated violence, saying seven people were injured, including a security guard who was seriously hurt.Air France-KLM\u2019s human resources manager, Xavier Broseta, had his shirt ripped off and, wearing just his tie and trousers, had to clamber over a wire fence to safety after hundreds of striking workers stormed the board meeting on Monday in protest at the planned job cuts. Another executive, Pierre Plissonnier, who is responsible for the long-haul flight division, had his shirt and jacket torn.", "tags": ["Air France/KLM", "France", "Paris", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Airline industry", "Unions", "Protest", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande"], "title": "Air France protest scenes unacceptable, says Hollande"},{"date": "2015-12-23T11:15:47Z", "country": "france", "content": "A terror suspect who decapitated his boss and took a selfie with the head and flags covered in Islamic writings has killed himself while in prison awaiting trial.Yassin Salhi, 35, had also tried to blow up an industrial gas factory by driving his car at a pile of inflammable bottles before he was arrested in June. He was formally put under investigation \u2013 the French equivalent of being charged \u2013 for \u201cmurder as part of a terrorist operation, kidnapping and imprisoning with a view to murder, wilful destruction and violence\u201d.Salhi always denied any terrorist connection, claiming he had cracked after falling out with his employer at a transport company. He was accused of kidnapping Herv\u00e9 Cornara two days after a quarrel, strangling him and cutting off his head with a knife. Related: France beheading: suspect had Isis links and terrorist motive, says prosecutor Before placing the head on the gates of the Air Products factory at Saint-Quentin-Fallavier, south-east of Lyon, Salhi took a photograph of himself with his victim, which he allegedly sent to a friend fighting in Syria. Two flags hung nearby were inscribed with the shahada: the Muslim profession of faith and the first of the five pillars of Islam. He then drove his car into the factory and attempted to blow it up by smashing the vehicle into a pile of gas bottles.Before being arrested, police claim he shouted \u201cAllahu Akbar\u201d.Salhi, a father-of-three, was being held in solitary confinement, but was not considered a suicide risk.The Paris public prosecutor, Fran\u00e7ois Molins, under whose jurisdiction Salhi was transferred, told journalists the attack \u201cexactly corresponded to Daesh [Islamic State] orders\u201d, particularly the fact that the accused man had attempted to obtain \u201cmaximum publicity\u201d for his act.Cornara\u2019s widow, Laurence, told radio station Europe 1 she was angry. She said: \u201cI don\u2019t understand how this could have happened. It\u2019s not normal.\u201dShe added: \u201cI was waiting with impatience to find myself face to face with him [in court], to look him in the eye. He was a coward and he would be a coward to the end.\u201d\u2022 In the UK, the Samaritans can be contacted on 116 123. In the US, the National Suicide Prevention Hotline is 1-800-273-8255. In Australia, the crisis support service Lifeline is on 13 11 14. Hotlines in other countries can be found here.", "tags": ["France", "Islamic State", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "France beheading: terror suspect kills himself in prison"},{"date": "2015-12-18T00:42:24Z", "country": "france", "content": "Models working in France will need a medical certificate proving they are healthy and not dangerously thin under a new law approved by French MPs.Failure to provide a certificate will be punishable by up to six months in jail and a fine of \u20ac75,000 (around \u00a354,500).The bill also forces magazines to flag up photographs that have been \u201ctouched up\u201d or Photoshopped.The tough new legislation is aimed at combating the growing problem of anorexia in models and rising numbers of young people with eating disorders. Related: From social media to the catwalk, is fantasy beauty failing young women? The measures were adopted as part of a new health bill on Thursday. Models will have to provide employers with a doctor\u2019s certificate confirming that \u201cthe state of health of the model, assessed with regard to her body mass index (BMI), is compatible with the exercise of her profession\u201d.However, French MPs rejected a clause in an earlier draft of the bill imposing a minimum BMI \u2013 measured according to height and weight \u2013 on those working in the fashion and advertising industry.Parliamentarians instead agreed to let doctors make the call on whether a model is too thin, taking into account a range of criteria, including age, gender and body shape.Published photographs of models that have been modified \u201cin order to narrow or widen the silhouette\u201d should be labelled as \u201cphotograph touched up\u201d. Those who failed to comply could face a fine of up to \u20ac37,500 , or 30% of the value of the advert featuring the model.An earlier version of the bill also made it an offence punishable by up to a year\u2019s imprisonment to encourage excessive thinness, a measure aimed at \u201cpro-ana\u201d websites that extol or promote anorexia or bulimia. Related: Ban underfed and underage models in fashion, MPs urged That proposal too was excised from the text adopted by the national assembly, or lower house of parliament.Catherine Lemorton, president of the government\u2019s social affairs committee, said many of those who ran such sites \u201csuffered themselves with eating problems\u201d and might be damaged further by the threat of prison.When the law was first introduced to the house in April this year, Marie-Rose Moro, a psychoanalyst and psychiatrist, said the law would solve nothing. \u201cIt would be better to provide more resources to care for anorexic patients,\u201d she said, adding that there should be \u201cmore awareness to eating disorders in society\u201d.Modelling agencies also attacked the law. \u201cIt\u2019s very serious to conflate anorexia with the thinness of models and it ignores the fact that anorexia is a psychogenic illness,\u201d Isabelle Saint-Felix, secretary general of Synam, which represents around 40 modelling agencies in France, told AFP.In France, an estimated 30,000 to 40,000 people \u2013 almost all of them adolescents \u2013 suffer from anorexia nervosa, an eating disorder with a high mortality rate.", "tags": ["France", "Fashion", "Models", "Life and style", "Europe", "World news", "Health"], "title": "Models in France must provide doctor's note to work"},{"date": "2015-12-04T19:44:11Z", "country": "france", "content": "It\u2019s no surprise that Britain\u2019s decision to extend its military efforts against Islamic State with airstrikes in Syria has been met with a sigh of relief in France. It was appreciated both as a vindication of Fran\u00e7ois Hollande\u2019s strategy of reaching out to allies after the Paris attacks, and as a welcome break from what had been perceived in recent years as a worrying British strategic withdrawal from European security issues. Related: Most British Muslims oppose airstrikes in Syria \u2013 and here\u2019s why | Miqdaad Versi From a French perspective, that was starkly illustrated by Britain\u2019s refusal to join airstrikes in Syria in 2013, at a time when the chances of getting President Assad to the negotiating table were possibly at their highest. However, where to go from here is now the key question.There is no escaping the fact that the UK and France are two medium-sized powers with constrained resources. On their own, the influence they can bring to bear on the Middle East has its limits. As the US vice-president, Joe Biden, said recently to reporters: \u201cWe [the US] have been doing it all, basically.\u201d How the two European nations manage to frame the campaign against Isis \u2013 a danger that is international and domestic \u2013 will go a long way to defining whether the continent can pull out of its doldrums and build itself up as a global force.The backdrop to this is that America\u2019s commitment to European security has altered as it focuses on other, mostly Asian, issues. Asking how Britain\u2019s decision to strike in Syria can affect the overall picture in fact raises the question of what Europe\u2019s impact can be. Breaking out of nationally focused debates on strategy, however passionate, appears urgent. Europe\u2019s crises are all interconnected: the violence and radicalisation spewing out of the Middle East, the rise of populist movements, the difficulties in addressing the refugee crisis, and the growing assertiveness of Russia. For a while now, Germany has come across as the natural leader on many issues. But European security is an area where France and Britain could have greater influence.Building up European momentum on the Middle East, relative to the US, is of course a tall order. One step forward was taken this week, when the Bundestag authorised German participation in the air campaign in Syria, through refuelling and reconnaissance flights. Although this doesn\u2019t include airstrikes, it is the first time since the second world war that Germany has committed to offensive military operations outside Europe and outside a Nato framework.When French MPs discussed Syria, it was clear they weren\u2019t inhibited by past toxic mistakesInvolving more European countries in the anti-Isis strategy makes sense, if only to avoid reigniting the legacy of the colonial era and all the suspicions still attached to it. Memories of Franco-British alliances in the Middle East include episodes such as the 1916 Sykes-Picot agreement, which carved up the Ottoman empire, and the disastrous 1956 Suez expedition.But if there is one huge difference between the way the French and the British approach Middle Eastern affairs, it comes from the fallout over the 2003 Iraq invasion \u2013 a conflict mentioned several times during the House of Commons debate this week. France vigorously opposed that war.When the French MPs discussed Syria one week earlier (with an overwhelming majority of 515 votes for prolonging airstrikes, and only four against), it was clear they weren\u2019t inhibited by past toxic mistakes. The ruling Socialist party has shown no qualms about military action \u2013 as opposed to Britain\u2019s tortured Labour party, still traumatised by Tony Blair\u2019s alignment with George Bush.The wider European picture also means that fighting radicalisation and \u201cforeign fighter\u201d networks should not entail just police and intelligence cooperation, but also shared experiences on how to create better inclusiveness for Muslim populations.After the 7/7 bombings in London, many French commentators waxed heavily about the limits of British multiculturalism and London\u2019s \u201cexcessive tolerance\u201d of radical Islamist groups in the 90s. After the Charlie Hebdo tragedy, and now Paris, just as many comments were made in Britain about France\u2019s brand of secularism and its disenfranchised second- or third- generation immigrant youth. Surely it might help for French and British civil society organisations to come together, rather than attack each other\u2019s models?Getting the balance right between fighting the external dimension of Isis (its self-proclaimed caliphate in Syria-Iraq) and countering its internal dimension in Europe (its terror cells and ideology) will be essential. That can happen only if Europe together thinks more strategically about its security and domestic challenges. Related: Hilary Benn\u2019s speech on Syria could transform Labour | Martin Kettle The European Union can, if it acts together, put pressure on Turkey, Iran and others to address the complex diplomatic issue of finding a settlement in Syria. Together, also, it should reflect on how to balance domestic security with fundamental values (instead of individual nations rushing to adopt ever more repressive legislation).The Paris attacks were a watershed: Europe\u2019s stability and safety have been dramatically challenged. To its east, Russia and Ukraine; and to its south, the Middle East, and jihadi groups in North Africa, where Libya is key.The British vote for airstrikes shouldn\u2019t be seen as just a gesture towards an old ally, after France called for help \u2013 however important that was. It should be the start of a collective security awakening for Europe.Describing Isis as a new fascism that democracies must crush is a strong, compelling argument. But because the Middle East is so close and connected to us, that fight needs to be seen as European \u2013 not just B ritish and French.", "tags": ["Islamic State", "France", "UK news", "Syria", "Europe", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "On security, Britain and France can be leaders of Europe | Natalie Nougayr\u00e8de"},{"date": "2015-12-01T14:56:02Z", "country": "france", "content": "The report into last December\u2019s AirAsia crash suggests significant parallels with the Air France disaster of 2009.In both incidents, a technical issue helped trigger a chain of events in the cockpit where the pilots\u2019 commands took the plane out of control. And on both occasions, a possibly disoriented co-pilot pulled back on his stick, pointing the nose of the plane up and putting it into a disastrous stall. Related: AirAsia crash: misunderstanding between captain and co-pilot blamed Questions will be asked about AirAsia\u2019s maintenance after an unresolved problem with the wires leading to the rudder of the Airbus A320 had triggered repeated warnings in the weeks before the plane took off from Surabaya to Singapore on 28 December. On this flight, on three occasions, an alert flashed in the cockpit telling pilots of a problem with the rudder controls. Three times, the pilots responded with a series of commands to restore it as instructed. When the warning flashed for a fourth time in the space of 15 minutes, one of the pilots \u2013 possibly having seen a fix employed by an engineer on the ground \u2013 cut the circuits to reset the system, and disabled the autopilot. With the rudder now not being immediately controlled, the plane banked quickly, to an angle of 54 degrees. In correcting this severe roll, the co-pilot appears to have pulled back on his controls. But he then continued to pull back even as the captain attempted to do the opposite, until the plane\u2019s \u201cangle of attack\u201d was too near the vertical and it stalled, out of control, and plummeted. Although the cockpit voice recorder does not give the same picture as from the AirFrance disaster, where 228 people died when the plane crashed in the southern Atlantic, there appears to have been the same contradiction between the pilot\u2019s commands and the unwitting actions taken by the second-in-command.In the AirFrance disaster, the instruments supplying the speed readings to the cockpit had iced over and the autopilot was disabled, although investigators have never fully established what led the pilot to get the controls so disastrously wrong and ignore the stall warnings on the Airbus A330. The immediate situation facing the AirAsia pilots, once the plane started to roll, must have been far more disorientating. The report issued by the Indonesian safety board does not apportion blame. But the incident suggests again that pilots have become decreasingly able to cope when computer systems go wrong. David Learmount, of FlightGlobal, said: \u201cThese guys had more excuse than the AirFrance crew. This was a repetitive fault and they did the correct thing three times, before trying something else. And the aircraft was in an upset condition before the autopilot was switched off. But the pilot should have been aware of the fault. Had they used traditional pilot skills the aircraft [would have been] controllable, but once it was in a rapid dive it was difficult. They didn\u2019t pick up the full import of what was happening to them.\u201dLearmount said the incidence of pilots losing control had increased as planes had become more and more automated, as a US Federal Aviation Administration report had shown. He said: \u201cMost of the time computers are brilliant and accurate and we learn to trust them, but when they do go wrong it\u2019s very unsettling. Very rarely does anything serious go wrong with the plane or its computers but if it does, the pilots often don\u2019t cope.\u201d ", "tags": ["AirAsia flight QZ8501", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Air transport"], "title": "AirAsia crash: pilots' confusion recalls 2009 Air France disaster"},