[{"date": "2008-01-08T23:56:33Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Nuremberg trials sent Hitler's senior henchmen to the gallows or long stretches in prison. But others escaped. Quietly, with barely a ripple, middle- and low-ranking war criminals slipped the Nuremberg net and subsequent efforts to catch them. They obtained false papers, packed their bags and vanished across the Atlantic to a safe haven: South America.Legends followed them. There were stories of U-boats packed with Nazi gold docking on the coast of Patagonia. Novels and films imagined a shadowy Fourth Reich of mosquitoes, swastikas and eugenic laboratories in the Amazon jungle and Andean foothills. Some fantastical accounts had the F\u00fchrer himself in a Panama hat somewhere clipping orchids.The reality was more prosaic but still sinister. Hundreds, possibly thousands, had escaped through the \"ratline\" and found sanctuary. As the decades slid by, a handful were caught. Adolf Eichmann, an architect of the Holocaust, was kidnapped by Israeli agents in Argentina in 1960. Klaus Barbie, the \"Butcher of Lyons\", was extradited from Bolivia in 1983. Erich Priebke, a Waffen SS captain, was extradited from Argentina in 1995. The story petered out. The fugitives were no longer just pensioners but octogenarians, nonagenarians and, for the most part, dead. When the 20th century ended so, it seemed, did the hunt for Nazis.Not quite. The Simon Wiesenthal Centre recently made a bombshell announcement. The hunt was back on. The Jewish human rights group revealed that it was launching one final drive to locate the remaining genocide collaborators hiding in South America: Operation Last Chance. \"We don't know how many Nazi war criminals are in those countries but we think it's dozens, if not hundreds,\" said Efraim Zuroff, the centre's chief Nazi hunter. It was extremely late in the day, he acknowledged, but not too late.After years of indifference or outright obstruction, the region's governments had decided to help the hunters. Private and public money had been raised to offer rewards for information. And there were leads. Police had names, bank accounts and tip-offs. Wire-taps were yielding tantalising clues. Media campaigns in Chile, Uruguay, Argentina and Brazil were publicising telephone hotlines and the $10,000 (\u00a35,000) reward for each tip leading to a conviction. Even after six decades the trail seemed warm.\"Given the large number of Nazi war criminals and collaborators who escaped to South America, this has the potential to yield important results,\" says Zuroff. He is uncompromising about his prey. \"The natural tendency is to be sympathetic towards people after they reach a certain age, but these are the last people on earth who deserve sympathy. Their victims deserve that an honest effort be made to find them.\"Zuroff does not fit Hollywood's image of a dashing investigator. In his three-piece suit, big spectacles and shiny black shoes, he looks every inch the 59-year-old academic that he is. A New York-born Israeli historian specialising in Holocaust studies, he is the successor to Simon Wiesenthal, a Viennese Jew who survived the camps, moved to the US and tracked Nazis until his death in 2005. Zuroff's tools are reports, databases, tip-offs and publicity. Hardly James Bond, but for a small organisation on a tight budget there are limited ways to scour haystacks for tell-tale glints.South America is big, a continent almost twice the size of Europe stretching from the Caribbean through the Andes, the Amazon and the pampas and tailing at the icy tip of Tierra del Fuego. Thirteen countries, thousands of cities, 370 million people. If you were a Nazi, where would you lay your hat? Skim the Lonely Planet guidebook and one town leaps off the pages. It resembles a Tyrolean ski resort, the plaza has an \"Alpine design\", the restaurants serve fondue, venison and chocolate cake, and there is a cable car soaring up \"Gothic spires of rock\". Welcome to San Carlos de Bariloche.It appears so perfect as to be a cliche, but this holiday capital in Argentine Patagonia is the suspected bolthole of the most wanted Nazi in South America. Investigators have a hunch that somewhere among the skiiers and student revellers who throng the picturesque streets is a 93-year-old Austrian by the name of Aribert Heim - otherwise known as Doctor Death, or, in Spanish, Doctor Muerte.\"This is the most important manhunt in over 20 years. If we only get Heim it will be a success,\" says Zuroff. The most sought after Nazi since Josef Mengele has a bounty of $448,000 (\u00a3227,000) on his head and the governments of Argentina, Chile and Germany on his tail. \"When three countries are bent on finding somebody, he will be found. Where there's a will, there's a way,\" says Zuroff.The reason Heim tops the most wanted list makes for grim reading. As an SS doctor at Mauthausen, a concentration camp near the Austrian city of Linz, he earned a reputation for exceptional cruelty. Camp survivors said he injected prisoners in the heart with petrol and poison and timed the deaths. He allegedly performed amputations without anaesthetic, removed the tattooed flesh of a prisoner to make seat coverings for the camp command-ant's flat and boiled the flesh off a head to use the skull as an exhibit.After the war, the young physician was overlooked by Nuremberg investigators and moved to a spa town near Frankfurt where he found work as a gynaecologist, married and played in the ice hockey team. However, by 1962 Austrian investigators were closing in and Heim fled. Over the years there were alleged sightings in Egypt, Uruguay, Chile and Spain. But now all attention is on Bariloche. Heim has a 64-year-old daughter, Waltraud, who lives just across the border in the Chilean town of Puerto Montt. His one-time lover and Waltraud's mother, Gertrud B\u00f6ser, visited Chile 18 times between 1979 and 1992. Gertrud is dead and Waltraud declines to discuss her father. Heim's other family, a wife and two sons in Baden-Baden, Germany, say he died of cancer in Argentina in 1993.If so, that would repeat the anti-climax of the hunt for the other notorious doctor, Mengele. Investigators discovered his bones in a cemetery near S\u00e3o Paulo in 1985. Auschwitz's \"Angel of Death\", memorably played by Gregory Peck in the film The Boys from Brazil, apparently had a stroke while swimming six years earlier. Might the hunters also be too late for Heim?A retired Israeli air force colonel, Danny Baz, has published a book claiming he was part of a squad that tracked down and killed him in California in 1982 and dumped the body in the Pacific. Zuroff dismisses that as fantasy and says the evidence strongly indicates that Heim was alive. In 2001, his lawyer sought a refund from German tax authorities on the grounds that his client was living abroad. Heim's wife and sons were secretive and uncommunicative and had not tried to claim a Berlin bank account in his name containing \u20ac1m (\u00a3750,000). Surveillance records showed that the mother phoned her sons on his birthday to remind them of the date.\"We are very serious about capturing Heim,\" says Hans-J\u00fcrgen Schrade, a captain from the State Office of Criminal Police in Stuttgart, which is handling the case. Schrade, who visited Chile and Argentina in April, is convinced that Heim is somewhere near Bariloche and close to his daughter's town: Puerto Montt is only two hours away from the Argentine border. The Simon Wiesenthal Centre had received \"potentially very important information\" along the same lines, says Zuroff, without elaborating.If Doctor Death is captured in the resort town, it will suggest a certain Nazi herd mentality. It was here that Erich Priebke, an SS officer who participated in the massacre of 335 prisoners on the outskirts of Rome in 1944, was confronted by a US television network in 1994 and from here that he was subsequently extradited to Italy. Currently serving a life sentence under house arrest in Rome, the 94-year-old is a poster-boy for master-race longevity. He scoots to court on the back of his lawyer's Vespa, takes calls on his cell phone and flogs his autobiography on his own internet page.There is believed to be a smattering of fugitives in Bolivia, Brazil and Paraguay, but by far the most popular destination was Argentina. A government panel reported in 1999 that at least 180 Nazis facing criminal charges in Europe had moved to Argentina. That excluded rank-and-file Nazis not facing individual charges. There is no mystery about why so many ended up here: they were invited. The government of Juan Per\u00f3n established \"ratlines\" to spirit war criminals and collaborators into Argentina. With the cold war breaking out, America, Britain and the Soviet Union poached Nazi scientists, so this is a subject without moral high ground, but Per\u00f3n's welcome extended to men with few talents beyond mass murder.There were several reasons. When posted as a military attach\u00e9 to Italy in 1939-41, the ambitious Argentine developed a taste for Mussolini's firebrand fascism. He forged a relationship with SS agents who gave him intelligence on South American countries in return for Argentine cover. They cooked up an aborted plan to install a puppet regime in Bolivia. The professional soldier in Per\u00f3n considered the Nuremberg trials an insult to military honour. As a nationalist president he wanted scientists, jet-plane designers and nuclear experts for his arms industry. On his immigration papers, Eichmann stated his profession as \"technician\". Mengele claimed to be a \"mechanic\".Declassified documents in Argentina, America and Europe show how Buenos Aires teamed up with Vatican officials, notably the Argentine cardinal Antonio Caggiano and the French cardinal Eug\u00e8ne Tisserant, to rescue beleaguered Nazis and collaborators from post-war Europe. Imagining itself to be fighting communism, the network issued false documents to slip Hitler's helpers to Italy and on to passenger ships departing from Genoa.One of the first to arrive in Buenos Aires was Pierre Daye, a Belgian collaborator who had been sentenced to death. Unusually, he flew, but the sentiments in his memoirs were doubtless shared by others: \"It was with a sense of deliverance, of escape, a veritable joy in the heart, that I boarded the plane that would carry me to South America.\" As the four-engine Douglas neared sanctuary, he grew giddy. \"They may be looking for me in that troubled Europe. But they cannot reach me. I fly far from a world gone mad, towards peace. It's all over. I have escaped. I fly through the blue.\"At the same time that Evita was wowing crowds outside the Casa Rosada, the presidential palace, her husband was importing Nazis in bulk. Per\u00f3n authorised Daye to set up the Society in Argentina for the Reception of Europeans in a grand church-owned building. An Argentine-German SS captain, Carlos Fuldner, established a company called Capri that did contract work for Argentina's state water utility and offered a sinecure for the likes of Eichmann.There may not have been submarines laden with gold nor jungle laboratories making blue-eyed Indians but there was indeed a shadowy network of genocidal murderers in Argentina. It is a stain on the revered founder of Per\u00f3nism that has been belatedly and grudgingly recognised. In 2005 the government repealed \"directive 11\", a secret order that prohibited Jews fleeing the Holocaust from entering Argentina in the 1940s. Younger Argentines have been willing to explore this dark side of their history, but for many older Argentines it is too painful. Denial and obstruction endure. Though more helpful to Nazi hunters than before, the government is widely believed to be withholding immigration records that could expose details of the ratline.That reluctance and the mindset it betrays appears to impel Zuroff's hunt more than the prospect of putting Nazis behind bars. Operation Last Chance was first launched in Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia in 2002. Five years later, the results seem paltry: three arrest warrants, two extradition requests and five cases that may or may not lead to trials. Now that it has moved to South America and been renamed Operaci\u00f3n Ultima Oportunidad, what are its chances?\"The scheme [in the Baltics] has not been as successful as we hoped in the practical sense of achieving convictions,\" says Zuroff. But it was not just about justice; it was about \"the struggle for historical truth\". Six decades after a horrified world watched newsreels of walking skeletons and pits of emaciated flesh, the Simon Wiesenthal Centre was concerned that memory was fading and being distorted. The outright denial of Iran's president Mahmoud Ahmadinejad was an extreme case. In Europe it took the form of pinning blame for round-ups, massacres and camps solely on the Germans and denying the often enthusiastic local complicity. In much of the Baltics and eastern Europe that complicity remains taboo, says Zuroff. Hunting Nazis, in other words, is not just about bringing them to justice. It is about fashioning them into tools, educative instruments, to turn back the clock and remind a forgetful world about that sickening feeling in 1945.That may seem an excessive load to pile on to Aribert Heim, a 93-year-old who has been running for most of his life and apparently wants to spend his twilight years near his daughter. In Mauthausen, he was a 27-year-old junior doctor surrounded by moral chaos. Now he could be a great-grandfather. The wanted poster showing him as he may appear today is hardly sympathetic, but it cannot mask the pathos of somebody so old being prey. If Heim is caught taking fondue at the Alpine plaza overlooking the lake, he will not finish his meal. He will be taken away in handcuffs and almost certainly die in an Argentine or German jail cell.\"The passage of time in no way diminishes the guilt of the perpetrators,\" says Zuroff. \"Killers don't become righteous gentiles when they reach a certain age.\" For the hunter, those images from Mauthausen, the poison injections, the stopwatch to time the deaths, the tattoo seat covers, the skull - they tumble into the present. They are always present.\u00b7 Uki Go\u00f1i is a Guardian journalist based in Buenos Aires and the author of The Real Odessa: Smuggling the Nazis to Per\u00f3n's Argentina (Granta). Rory Carroll is the Guardian's Latin America correspondent.", "tags": ["Second world war", "Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Rory Carroll and Uki Go\u00f1i on the hunt in Argentina for Aribert Heim, the last of the Nazis"},{"date": "2008-06-17T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentines are very worried about their future. On Sunday farmers began their fourth strike in three months in reaction to the government's introduction in March of a new sliding scale of tax tariffs on grain and oilseed. The farmers are demanding that the president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, performs a U-turn on these laws.At least 300 motorways in the country were blocked by protesters, which saw dramatic clashes with police on Saturday and Sunday. Alfredo De Angeli, the prominent farming leader and a rising voice of dissent against the Argentine government, was briefly arrested at a roadblock in Entre Rios province (north of Buenos Aires).In response to these protests, and very symbolically for many Argentines, pro-government groups have called for a rally in Plaza de Mayo tomorrow, in front of the Casa Rosada. The roadblocks have caused things to deteriorate rapidly; there are shortages of basic goods such as flour, milk and meat, an incomprehensible situation for a country well known for its agricultural economy. Argentines were shocked to see up to 880,000 gallons of spoiled milk being drained from milk tankers and horrified by the sight of grain being burned alongside the motorways. The blockades are sparking fuel shortages, which has led to reduced bus services, and has sparked social unrest.The anger and frustration has led to hundreds of Argentines taking to the streets, many banging pots and pans to show their discontent with the government. For most citizens these scenes are vividly reminiscent of the economic collapse after the country defaulted on its national debt in 2001.According to a report to be published this week by the Argentine institutions and markets research centre at Eseade business school, Argentina's debt levels are now higher than they were when the economy crashed \u2013 at that time the largest crash of its kind in history. The paper's authors, Mart\u00edn Krause and Aldo Abram, believe that a worsening crisis of confidence in the government has brought the spectre of a new default closer. Despite radical restructuring just three years ago, public debt has reached $114.7bn or 56% of gross domestic product, compared with $144.2bn, or 54% of GDP, in 2001.Argentina is now being affected by a problem without precedent; a conflict between the state and the farmers, which is virtually crippling Argentina's traditional economic activities. Yet, there is a much more serious underlying problem; the general sense of national impotence with the state failing to find even short-term solutions to the problems at hand in order to help resolve the crisis \u2013 in the Argentine collective imagination there is the fear, perhaps well-founded, that the country is descending into anarchy.Unless the farmers or the government begin to discuss their differences, Argentina could face even more violence in the streets, and the real possibility of social disintegration and political collapse.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: Conflict between Argentine farmers and the government causing unrest"},{"date": "2008-06-17T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentines are very worried about their future. On Sunday farmers began their fourth strike in three months in reaction to the government's introduction in March of a new sliding scale of tax tariffs on grain and oilseed. The farmers are demanding that the president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, performs a U-turn on these laws.At least 300 motorways in the country were blocked by protesters, which saw dramatic clashes with police on Saturday and Sunday. Alfredo De Angeli, the prominent farming leader and a rising voice of dissent against the Argentine government, was briefly arrested at a roadblock in Entre Rios province (north of Buenos Aires).In response to these protests, and very symbolically for many Argentines, pro-government groups have called for a rally in Plaza de Mayo tomorrow, in front of the Casa Rosada. The roadblocks have caused things to deteriorate rapidly; there are shortages of basic goods such as flour, milk and meat, an incomprehensible situation for a country well known for its agricultural economy. Argentines were shocked to see up to 880,000 gallons of spoiled milk being drained from milk tankers and horrified by the sight of grain being burned alongside the motorways. The blockades are sparking fuel shortages, which has led to reduced bus services, and has sparked social unrest.The anger and frustration has led to hundreds of Argentines taking to the streets, many banging pots and pans to show their discontent with the government. For most citizens these scenes are vividly reminiscent of the economic collapse after the country defaulted on its national debt in 2001.According to a report to be published this week by the Argentine institutions and markets research centre at Eseade business school, Argentina's debt levels are now higher than they were when the economy crashed \u2013 at that time the largest crash of its kind in history. The paper's authors, Mart\u00edn Krause and Aldo Abram, believe that a worsening crisis of confidence in the government has brought the spectre of a new default closer. Despite radical restructuring just three years ago, public debt has reached $114.7bn or 56% of gross domestic product, compared with $144.2bn, or 54% of GDP, in 2001.Argentina is now being affected by a problem without precedent; a conflict between the state and the farmers, which is virtually crippling Argentina's traditional economic activities. Yet, there is a much more serious underlying problem; the general sense of national impotence with the state failing to find even short-term solutions to the problems at hand in order to help resolve the crisis \u2013 in the Argentine collective imagination there is the fear, perhaps well-founded, that the country is descending into anarchy.Unless the farmers or the government begin to discuss their differences, Argentina could face even more violence in the streets, and the real possibility of social disintegration and political collapse.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: Conflict between Argentine farmers and the government causing unrest"},{"date": "2008-06-19T15:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine conscript border guards were as charmless a bunch of fellows as you'd expect to find dispatched to a deserted road on top of a freezing cold mountain. I imagine they are still there, which makes me feel better.Shortly, we were plunging down again, every 100-metre drop bringing air more syrupy and rich; every degree of temperature raised bringing back the real prospect that one day I might be able to straighten my fingers again. I was breathing extra gulps just for the fun of it.We pulled over at a cafe for coffee. Having coffee in Argentina after being in Chile should be the first thing one does, like the Pope kissing the ground at the foot of the aircraft steps. For coffee in Chile means a sachet of Nescafe and tepid water producing a lumpy gloop of extraordinary vileness. Great dogs, rubbish coffee. In Argentina, it involves a loving process of alchemy with freshly crushed beans and warmed milk and an end product of such ambrosial ecstasy that you instinctively close your eyes as it slides down your throat and sigh loudly. As in San Pedro de Atacama, things felt like a Paramount set. Gauchos tethered their horses to the hitching post and walked past us, ponchos and all, raising a finger to the rim of their cowboy hats, Cuban heels click-clacking on the ancient wood floor as hard as granite. Chevy and Dodge pickups circa 1930 filled up at the single pump, its dials whirring round.We spent the next few days riding through north-west Argentina. First down intestinal tracts of roads \u2013 the kind of roads that fill bikers' winter dreams \u2013 that wound their way around bald, crumpled hills that changed colour at every bend \u2013 green, pink, yellow, even aquamarine \u2013 like your TV being on the blink. Then along arid valleys of sandstone, with fluted columns like giant organ pipes and eroded rocks forming fantastical sculptures. We rode along the Valley of the Butterflies, millions of them forming fluttering clouds that we passed through, like riding in a kaleidoscope. Down from the mountains, we hit the plains. Mile after mile of vineyards, then brilliant yellow tobacco crops, their leaves drying on the walls of the pueblos we passed through, each with a whitewashed church and a dusty football pitch, the twin obsessions of Argentina. In the middle of nowhere, we passed processions of devotees, walking who knows where, carrying aloft the Virgin Mary. And always the waving and the smiling. Surely, if there was a country to steal your heart, this was it.We rode along highways so straight and so long that a 20-degree bend constituted extreme sport; past the pigs and the horses and the donkeys and the chickens that seemed to wander around the Pampas at will, as if Argentina was one giant free-range farm.My last day with the group was spent in Alta Gracia. The day after they would be heading off to Buenos Aires, where they'd started their trip five weeks and 5,000 miles before. I was to give Kev's wife Julia back her beloved BMW and would fly home from C\u00f3rdoba.We rode to Che Guevara's old family home, now a museum. We saw the original South American motorcycle poster boy's Norton \"La Poderosa II\". Or maybe it was a replica - my Spanish is poor. La Poderosa's journey ended in a ditch in Chile, Che's in a ditch in Bolivia. In every photograph, from childhood on, there is a raging fire in his eyes. In every photograph bar one, of course. There's a terrible sadness in the house, like you're at the wake of a close friend.That night, as on every night in Argentina, we dined in a fine restaurant and ate an entire herd of cattle. If you ask them nicely, they'll often bring you a sprig of lettuce as garnish as well. The food was washed down, as ever, with wine that felt so sublime on the tongue it seemed a crime to swallow it. The group talked about the trip, about Peru and Bolivia, Chile and Argentina, recalled the roads and the spills and the near misses and the things they had seen which would stay with them forever. For this had been an adventure, not a holiday; exposed and vulnerable on a bike, a part of the landscape through which you travel, it brings a real feeling of achievement, of movement, of sensual pleasure, of survival. Because no matter how many times the clich\u00e9 is repeated, it holds true: driving a car is like watching a movie; riding a motorcycle like being in one. And when the bill came, as on every night, we all looked at it with wonder as pesos to pounds was calculated and, as I glanced round, I sensed, I think, a collective thought: this is living, really living.Globebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from 21 April to 25 May 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015. In conjunction with BMW Rider Training, Globebusters also offer residential rider training courses at their base in South Wales.", "tags": ["Road trips", "South America holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Chile holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Che Guevara", "World news"], "title": "Great journeys: across South America by bike, part three"},{"date": "2008-06-17T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentines are very worried about their future. On Sunday farmers began their fourth strike in three months in reaction to the government's introduction in March of a new sliding scale of tax tariffs on grain and oilseed. The farmers are demanding that the president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, performs a U-turn on these laws.At least 300 motorways in the country were blocked by protesters, which saw dramatic clashes with police on Saturday and Sunday. Alfredo De Angeli, the prominent farming leader and a rising voice of dissent against the Argentine government, was briefly arrested at a roadblock in Entre Rios province (north of Buenos Aires).In response to these protests, and very symbolically for many Argentines, pro-government groups have called for a rally in Plaza de Mayo tomorrow, in front of the Casa Rosada. The roadblocks have caused things to deteriorate rapidly; there are shortages of basic goods such as flour, milk and meat, an incomprehensible situation for a country well known for its agricultural economy. Argentines were shocked to see up to 880,000 gallons of spoiled milk being drained from milk tankers and horrified by the sight of grain being burned alongside the motorways. The blockades are sparking fuel shortages, which has led to reduced bus services, and has sparked social unrest.The anger and frustration has led to hundreds of Argentines taking to the streets, many banging pots and pans to show their discontent with the government. For most citizens these scenes are vividly reminiscent of the economic collapse after the country defaulted on its national debt in 2001.According to a report to be published this week by the Argentine institutions and markets research centre at Eseade business school, Argentina's debt levels are now higher than they were when the economy crashed \u2013 at that time the largest crash of its kind in history. The paper's authors, Mart\u00edn Krause and Aldo Abram, believe that a worsening crisis of confidence in the government has brought the spectre of a new default closer. Despite radical restructuring just three years ago, public debt has reached $114.7bn or 56% of gross domestic product, compared with $144.2bn, or 54% of GDP, in 2001.Argentina is now being affected by a problem without precedent; a conflict between the state and the farmers, which is virtually crippling Argentina's traditional economic activities. Yet, there is a much more serious underlying problem; the general sense of national impotence with the state failing to find even short-term solutions to the problems at hand in order to help resolve the crisis \u2013 in the Argentine collective imagination there is the fear, perhaps well-founded, that the country is descending into anarchy.Unless the farmers or the government begin to discuss their differences, Argentina could face even more violence in the streets, and the real possibility of social disintegration and political collapse.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: Conflict between Argentine farmers and the government causing unrest"},{"date": "2008-06-19T15:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine conscript border guards were as charmless a bunch of fellows as you'd expect to find dispatched to a deserted road on top of a freezing cold mountain. I imagine they are still there, which makes me feel better.Shortly, we were plunging down again, every 100-metre drop bringing air more syrupy and rich; every degree of temperature raised bringing back the real prospect that one day I might be able to straighten my fingers again. I was breathing extra gulps just for the fun of it.We pulled over at a cafe for coffee. Having coffee in Argentina after being in Chile should be the first thing one does, like the Pope kissing the ground at the foot of the aircraft steps. For coffee in Chile means a sachet of Nescafe and tepid water producing a lumpy gloop of extraordinary vileness. Great dogs, rubbish coffee. In Argentina, it involves a loving process of alchemy with freshly crushed beans and warmed milk and an end product of such ambrosial ecstasy that you instinctively close your eyes as it slides down your throat and sigh loudly. As in San Pedro de Atacama, things felt like a Paramount set. Gauchos tethered their horses to the hitching post and walked past us, ponchos and all, raising a finger to the rim of their cowboy hats, Cuban heels click-clacking on the ancient wood floor as hard as granite. Chevy and Dodge pickups circa 1930 filled up at the single pump, its dials whirring round.We spent the next few days riding through north-west Argentina. First down intestinal tracts of roads \u2013 the kind of roads that fill bikers' winter dreams \u2013 that wound their way around bald, crumpled hills that changed colour at every bend \u2013 green, pink, yellow, even aquamarine \u2013 like your TV being on the blink. Then along arid valleys of sandstone, with fluted columns like giant organ pipes and eroded rocks forming fantastical sculptures. We rode along the Valley of the Butterflies, millions of them forming fluttering clouds that we passed through, like riding in a kaleidoscope. Down from the mountains, we hit the plains. Mile after mile of vineyards, then brilliant yellow tobacco crops, their leaves drying on the walls of the pueblos we passed through, each with a whitewashed church and a dusty football pitch, the twin obsessions of Argentina. In the middle of nowhere, we passed processions of devotees, walking who knows where, carrying aloft the Virgin Mary. And always the waving and the smiling. Surely, if there was a country to steal your heart, this was it.We rode along highways so straight and so long that a 20-degree bend constituted extreme sport; past the pigs and the horses and the donkeys and the chickens that seemed to wander around the Pampas at will, as if Argentina was one giant free-range farm.My last day with the group was spent in Alta Gracia. The day after they would be heading off to Buenos Aires, where they'd started their trip five weeks and 5,000 miles before. I was to give Kev's wife Julia back her beloved BMW and would fly home from C\u00f3rdoba.We rode to Che Guevara's old family home, now a museum. We saw the original South American motorcycle poster boy's Norton \"La Poderosa II\". Or maybe it was a replica - my Spanish is poor. La Poderosa's journey ended in a ditch in Chile, Che's in a ditch in Bolivia. In every photograph, from childhood on, there is a raging fire in his eyes. In every photograph bar one, of course. There's a terrible sadness in the house, like you're at the wake of a close friend.That night, as on every night in Argentina, we dined in a fine restaurant and ate an entire herd of cattle. If you ask them nicely, they'll often bring you a sprig of lettuce as garnish as well. The food was washed down, as ever, with wine that felt so sublime on the tongue it seemed a crime to swallow it. The group talked about the trip, about Peru and Bolivia, Chile and Argentina, recalled the roads and the spills and the near misses and the things they had seen which would stay with them forever. For this had been an adventure, not a holiday; exposed and vulnerable on a bike, a part of the landscape through which you travel, it brings a real feeling of achievement, of movement, of sensual pleasure, of survival. Because no matter how many times the clich\u00e9 is repeated, it holds true: driving a car is like watching a movie; riding a motorcycle like being in one. And when the bill came, as on every night, we all looked at it with wonder as pesos to pounds was calculated and, as I glanced round, I sensed, I think, a collective thought: this is living, really living.Globebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from 21 April to 25 May 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015. In conjunction with BMW Rider Training, Globebusters also offer residential rider training courses at their base in South Wales.", "tags": ["Road trips", "South America holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Chile holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Che Guevara", "World news"], "title": "Great journeys: across South America by bike, part three"},{"date": "2008-06-05T13:16:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Oil spill threatens Buenos Aires >> Source: BBCWorkers are battling to dissolve an oil spill heading towards the coast of Argentina after two ships collided off the coast of neighbouring Uruguay.Mexico City smog hurting people's sense of smell >> Source: ReutersChronic pollution in Mexico City, which stains the sky yellow and can trigger government warnings to stay indoors, could be killing off residents' sense of smell, scientists say.Slovenia shuts down nuclear plant after cooling system leak >> Source: AFPLjubljana: Slovenia today began shutting down its only nuclear power plant in Krsko following a leak in the cooling system. Authorities said it does not represent a danger for people or the environment.Sites named for new UK offshore wind farms >>Source: Times onlineLondon: Eleven zones around Britain's coastline have been named as the best places to build the next generation of offshore wind farms. See them here on a map.Electricity from the exhaust pipe >> Source: Environmental News NetworkFreiburg, Germany: Researchers are working on a thermoelectric generator that converts the heat from car exhaust fumes into electricity.Drought declared in California >> Source: CNNSacramento, California: Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has declared a statewide drought after two years of below-average rainfall, low snow-melt runoff and a court-ordered restriction on water transfers.Spotted a good story online? Share your links below", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Oil spill threatens Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-17T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentines are very worried about their future. On Sunday farmers began their fourth strike in three months in reaction to the government's introduction in March of a new sliding scale of tax tariffs on grain and oilseed. The farmers are demanding that the president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, performs a U-turn on these laws.At least 300 motorways in the country were blocked by protesters, which saw dramatic clashes with police on Saturday and Sunday. Alfredo De Angeli, the prominent farming leader and a rising voice of dissent against the Argentine government, was briefly arrested at a roadblock in Entre Rios province (north of Buenos Aires).In response to these protests, and very symbolically for many Argentines, pro-government groups have called for a rally in Plaza de Mayo tomorrow, in front of the Casa Rosada. The roadblocks have caused things to deteriorate rapidly; there are shortages of basic goods such as flour, milk and meat, an incomprehensible situation for a country well known for its agricultural economy. Argentines were shocked to see up to 880,000 gallons of spoiled milk being drained from milk tankers and horrified by the sight of grain being burned alongside the motorways. The blockades are sparking fuel shortages, which has led to reduced bus services, and has sparked social unrest.The anger and frustration has led to hundreds of Argentines taking to the streets, many banging pots and pans to show their discontent with the government. For most citizens these scenes are vividly reminiscent of the economic collapse after the country defaulted on its national debt in 2001.According to a report to be published this week by the Argentine institutions and markets research centre at Eseade business school, Argentina's debt levels are now higher than they were when the economy crashed \u2013 at that time the largest crash of its kind in history. The paper's authors, Mart\u00edn Krause and Aldo Abram, believe that a worsening crisis of confidence in the government has brought the spectre of a new default closer. Despite radical restructuring just three years ago, public debt has reached $114.7bn or 56% of gross domestic product, compared with $144.2bn, or 54% of GDP, in 2001.Argentina is now being affected by a problem without precedent; a conflict between the state and the farmers, which is virtually crippling Argentina's traditional economic activities. Yet, there is a much more serious underlying problem; the general sense of national impotence with the state failing to find even short-term solutions to the problems at hand in order to help resolve the crisis \u2013 in the Argentine collective imagination there is the fear, perhaps well-founded, that the country is descending into anarchy.Unless the farmers or the government begin to discuss their differences, Argentina could face even more violence in the streets, and the real possibility of social disintegration and political collapse.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: Conflict between Argentine farmers and the government causing unrest"},{"date": "2008-06-19T15:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine conscript border guards were as charmless a bunch of fellows as you'd expect to find dispatched to a deserted road on top of a freezing cold mountain. I imagine they are still there, which makes me feel better.Shortly, we were plunging down again, every 100-metre drop bringing air more syrupy and rich; every degree of temperature raised bringing back the real prospect that one day I might be able to straighten my fingers again. I was breathing extra gulps just for the fun of it.We pulled over at a cafe for coffee. Having coffee in Argentina after being in Chile should be the first thing one does, like the Pope kissing the ground at the foot of the aircraft steps. For coffee in Chile means a sachet of Nescafe and tepid water producing a lumpy gloop of extraordinary vileness. Great dogs, rubbish coffee. In Argentina, it involves a loving process of alchemy with freshly crushed beans and warmed milk and an end product of such ambrosial ecstasy that you instinctively close your eyes as it slides down your throat and sigh loudly. As in San Pedro de Atacama, things felt like a Paramount set. Gauchos tethered their horses to the hitching post and walked past us, ponchos and all, raising a finger to the rim of their cowboy hats, Cuban heels click-clacking on the ancient wood floor as hard as granite. Chevy and Dodge pickups circa 1930 filled up at the single pump, its dials whirring round.We spent the next few days riding through north-west Argentina. First down intestinal tracts of roads \u2013 the kind of roads that fill bikers' winter dreams \u2013 that wound their way around bald, crumpled hills that changed colour at every bend \u2013 green, pink, yellow, even aquamarine \u2013 like your TV being on the blink. Then along arid valleys of sandstone, with fluted columns like giant organ pipes and eroded rocks forming fantastical sculptures. We rode along the Valley of the Butterflies, millions of them forming fluttering clouds that we passed through, like riding in a kaleidoscope. Down from the mountains, we hit the plains. Mile after mile of vineyards, then brilliant yellow tobacco crops, their leaves drying on the walls of the pueblos we passed through, each with a whitewashed church and a dusty football pitch, the twin obsessions of Argentina. In the middle of nowhere, we passed processions of devotees, walking who knows where, carrying aloft the Virgin Mary. And always the waving and the smiling. Surely, if there was a country to steal your heart, this was it.We rode along highways so straight and so long that a 20-degree bend constituted extreme sport; past the pigs and the horses and the donkeys and the chickens that seemed to wander around the Pampas at will, as if Argentina was one giant free-range farm.My last day with the group was spent in Alta Gracia. The day after they would be heading off to Buenos Aires, where they'd started their trip five weeks and 5,000 miles before. I was to give Kev's wife Julia back her beloved BMW and would fly home from C\u00f3rdoba.We rode to Che Guevara's old family home, now a museum. We saw the original South American motorcycle poster boy's Norton \"La Poderosa II\". Or maybe it was a replica - my Spanish is poor. La Poderosa's journey ended in a ditch in Chile, Che's in a ditch in Bolivia. In every photograph, from childhood on, there is a raging fire in his eyes. In every photograph bar one, of course. There's a terrible sadness in the house, like you're at the wake of a close friend.That night, as on every night in Argentina, we dined in a fine restaurant and ate an entire herd of cattle. If you ask them nicely, they'll often bring you a sprig of lettuce as garnish as well. The food was washed down, as ever, with wine that felt so sublime on the tongue it seemed a crime to swallow it. The group talked about the trip, about Peru and Bolivia, Chile and Argentina, recalled the roads and the spills and the near misses and the things they had seen which would stay with them forever. For this had been an adventure, not a holiday; exposed and vulnerable on a bike, a part of the landscape through which you travel, it brings a real feeling of achievement, of movement, of sensual pleasure, of survival. Because no matter how many times the clich\u00e9 is repeated, it holds true: driving a car is like watching a movie; riding a motorcycle like being in one. And when the bill came, as on every night, we all looked at it with wonder as pesos to pounds was calculated and, as I glanced round, I sensed, I think, a collective thought: this is living, really living.Globebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from 21 April to 25 May 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015. In conjunction with BMW Rider Training, Globebusters also offer residential rider training courses at their base in South Wales.", "tags": ["Road trips", "South America holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Chile holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Che Guevara", "World news"], "title": "Great journeys: across South America by bike, part three"},{"date": "2008-06-05T13:16:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Oil spill threatens Buenos Aires >> Source: BBCWorkers are battling to dissolve an oil spill heading towards the coast of Argentina after two ships collided off the coast of neighbouring Uruguay.Mexico City smog hurting people's sense of smell >> Source: ReutersChronic pollution in Mexico City, which stains the sky yellow and can trigger government warnings to stay indoors, could be killing off residents' sense of smell, scientists say.Slovenia shuts down nuclear plant after cooling system leak >> Source: AFPLjubljana: Slovenia today began shutting down its only nuclear power plant in Krsko following a leak in the cooling system. Authorities said it does not represent a danger for people or the environment.Sites named for new UK offshore wind farms >>Source: Times onlineLondon: Eleven zones around Britain's coastline have been named as the best places to build the next generation of offshore wind farms. See them here on a map.Electricity from the exhaust pipe >> Source: Environmental News NetworkFreiburg, Germany: Researchers are working on a thermoelectric generator that converts the heat from car exhaust fumes into electricity.Drought declared in California >> Source: CNNSacramento, California: Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has declared a statewide drought after two years of below-average rainfall, low snow-melt runoff and a court-ordered restriction on water transfers.Spotted a good story online? Share your links below", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Oil spill threatens Argentina"},{"date": "2008-04-02T17:01:16Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The late Guido di Tella, the intellectual and Anglophile Argentine foreign minister during the corrupt government of Carlos Menem in the 1990s, used to express the hope that Argentina, after its tragic experiences in the second half of the 20th century, would one day become a \"normal\" country. Casting around for examples of normality, his eye fell on New Zealand and Austria.Many Argentines coming from European immigrant stock used to subscribe to Di Tella's bizarre and unachievable desire. Such people had always believed their country to be a prosperous western outpost that had deviated from the European tradition of development and would eventually return to its original roots. Such a vision was conjured up by Argentine politicians and historians for more than a century; today it is coming under sustained attack.Argentina has been waking up to a different reality. It has dawned on progressive elements within the ruling elite that they are firmly and irrevocably situated not in Europe but in Latin America, a continent that they share with many different peoples with diverse traditions. Already, in neighbouring countries such as Bolivia, these peoples have begun to recover and celebrate their long-lost indigenous heritage, reviving the ancient conflict between Indians and white settlers. This new-found perception in Argentina of its geographical circumstances, in a society of long-established and self-satisfied conservatism, not to say racism, lies at the heart of a slow-burning cultural revolution that is gradually transforming the country. Under the auspices of Nestor and Cristina Kirchner, the husband-and-wife presidential team that have ruled since 2003 - Nestor since May that year, Cristina since last December - the image and reality of Argentina is beginning to change. Contested and controversial, and hated by the traditional ruling class, this impressive political couple have presided over the country's economic recovery after the spectacular banking collapse of 2001, establishing the best and most popular government in more than half a century. Among their achievements is the promotion of a national re-examination of what it means to be Argentine in the 21st century. In 2010, the country will celebrate the 200th anniversary of its independence from Spain, and President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has appealed for the construction, beyond party loyalties, of a \"bicentennial national agreement\" that will define the model of its future development. At stake are fresh readings of the country's history as well as of its ethnic composition, subjects that Argentines have traditionally been reluctant to contemplate.Argentina is a country that I once knew well, and many of the youthful figures that I knew in the 1960s and 70s are now running the country. I have never forgotten an extraordinary night some 35 years ago, in March 1973, when the Peronists won their first electoral victory since their charismatic leader Juan Per\u00f3n was overthrown by a military coup in 1955. The explosion of freedom after years of military rule, and the expectation of many young people that the country was about to change for the better, was palpable. On that autumn day in 1973, H\u00e9ctor C\u00e1mpora, Per\u00f3n's dentist, had won the presidential election, and I watched in the streets of Buenos Aires as the military police, sent out on motorcycles in anti-riot gear, were suddenly overwhelmed by the euphoria of the crowds. Forced to dismount from their machines, they were wildly embraced by demonstrators waving the light blue national flag. It was a revolutionary moment, one swiftly followed by others, including the release of all political prisoners, the re-establishment of relations with Cuba, and radical educational reforms. Among those caught up in the excitement of the time were two young law students at the University of La Plata, Nestor Kirchner and Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez.As with most of Latin America's radical experiments in the 20th century, the Peronist government ended in disaster. Guerrilla opposition grew as rightwing paramilitaries sought to silence the left, and in a grim atmosphere of increasing violence, a military putsch in 1976 by General Jorge Videla inaugurated six years of a \"dirty war\", waged principally against young people. No one under 30 was safe. A terrible civilian slaughter, with 30,000 dead or \"disappeared\", was to mark the country until today. Although the military gangsters were expelled after their invasion of the Falkland Islands in 1982, devised by General Leopoldo Galtieri, Argentina has taken two decades to recover. Before flying to Argentina on this present occasion I dug out an old Latin American contacts book from the early 1970s. As I looked at the names, I realised how many had been murdered in subsequent years. My notebook included Argentine journalists and politicians, Uruguayan senators, Bolivian army officers, Chilean academics and Brazilian peasant leaders - a typical cross-section of the people a journalist might expect to encounter or befriend. Some were \"disappeared\", others were shot or blown up. Several ended up on the grass verge on the road to the airport at Ezeiza, dumped there out of the Ford Falcons of the death squads. The Kirchners escaped from the dangers that touched so many of their generation. Married in 1976, they moved out of immediate danger in La Plata to the far south of Patagonia, to Nestor's home state of Santa Cruz. Here the military repression of young leftists was less intense. The Kirchners established a law firm in Rio Gallegos, and gingerly re-entered politics after the collapse of the generals' regime in the 80s. Nestor Kirchner became the governor of Santa Cruz, while Cristina was elected to the senate in Buenos Aires. From these provincial origins, they both established themselves on the national stage, re-embracing the Peronist cause and not forgetting the radicalism of their youth. They moved into the Casa Rosada, the presidential palace in Buenos Aires, in May 2003, and were given the teasing title of \"the Penguins\" in honour of their south Atlantic provenance. By rescheduling the country's massive debt of $84bn, and taking no further advice from the International Monetary Fund, Nestor Kirchner presided over a sustained period of economic expansion.Many of the ministers in the Kirchner governments are the heirs of those involved in the ferment of the 70s, and they have played their part in ensuring that the past is not forgotten. Nestor Kirchner persuaded the congress in 2003 to abolish the amnesty laws that had protected the military from prosecution, while Cristina was the inspiration behind the creation of a \"Museum of Memory\" in the building that once housed the Escuela Superior de la Mec\u00e1nica de la Armada (ESMA), the engineering school of the navy used as an interrogation and torture centre.The dirty war remains a central, unforgettable and contemporary element in Argentina's history. It is fresh in many minds, not least in the Kirchners', who have given solid support to the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, the formidable \"mothers\" who began organising in the first years of the Videla dictatorship to protest against the disappearance of their children. The Madres are now a powerful leftwing political organisation, and in the central square outside the congress, I found their prominently placed bookshop and coffee house. I have seen members of the Madres hawking their consciences around the continent in various countries in recent years, from Ecuador to Cuba, and I used to feel that they belonged to an era that was over. Surely it was time for Argentina to get on with a new life? Yet that is not at all the mood in Buenos Aires today. Constant reference is made in the media to the events of the 70s, with memorial notices and church services to recall the names of those who disappeared. As well ask the Jews to forget about the Holocaust, or the Spaniards to forget the civil war. The macabre story of the children born to prisoners here (and at a similar centre in La Plata) and then handed over for adoption to families of military officers has been told in a film by Estela Bravo, The Found Children of Argentina, recently shown on British television. The Abuelas de la Plaza de Mayo, a sister organisation of the Madres, was set up to mobilise the \"grandmothers\" to inquire into the fate of their grandchildren, more than 500 of whom were missing. DNA testing at the national genetic databank has eventually enabled 100 of them, now adults, to discover who they really are, and to rejoin what is left of their real families. They are never out of the news. One is a member of congress; others have embarked on high-profile prosecutions of their adoptive parents.To discuss the fate of the prisoners at the ESMA torture centre, I called on Horacio Verbitsky, an old friend from my 70s notebook, locating him in a tiny book-lined study in a building close to the law courts. Verbitsky is a writer and investigative journalist who wrote a notable book, The Flight, describing the military practice of throwing their tortured victims, drugged and bound, from aeroplanes into the waters of the river Plate. These were the parents of the children subsequently adopted. Known as \"El Perro\" for his terrier-like capacity to pursue his investigations, Verbitsky is now the president of the Centre for Legal and Social Studies, a human rights organisation that seeks to address the abuses of the military government. He does not take such an extreme leftist line as the Madres, but is a passionate advocate of the Kirchner government, and a powerful critic of the country's prosperous middle class and its \"social hatred\" of the provincial upstarts from Patagonia. He praises the way in which the Kirchners have cleaned up the country's legal system, making impeccable appointments to the supreme court and bringing in women judges to challenge the traditional male supremacy. Verbitsky is also a significant revisionist historian, arousing fresh controversy recently with a documented account of the misdemeanours of the Catholic church, long one of the pillars of the Argentine state. While some priests were imprisoned and killed, several senior bishops gave open support to the military. Refusing to concern themselves with the fate of the disappeared, they lunched regularly with army commanders. Verbitsky's revelations have made it difficult for the church to re-establish itself as an ethical reference point in Argentine society.Another friend on the list of survivors in my notebook is Jos\u00e9 Nun, a sociologist I knew when he lived in exile in Chile. Today, aged 70, he is the minister of culture, a strategic position in a government seeking a redefinition of its historical traditions. I went to see him in the ornate old palace that his ministry occupies in Buenos Aires, and found him as enthusiastic as I remembered him, bubbling over with schemes and projects. Spurred on by the imminent bicentenary celebrations, he is financing a research programme that delves into the social history of the past two centuries. We need, he says, to explain \"how and why we are what we are\". Only then can the people of Argentina decide how their country's direction might be changed or maintained. The first fruits of this initiative are an immense two-volume collection of essays. Our central objective, says Nun, is \"to re-examine and debate our successes and failures\". One crucial fact discussed in these volumes was the arrival of 7 million immigrants from Europe in the half-century between 1870 and 1915. At the same time, although this is not a topic on which Argentines care to dwell, the local Indian population was slaughtered in successive military campaigns to make room for the settlers. Two under-visited museums in Buenos Aires tell part of the story.In the old dock area, past the forgotten, once British-owned railway stations and across a crowded motorway, stands the National Immigration Museum, an immense, empty and almost inaccessible building. This is Argentina's Ellis Island, a \"Gran Hotel\" completed in 1911 that processed tens of thousands of impecunious European immigrants. More reminiscent of a concentration camp than an induction centre, its vast spaces accommodated an eating hall on the ground floor, and sleeping and washing facilities for men and women on the floors above. An exhibition of photographs shows the arrival of peasants from Friuli and Dalmatia, then in the Austro-Hungarian empire. They were destined for settlement in the northern frontier provinces from which the Indians were being removed.Another rarely visited museum stands a block from the Plaza de Mayo. The Juan Ambrosetti Ethnographic Museum, part of the university of Buenos Aires, contains photographs and artefacts concerning these same Indians from the north, while an exhibition about Tierra del Fuego in the south examines how Indian society was destroyed by European missionaries in the 19th century, a story reminiscent of the extermination of the Aborigines of Tasmania. These museums represent two facets of Argentina's cultural heritage that are rarely considered together, except in the work of another revisionist. Osvaldo Bayer, after whom the coffee shop of the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo was named, was notorious in the 70s as the author of La Patagonia Rebelde, an account of an army massacre of rural workers in Patagonia in 1922. Exiled in the 70s and now over 80, Bayer has turned his attention from the struggles of workers to the decimation of the country's original peoples in the 19th century. He is one of the few historians to link the dirty war of the 1970s with the dirty war against the Indians of the 1880s. The chief author of the 19th-century massacres was General Julio Roca, honoured until recently as one of the country's most eminent figures. Twice president between 1880 and 1904, Roca is now remembered for his \"Campaign in the Desert\" in 1879, in the south-central zone of the country. Thousands of Indians were killed, and the great central area of the pampas was prepared for European immigration. Further campaigns took place on the northern frontier with Paraguay, and here too the land was cleared for immigrants. Some now consider Roca the \"Hitler\" of Argentina's \"final solution\", and Bayer has edited a book, The History of Argentine Cruelty, that paints a dark picture of the time. Roca's huge statue in Buenos Aires is regularly decorated with the slogan \"Genocidio\". A more controversial subject is the ethnic makeup of the population, for so long considered largely white and European. The DNA centre that has reunited the children of the \"disappeared\" with their families has produced some interesting findings. Recent research into Argentines' DNA suggests that 56% have at least partly indigenous blood. \"We are not as European as we think we are,\" says Daniel Corach, director of the Service of Genetic Digital Tracing of the University of Buenos Aires. A 12-year research project, from 1992 to 2004, examined the DNA of 12,000 people in 11 provinces. As well as noting that only 44% of the population were of European origin, it concluded that 10% were pure Indians. Since the current population of Argentina is approximately 36 million, this suggests that 20 million people are of indigenous origin (of which 3.6 million are pure Indians), while only 16 million can trace their ancestry back to Europe.This is far from the understanding that most urban Argentines have of the ethnic makeup of their country. They continue to believe that they live in a largely white country with a tiny handful of Indians sprinkled about in the furthest provinces. Yet step into the ancient and inadequate metro system of Buenos Aires and you are at once aware of a population totally unlike the children of Italians and Spaniards who travel above ground. Below, a large proportion of the travellers still have Indian faces and complexions. Join the almost daily demonstrations of the piqueteros, the unemployed organisation that enjoys as much support from the Kirchners as do the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, and you receive the same impression. Argentina is more of an Indian country than the history books have led its people to suppose. Recognition of this fact is one of the conclusions that will emerge from Cristina Kirchner's bicentennial desire to re-examine the historical record. It will not bring about the \"normality\" that Guido di Tella envisaged, but accepting this reality in the 21st century will hasten the country's integration into a continent already rejecting its white settler traditions.\u00b7 The following clarification was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday April 5 2008. We said in a subheading that the president of Argentina, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, was due to visit the UK. In fact she had already cancelled the trip because of a farmers' protest.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Architects of the new Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-17T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentines are very worried about their future. On Sunday farmers began their fourth strike in three months in reaction to the government's introduction in March of a new sliding scale of tax tariffs on grain and oilseed. The farmers are demanding that the president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, performs a U-turn on these laws.At least 300 motorways in the country were blocked by protesters, which saw dramatic clashes with police on Saturday and Sunday. Alfredo De Angeli, the prominent farming leader and a rising voice of dissent against the Argentine government, was briefly arrested at a roadblock in Entre Rios province (north of Buenos Aires).In response to these protests, and very symbolically for many Argentines, pro-government groups have called for a rally in Plaza de Mayo tomorrow, in front of the Casa Rosada. The roadblocks have caused things to deteriorate rapidly; there are shortages of basic goods such as flour, milk and meat, an incomprehensible situation for a country well known for its agricultural economy. Argentines were shocked to see up to 880,000 gallons of spoiled milk being drained from milk tankers and horrified by the sight of grain being burned alongside the motorways. The blockades are sparking fuel shortages, which has led to reduced bus services, and has sparked social unrest.The anger and frustration has led to hundreds of Argentines taking to the streets, many banging pots and pans to show their discontent with the government. For most citizens these scenes are vividly reminiscent of the economic collapse after the country defaulted on its national debt in 2001.According to a report to be published this week by the Argentine institutions and markets research centre at Eseade business school, Argentina's debt levels are now higher than they were when the economy crashed \u2013 at that time the largest crash of its kind in history. The paper's authors, Mart\u00edn Krause and Aldo Abram, believe that a worsening crisis of confidence in the government has brought the spectre of a new default closer. Despite radical restructuring just three years ago, public debt has reached $114.7bn or 56% of gross domestic product, compared with $144.2bn, or 54% of GDP, in 2001.Argentina is now being affected by a problem without precedent; a conflict between the state and the farmers, which is virtually crippling Argentina's traditional economic activities. Yet, there is a much more serious underlying problem; the general sense of national impotence with the state failing to find even short-term solutions to the problems at hand in order to help resolve the crisis \u2013 in the Argentine collective imagination there is the fear, perhaps well-founded, that the country is descending into anarchy.Unless the farmers or the government begin to discuss their differences, Argentina could face even more violence in the streets, and the real possibility of social disintegration and political collapse.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: Conflict between Argentine farmers and the government causing unrest"},{"date": "2008-06-19T15:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine conscript border guards were as charmless a bunch of fellows as you'd expect to find dispatched to a deserted road on top of a freezing cold mountain. I imagine they are still there, which makes me feel better.Shortly, we were plunging down again, every 100-metre drop bringing air more syrupy and rich; every degree of temperature raised bringing back the real prospect that one day I might be able to straighten my fingers again. I was breathing extra gulps just for the fun of it.We pulled over at a cafe for coffee. Having coffee in Argentina after being in Chile should be the first thing one does, like the Pope kissing the ground at the foot of the aircraft steps. For coffee in Chile means a sachet of Nescafe and tepid water producing a lumpy gloop of extraordinary vileness. Great dogs, rubbish coffee. In Argentina, it involves a loving process of alchemy with freshly crushed beans and warmed milk and an end product of such ambrosial ecstasy that you instinctively close your eyes as it slides down your throat and sigh loudly. As in San Pedro de Atacama, things felt like a Paramount set. Gauchos tethered their horses to the hitching post and walked past us, ponchos and all, raising a finger to the rim of their cowboy hats, Cuban heels click-clacking on the ancient wood floor as hard as granite. Chevy and Dodge pickups circa 1930 filled up at the single pump, its dials whirring round.We spent the next few days riding through north-west Argentina. First down intestinal tracts of roads \u2013 the kind of roads that fill bikers' winter dreams \u2013 that wound their way around bald, crumpled hills that changed colour at every bend \u2013 green, pink, yellow, even aquamarine \u2013 like your TV being on the blink. Then along arid valleys of sandstone, with fluted columns like giant organ pipes and eroded rocks forming fantastical sculptures. We rode along the Valley of the Butterflies, millions of them forming fluttering clouds that we passed through, like riding in a kaleidoscope. Down from the mountains, we hit the plains. Mile after mile of vineyards, then brilliant yellow tobacco crops, their leaves drying on the walls of the pueblos we passed through, each with a whitewashed church and a dusty football pitch, the twin obsessions of Argentina. In the middle of nowhere, we passed processions of devotees, walking who knows where, carrying aloft the Virgin Mary. And always the waving and the smiling. Surely, if there was a country to steal your heart, this was it.We rode along highways so straight and so long that a 20-degree bend constituted extreme sport; past the pigs and the horses and the donkeys and the chickens that seemed to wander around the Pampas at will, as if Argentina was one giant free-range farm.My last day with the group was spent in Alta Gracia. The day after they would be heading off to Buenos Aires, where they'd started their trip five weeks and 5,000 miles before. I was to give Kev's wife Julia back her beloved BMW and would fly home from C\u00f3rdoba.We rode to Che Guevara's old family home, now a museum. We saw the original South American motorcycle poster boy's Norton \"La Poderosa II\". Or maybe it was a replica - my Spanish is poor. La Poderosa's journey ended in a ditch in Chile, Che's in a ditch in Bolivia. In every photograph, from childhood on, there is a raging fire in his eyes. In every photograph bar one, of course. There's a terrible sadness in the house, like you're at the wake of a close friend.That night, as on every night in Argentina, we dined in a fine restaurant and ate an entire herd of cattle. If you ask them nicely, they'll often bring you a sprig of lettuce as garnish as well. The food was washed down, as ever, with wine that felt so sublime on the tongue it seemed a crime to swallow it. The group talked about the trip, about Peru and Bolivia, Chile and Argentina, recalled the roads and the spills and the near misses and the things they had seen which would stay with them forever. For this had been an adventure, not a holiday; exposed and vulnerable on a bike, a part of the landscape through which you travel, it brings a real feeling of achievement, of movement, of sensual pleasure, of survival. Because no matter how many times the clich\u00e9 is repeated, it holds true: driving a car is like watching a movie; riding a motorcycle like being in one. And when the bill came, as on every night, we all looked at it with wonder as pesos to pounds was calculated and, as I glanced round, I sensed, I think, a collective thought: this is living, really living.Globebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from 21 April to 25 May 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015. In conjunction with BMW Rider Training, Globebusters also offer residential rider training courses at their base in South Wales.", "tags": ["Road trips", "South America holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Chile holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Che Guevara", "World news"], "title": "Great journeys: across South America by bike, part three"},{"date": "2008-06-05T13:16:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Oil spill threatens Buenos Aires >> Source: BBCWorkers are battling to dissolve an oil spill heading towards the coast of Argentina after two ships collided off the coast of neighbouring Uruguay.Mexico City smog hurting people's sense of smell >> Source: ReutersChronic pollution in Mexico City, which stains the sky yellow and can trigger government warnings to stay indoors, could be killing off residents' sense of smell, scientists say.Slovenia shuts down nuclear plant after cooling system leak >> Source: AFPLjubljana: Slovenia today began shutting down its only nuclear power plant in Krsko following a leak in the cooling system. Authorities said it does not represent a danger for people or the environment.Sites named for new UK offshore wind farms >>Source: Times onlineLondon: Eleven zones around Britain's coastline have been named as the best places to build the next generation of offshore wind farms. See them here on a map.Electricity from the exhaust pipe >> Source: Environmental News NetworkFreiburg, Germany: Researchers are working on a thermoelectric generator that converts the heat from car exhaust fumes into electricity.Drought declared in California >> Source: CNNSacramento, California: Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has declared a statewide drought after two years of below-average rainfall, low snow-melt runoff and a court-ordered restriction on water transfers.Spotted a good story online? Share your links below", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Oil spill threatens Argentina"},{"date": "2008-04-02T17:01:16Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The late Guido di Tella, the intellectual and Anglophile Argentine foreign minister during the corrupt government of Carlos Menem in the 1990s, used to express the hope that Argentina, after its tragic experiences in the second half of the 20th century, would one day become a \"normal\" country. Casting around for examples of normality, his eye fell on New Zealand and Austria.Many Argentines coming from European immigrant stock used to subscribe to Di Tella's bizarre and unachievable desire. Such people had always believed their country to be a prosperous western outpost that had deviated from the European tradition of development and would eventually return to its original roots. Such a vision was conjured up by Argentine politicians and historians for more than a century; today it is coming under sustained attack.Argentina has been waking up to a different reality. It has dawned on progressive elements within the ruling elite that they are firmly and irrevocably situated not in Europe but in Latin America, a continent that they share with many different peoples with diverse traditions. Already, in neighbouring countries such as Bolivia, these peoples have begun to recover and celebrate their long-lost indigenous heritage, reviving the ancient conflict between Indians and white settlers. This new-found perception in Argentina of its geographical circumstances, in a society of long-established and self-satisfied conservatism, not to say racism, lies at the heart of a slow-burning cultural revolution that is gradually transforming the country. Under the auspices of Nestor and Cristina Kirchner, the husband-and-wife presidential team that have ruled since 2003 - Nestor since May that year, Cristina since last December - the image and reality of Argentina is beginning to change. Contested and controversial, and hated by the traditional ruling class, this impressive political couple have presided over the country's economic recovery after the spectacular banking collapse of 2001, establishing the best and most popular government in more than half a century. Among their achievements is the promotion of a national re-examination of what it means to be Argentine in the 21st century. In 2010, the country will celebrate the 200th anniversary of its independence from Spain, and President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has appealed for the construction, beyond party loyalties, of a \"bicentennial national agreement\" that will define the model of its future development. At stake are fresh readings of the country's history as well as of its ethnic composition, subjects that Argentines have traditionally been reluctant to contemplate.Argentina is a country that I once knew well, and many of the youthful figures that I knew in the 1960s and 70s are now running the country. I have never forgotten an extraordinary night some 35 years ago, in March 1973, when the Peronists won their first electoral victory since their charismatic leader Juan Per\u00f3n was overthrown by a military coup in 1955. The explosion of freedom after years of military rule, and the expectation of many young people that the country was about to change for the better, was palpable. On that autumn day in 1973, H\u00e9ctor C\u00e1mpora, Per\u00f3n's dentist, had won the presidential election, and I watched in the streets of Buenos Aires as the military police, sent out on motorcycles in anti-riot gear, were suddenly overwhelmed by the euphoria of the crowds. Forced to dismount from their machines, they were wildly embraced by demonstrators waving the light blue national flag. It was a revolutionary moment, one swiftly followed by others, including the release of all political prisoners, the re-establishment of relations with Cuba, and radical educational reforms. Among those caught up in the excitement of the time were two young law students at the University of La Plata, Nestor Kirchner and Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez.As with most of Latin America's radical experiments in the 20th century, the Peronist government ended in disaster. Guerrilla opposition grew as rightwing paramilitaries sought to silence the left, and in a grim atmosphere of increasing violence, a military putsch in 1976 by General Jorge Videla inaugurated six years of a \"dirty war\", waged principally against young people. No one under 30 was safe. A terrible civilian slaughter, with 30,000 dead or \"disappeared\", was to mark the country until today. Although the military gangsters were expelled after their invasion of the Falkland Islands in 1982, devised by General Leopoldo Galtieri, Argentina has taken two decades to recover. Before flying to Argentina on this present occasion I dug out an old Latin American contacts book from the early 1970s. As I looked at the names, I realised how many had been murdered in subsequent years. My notebook included Argentine journalists and politicians, Uruguayan senators, Bolivian army officers, Chilean academics and Brazilian peasant leaders - a typical cross-section of the people a journalist might expect to encounter or befriend. Some were \"disappeared\", others were shot or blown up. Several ended up on the grass verge on the road to the airport at Ezeiza, dumped there out of the Ford Falcons of the death squads. The Kirchners escaped from the dangers that touched so many of their generation. Married in 1976, they moved out of immediate danger in La Plata to the far south of Patagonia, to Nestor's home state of Santa Cruz. Here the military repression of young leftists was less intense. The Kirchners established a law firm in Rio Gallegos, and gingerly re-entered politics after the collapse of the generals' regime in the 80s. Nestor Kirchner became the governor of Santa Cruz, while Cristina was elected to the senate in Buenos Aires. From these provincial origins, they both established themselves on the national stage, re-embracing the Peronist cause and not forgetting the radicalism of their youth. They moved into the Casa Rosada, the presidential palace in Buenos Aires, in May 2003, and were given the teasing title of \"the Penguins\" in honour of their south Atlantic provenance. By rescheduling the country's massive debt of $84bn, and taking no further advice from the International Monetary Fund, Nestor Kirchner presided over a sustained period of economic expansion.Many of the ministers in the Kirchner governments are the heirs of those involved in the ferment of the 70s, and they have played their part in ensuring that the past is not forgotten. Nestor Kirchner persuaded the congress in 2003 to abolish the amnesty laws that had protected the military from prosecution, while Cristina was the inspiration behind the creation of a \"Museum of Memory\" in the building that once housed the Escuela Superior de la Mec\u00e1nica de la Armada (ESMA), the engineering school of the navy used as an interrogation and torture centre.The dirty war remains a central, unforgettable and contemporary element in Argentina's history. It is fresh in many minds, not least in the Kirchners', who have given solid support to the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, the formidable \"mothers\" who began organising in the first years of the Videla dictatorship to protest against the disappearance of their children. The Madres are now a powerful leftwing political organisation, and in the central square outside the congress, I found their prominently placed bookshop and coffee house. I have seen members of the Madres hawking their consciences around the continent in various countries in recent years, from Ecuador to Cuba, and I used to feel that they belonged to an era that was over. Surely it was time for Argentina to get on with a new life? Yet that is not at all the mood in Buenos Aires today. Constant reference is made in the media to the events of the 70s, with memorial notices and church services to recall the names of those who disappeared. As well ask the Jews to forget about the Holocaust, or the Spaniards to forget the civil war. The macabre story of the children born to prisoners here (and at a similar centre in La Plata) and then handed over for adoption to families of military officers has been told in a film by Estela Bravo, The Found Children of Argentina, recently shown on British television. The Abuelas de la Plaza de Mayo, a sister organisation of the Madres, was set up to mobilise the \"grandmothers\" to inquire into the fate of their grandchildren, more than 500 of whom were missing. DNA testing at the national genetic databank has eventually enabled 100 of them, now adults, to discover who they really are, and to rejoin what is left of their real families. They are never out of the news. One is a member of congress; others have embarked on high-profile prosecutions of their adoptive parents.To discuss the fate of the prisoners at the ESMA torture centre, I called on Horacio Verbitsky, an old friend from my 70s notebook, locating him in a tiny book-lined study in a building close to the law courts. Verbitsky is a writer and investigative journalist who wrote a notable book, The Flight, describing the military practice of throwing their tortured victims, drugged and bound, from aeroplanes into the waters of the river Plate. These were the parents of the children subsequently adopted. Known as \"El Perro\" for his terrier-like capacity to pursue his investigations, Verbitsky is now the president of the Centre for Legal and Social Studies, a human rights organisation that seeks to address the abuses of the military government. He does not take such an extreme leftist line as the Madres, but is a passionate advocate of the Kirchner government, and a powerful critic of the country's prosperous middle class and its \"social hatred\" of the provincial upstarts from Patagonia. He praises the way in which the Kirchners have cleaned up the country's legal system, making impeccable appointments to the supreme court and bringing in women judges to challenge the traditional male supremacy. Verbitsky is also a significant revisionist historian, arousing fresh controversy recently with a documented account of the misdemeanours of the Catholic church, long one of the pillars of the Argentine state. While some priests were imprisoned and killed, several senior bishops gave open support to the military. Refusing to concern themselves with the fate of the disappeared, they lunched regularly with army commanders. Verbitsky's revelations have made it difficult for the church to re-establish itself as an ethical reference point in Argentine society.Another friend on the list of survivors in my notebook is Jos\u00e9 Nun, a sociologist I knew when he lived in exile in Chile. Today, aged 70, he is the minister of culture, a strategic position in a government seeking a redefinition of its historical traditions. I went to see him in the ornate old palace that his ministry occupies in Buenos Aires, and found him as enthusiastic as I remembered him, bubbling over with schemes and projects. Spurred on by the imminent bicentenary celebrations, he is financing a research programme that delves into the social history of the past two centuries. We need, he says, to explain \"how and why we are what we are\". Only then can the people of Argentina decide how their country's direction might be changed or maintained. The first fruits of this initiative are an immense two-volume collection of essays. Our central objective, says Nun, is \"to re-examine and debate our successes and failures\". One crucial fact discussed in these volumes was the arrival of 7 million immigrants from Europe in the half-century between 1870 and 1915. At the same time, although this is not a topic on which Argentines care to dwell, the local Indian population was slaughtered in successive military campaigns to make room for the settlers. Two under-visited museums in Buenos Aires tell part of the story.In the old dock area, past the forgotten, once British-owned railway stations and across a crowded motorway, stands the National Immigration Museum, an immense, empty and almost inaccessible building. This is Argentina's Ellis Island, a \"Gran Hotel\" completed in 1911 that processed tens of thousands of impecunious European immigrants. More reminiscent of a concentration camp than an induction centre, its vast spaces accommodated an eating hall on the ground floor, and sleeping and washing facilities for men and women on the floors above. An exhibition of photographs shows the arrival of peasants from Friuli and Dalmatia, then in the Austro-Hungarian empire. They were destined for settlement in the northern frontier provinces from which the Indians were being removed.Another rarely visited museum stands a block from the Plaza de Mayo. The Juan Ambrosetti Ethnographic Museum, part of the university of Buenos Aires, contains photographs and artefacts concerning these same Indians from the north, while an exhibition about Tierra del Fuego in the south examines how Indian society was destroyed by European missionaries in the 19th century, a story reminiscent of the extermination of the Aborigines of Tasmania. These museums represent two facets of Argentina's cultural heritage that are rarely considered together, except in the work of another revisionist. Osvaldo Bayer, after whom the coffee shop of the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo was named, was notorious in the 70s as the author of La Patagonia Rebelde, an account of an army massacre of rural workers in Patagonia in 1922. Exiled in the 70s and now over 80, Bayer has turned his attention from the struggles of workers to the decimation of the country's original peoples in the 19th century. He is one of the few historians to link the dirty war of the 1970s with the dirty war against the Indians of the 1880s. The chief author of the 19th-century massacres was General Julio Roca, honoured until recently as one of the country's most eminent figures. Twice president between 1880 and 1904, Roca is now remembered for his \"Campaign in the Desert\" in 1879, in the south-central zone of the country. Thousands of Indians were killed, and the great central area of the pampas was prepared for European immigration. Further campaigns took place on the northern frontier with Paraguay, and here too the land was cleared for immigrants. Some now consider Roca the \"Hitler\" of Argentina's \"final solution\", and Bayer has edited a book, The History of Argentine Cruelty, that paints a dark picture of the time. Roca's huge statue in Buenos Aires is regularly decorated with the slogan \"Genocidio\". A more controversial subject is the ethnic makeup of the population, for so long considered largely white and European. The DNA centre that has reunited the children of the \"disappeared\" with their families has produced some interesting findings. Recent research into Argentines' DNA suggests that 56% have at least partly indigenous blood. \"We are not as European as we think we are,\" says Daniel Corach, director of the Service of Genetic Digital Tracing of the University of Buenos Aires. A 12-year research project, from 1992 to 2004, examined the DNA of 12,000 people in 11 provinces. As well as noting that only 44% of the population were of European origin, it concluded that 10% were pure Indians. Since the current population of Argentina is approximately 36 million, this suggests that 20 million people are of indigenous origin (of which 3.6 million are pure Indians), while only 16 million can trace their ancestry back to Europe.This is far from the understanding that most urban Argentines have of the ethnic makeup of their country. They continue to believe that they live in a largely white country with a tiny handful of Indians sprinkled about in the furthest provinces. Yet step into the ancient and inadequate metro system of Buenos Aires and you are at once aware of a population totally unlike the children of Italians and Spaniards who travel above ground. Below, a large proportion of the travellers still have Indian faces and complexions. Join the almost daily demonstrations of the piqueteros, the unemployed organisation that enjoys as much support from the Kirchners as do the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, and you receive the same impression. Argentina is more of an Indian country than the history books have led its people to suppose. Recognition of this fact is one of the conclusions that will emerge from Cristina Kirchner's bicentennial desire to re-examine the historical record. It will not bring about the \"normality\" that Guido di Tella envisaged, but accepting this reality in the 21st century will hasten the country's integration into a continent already rejecting its white settler traditions.\u00b7 The following clarification was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday April 5 2008. We said in a subheading that the president of Argentina, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, was due to visit the UK. In fact she had already cancelled the trip because of a farmers' protest.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Architects of the new Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-17T12:46:21Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "On March 11 Argentina's President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced a series of taxes on farm exports such as soya and wheat. Aimed at curbing inflation and improving Argentina's ever worsening fiscal balance, it was the second major agricultural tax hike in just four months. The announcement proved to be the final straw for thousands of Argentine farmers who, incensed by the new taxes, blocked every major highway in the country. The blockades have continued now for over three months during which time supermarket shelves have slowly emptied and prices for foodstuffs have rocketed. One of the sectors most hard hit by the farmer's revolt has been tourism. According to recent figures released by the Argentine Business Federation of Hotels and Restaurants the first three weeks of the blockades alone caused loses in the Argentine tourist industry of 73 million pesos (around $24 million). At the same time thousands of jobs in the tourist industry are now at risk and many hotels and restaurants in Argentina face the possibility of imminent closure unless the blockades are lifted.Last weekend was a bank holiday in Argentina but, with over 300 roads blocked, an estimated 60% of coaches were marooned on highways and bus stations all over the country. Many coach companies simply stopped issuing tickets altogether. Long distance coach companies also reported a 40% drop in ticket sales in comparison with other weekends. In response hundreds of tourist industry workers descended on Highway 14 in the province of Entre Rios to vent their frustration at the farmers for the damage they have caused to the tourist industry and the thousands of jobs they are now putting at risk. Since the devaluation of the peso Argentina has become an increasingly popular tourist destination and the number of tourists has continued to go up year on year by around 10% since 2003. As yet there are no official figures revealing the impact that the crisis has had on the number of foreign visitors entering Argentina but it is likely that the crisis will be most felt in the budget travel sector. This is because the cheapest way to see Argentina is by long-distance coach. Coaches have been held up in some instances for days during the last three months. Making matters worse for the tourist industry is the fact that the farm workers strike has happened at a time when economists believe that inflation is running at least twice the official rate of 8%. This, coupled with food shortages, is making life very hard for hotel owners all over the county.\"The strike has no doubt affected our business, but it has occurred at a time of the year which is historically slow, so it's hard to gauge how much it has hurt,\" said John Johnston, owner of the Castillo Hotel in Salta. \"In the next month we may have a clearer picture. But what really is clearly curtailing commercial activity in general is inflation, exacerbated by the agricultural paralysis. \"One year ago a kilo of filet cost us 12 pesos ($4) - it's now up to 24 pesos ($8) and with the blockades it has been sometimes difficult to find in the last few months. International travellers probably don't perceive the problem unless they go to the same restaurant or hotel over a period of time. Of course, Argentina has a propensity towards inflation, and chaos, and the current government is promoting both.\"This feeling is echoed amongst other hotel owners around the country who might be sympathetic to the farmer's cause but are now blaming the farmers and an uncompromising government for their plight. While the stand off is now officially at an end after the government agreed to a reduction in export duty caps last week, many farmers have refused to call off protest action and hundreds of main roads remain blocked. Now Argentine truck drivers, many of whom have spent the last three months out of work due to the blockade, are also blocking roads. The truck drivers want guarantees that the farmers will reopen the grain trade for good. With no guarantees forthcoming the blockades are likely to continue.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Farmers' revolt hits tourist industry in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-17T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentines are very worried about their future. On Sunday farmers began their fourth strike in three months in reaction to the government's introduction in March of a new sliding scale of tax tariffs on grain and oilseed. The farmers are demanding that the president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, performs a U-turn on these laws.At least 300 motorways in the country were blocked by protesters, which saw dramatic clashes with police on Saturday and Sunday. Alfredo De Angeli, the prominent farming leader and a rising voice of dissent against the Argentine government, was briefly arrested at a roadblock in Entre Rios province (north of Buenos Aires).In response to these protests, and very symbolically for many Argentines, pro-government groups have called for a rally in Plaza de Mayo tomorrow, in front of the Casa Rosada. The roadblocks have caused things to deteriorate rapidly; there are shortages of basic goods such as flour, milk and meat, an incomprehensible situation for a country well known for its agricultural economy. Argentines were shocked to see up to 880,000 gallons of spoiled milk being drained from milk tankers and horrified by the sight of grain being burned alongside the motorways. The blockades are sparking fuel shortages, which has led to reduced bus services, and has sparked social unrest.The anger and frustration has led to hundreds of Argentines taking to the streets, many banging pots and pans to show their discontent with the government. For most citizens these scenes are vividly reminiscent of the economic collapse after the country defaulted on its national debt in 2001.According to a report to be published this week by the Argentine institutions and markets research centre at Eseade business school, Argentina's debt levels are now higher than they were when the economy crashed \u2013 at that time the largest crash of its kind in history. The paper's authors, Mart\u00edn Krause and Aldo Abram, believe that a worsening crisis of confidence in the government has brought the spectre of a new default closer. Despite radical restructuring just three years ago, public debt has reached $114.7bn or 56% of gross domestic product, compared with $144.2bn, or 54% of GDP, in 2001.Argentina is now being affected by a problem without precedent; a conflict between the state and the farmers, which is virtually crippling Argentina's traditional economic activities. Yet, there is a much more serious underlying problem; the general sense of national impotence with the state failing to find even short-term solutions to the problems at hand in order to help resolve the crisis \u2013 in the Argentine collective imagination there is the fear, perhaps well-founded, that the country is descending into anarchy.Unless the farmers or the government begin to discuss their differences, Argentina could face even more violence in the streets, and the real possibility of social disintegration and political collapse.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: Conflict between Argentine farmers and the government causing unrest"},{"date": "2008-06-19T15:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine conscript border guards were as charmless a bunch of fellows as you'd expect to find dispatched to a deserted road on top of a freezing cold mountain. I imagine they are still there, which makes me feel better.Shortly, we were plunging down again, every 100-metre drop bringing air more syrupy and rich; every degree of temperature raised bringing back the real prospect that one day I might be able to straighten my fingers again. I was breathing extra gulps just for the fun of it.We pulled over at a cafe for coffee. Having coffee in Argentina after being in Chile should be the first thing one does, like the Pope kissing the ground at the foot of the aircraft steps. For coffee in Chile means a sachet of Nescafe and tepid water producing a lumpy gloop of extraordinary vileness. Great dogs, rubbish coffee. In Argentina, it involves a loving process of alchemy with freshly crushed beans and warmed milk and an end product of such ambrosial ecstasy that you instinctively close your eyes as it slides down your throat and sigh loudly. As in San Pedro de Atacama, things felt like a Paramount set. Gauchos tethered their horses to the hitching post and walked past us, ponchos and all, raising a finger to the rim of their cowboy hats, Cuban heels click-clacking on the ancient wood floor as hard as granite. Chevy and Dodge pickups circa 1930 filled up at the single pump, its dials whirring round.We spent the next few days riding through north-west Argentina. First down intestinal tracts of roads \u2013 the kind of roads that fill bikers' winter dreams \u2013 that wound their way around bald, crumpled hills that changed colour at every bend \u2013 green, pink, yellow, even aquamarine \u2013 like your TV being on the blink. Then along arid valleys of sandstone, with fluted columns like giant organ pipes and eroded rocks forming fantastical sculptures. We rode along the Valley of the Butterflies, millions of them forming fluttering clouds that we passed through, like riding in a kaleidoscope. Down from the mountains, we hit the plains. Mile after mile of vineyards, then brilliant yellow tobacco crops, their leaves drying on the walls of the pueblos we passed through, each with a whitewashed church and a dusty football pitch, the twin obsessions of Argentina. In the middle of nowhere, we passed processions of devotees, walking who knows where, carrying aloft the Virgin Mary. And always the waving and the smiling. Surely, if there was a country to steal your heart, this was it.We rode along highways so straight and so long that a 20-degree bend constituted extreme sport; past the pigs and the horses and the donkeys and the chickens that seemed to wander around the Pampas at will, as if Argentina was one giant free-range farm.My last day with the group was spent in Alta Gracia. The day after they would be heading off to Buenos Aires, where they'd started their trip five weeks and 5,000 miles before. I was to give Kev's wife Julia back her beloved BMW and would fly home from C\u00f3rdoba.We rode to Che Guevara's old family home, now a museum. We saw the original South American motorcycle poster boy's Norton \"La Poderosa II\". Or maybe it was a replica - my Spanish is poor. La Poderosa's journey ended in a ditch in Chile, Che's in a ditch in Bolivia. In every photograph, from childhood on, there is a raging fire in his eyes. In every photograph bar one, of course. There's a terrible sadness in the house, like you're at the wake of a close friend.That night, as on every night in Argentina, we dined in a fine restaurant and ate an entire herd of cattle. If you ask them nicely, they'll often bring you a sprig of lettuce as garnish as well. The food was washed down, as ever, with wine that felt so sublime on the tongue it seemed a crime to swallow it. The group talked about the trip, about Peru and Bolivia, Chile and Argentina, recalled the roads and the spills and the near misses and the things they had seen which would stay with them forever. For this had been an adventure, not a holiday; exposed and vulnerable on a bike, a part of the landscape through which you travel, it brings a real feeling of achievement, of movement, of sensual pleasure, of survival. Because no matter how many times the clich\u00e9 is repeated, it holds true: driving a car is like watching a movie; riding a motorcycle like being in one. And when the bill came, as on every night, we all looked at it with wonder as pesos to pounds was calculated and, as I glanced round, I sensed, I think, a collective thought: this is living, really living.Globebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from 21 April to 25 May 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015. In conjunction with BMW Rider Training, Globebusters also offer residential rider training courses at their base in South Wales.", "tags": ["Road trips", "South America holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Chile holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Che Guevara", "World news"], "title": "Great journeys: across South America by bike, part three"},{"date": "2008-06-05T13:16:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Oil spill threatens Buenos Aires >> Source: BBCWorkers are battling to dissolve an oil spill heading towards the coast of Argentina after two ships collided off the coast of neighbouring Uruguay.Mexico City smog hurting people's sense of smell >> Source: ReutersChronic pollution in Mexico City, which stains the sky yellow and can trigger government warnings to stay indoors, could be killing off residents' sense of smell, scientists say.Slovenia shuts down nuclear plant after cooling system leak >> Source: AFPLjubljana: Slovenia today began shutting down its only nuclear power plant in Krsko following a leak in the cooling system. Authorities said it does not represent a danger for people or the environment.Sites named for new UK offshore wind farms >>Source: Times onlineLondon: Eleven zones around Britain's coastline have been named as the best places to build the next generation of offshore wind farms. See them here on a map.Electricity from the exhaust pipe >> Source: Environmental News NetworkFreiburg, Germany: Researchers are working on a thermoelectric generator that converts the heat from car exhaust fumes into electricity.Drought declared in California >> Source: CNNSacramento, California: Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has declared a statewide drought after two years of below-average rainfall, low snow-melt runoff and a court-ordered restriction on water transfers.Spotted a good story online? Share your links below", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Oil spill threatens Argentina"},{"date": "2008-04-02T17:01:16Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The late Guido di Tella, the intellectual and Anglophile Argentine foreign minister during the corrupt government of Carlos Menem in the 1990s, used to express the hope that Argentina, after its tragic experiences in the second half of the 20th century, would one day become a \"normal\" country. Casting around for examples of normality, his eye fell on New Zealand and Austria.Many Argentines coming from European immigrant stock used to subscribe to Di Tella's bizarre and unachievable desire. Such people had always believed their country to be a prosperous western outpost that had deviated from the European tradition of development and would eventually return to its original roots. Such a vision was conjured up by Argentine politicians and historians for more than a century; today it is coming under sustained attack.Argentina has been waking up to a different reality. It has dawned on progressive elements within the ruling elite that they are firmly and irrevocably situated not in Europe but in Latin America, a continent that they share with many different peoples with diverse traditions. Already, in neighbouring countries such as Bolivia, these peoples have begun to recover and celebrate their long-lost indigenous heritage, reviving the ancient conflict between Indians and white settlers. This new-found perception in Argentina of its geographical circumstances, in a society of long-established and self-satisfied conservatism, not to say racism, lies at the heart of a slow-burning cultural revolution that is gradually transforming the country. Under the auspices of Nestor and Cristina Kirchner, the husband-and-wife presidential team that have ruled since 2003 - Nestor since May that year, Cristina since last December - the image and reality of Argentina is beginning to change. Contested and controversial, and hated by the traditional ruling class, this impressive political couple have presided over the country's economic recovery after the spectacular banking collapse of 2001, establishing the best and most popular government in more than half a century. Among their achievements is the promotion of a national re-examination of what it means to be Argentine in the 21st century. In 2010, the country will celebrate the 200th anniversary of its independence from Spain, and President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has appealed for the construction, beyond party loyalties, of a \"bicentennial national agreement\" that will define the model of its future development. At stake are fresh readings of the country's history as well as of its ethnic composition, subjects that Argentines have traditionally been reluctant to contemplate.Argentina is a country that I once knew well, and many of the youthful figures that I knew in the 1960s and 70s are now running the country. I have never forgotten an extraordinary night some 35 years ago, in March 1973, when the Peronists won their first electoral victory since their charismatic leader Juan Per\u00f3n was overthrown by a military coup in 1955. The explosion of freedom after years of military rule, and the expectation of many young people that the country was about to change for the better, was palpable. On that autumn day in 1973, H\u00e9ctor C\u00e1mpora, Per\u00f3n's dentist, had won the presidential election, and I watched in the streets of Buenos Aires as the military police, sent out on motorcycles in anti-riot gear, were suddenly overwhelmed by the euphoria of the crowds. Forced to dismount from their machines, they were wildly embraced by demonstrators waving the light blue national flag. It was a revolutionary moment, one swiftly followed by others, including the release of all political prisoners, the re-establishment of relations with Cuba, and radical educational reforms. Among those caught up in the excitement of the time were two young law students at the University of La Plata, Nestor Kirchner and Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez.As with most of Latin America's radical experiments in the 20th century, the Peronist government ended in disaster. Guerrilla opposition grew as rightwing paramilitaries sought to silence the left, and in a grim atmosphere of increasing violence, a military putsch in 1976 by General Jorge Videla inaugurated six years of a \"dirty war\", waged principally against young people. No one under 30 was safe. A terrible civilian slaughter, with 30,000 dead or \"disappeared\", was to mark the country until today. Although the military gangsters were expelled after their invasion of the Falkland Islands in 1982, devised by General Leopoldo Galtieri, Argentina has taken two decades to recover. Before flying to Argentina on this present occasion I dug out an old Latin American contacts book from the early 1970s. As I looked at the names, I realised how many had been murdered in subsequent years. My notebook included Argentine journalists and politicians, Uruguayan senators, Bolivian army officers, Chilean academics and Brazilian peasant leaders - a typical cross-section of the people a journalist might expect to encounter or befriend. Some were \"disappeared\", others were shot or blown up. Several ended up on the grass verge on the road to the airport at Ezeiza, dumped there out of the Ford Falcons of the death squads. The Kirchners escaped from the dangers that touched so many of their generation. Married in 1976, they moved out of immediate danger in La Plata to the far south of Patagonia, to Nestor's home state of Santa Cruz. Here the military repression of young leftists was less intense. The Kirchners established a law firm in Rio Gallegos, and gingerly re-entered politics after the collapse of the generals' regime in the 80s. Nestor Kirchner became the governor of Santa Cruz, while Cristina was elected to the senate in Buenos Aires. From these provincial origins, they both established themselves on the national stage, re-embracing the Peronist cause and not forgetting the radicalism of their youth. They moved into the Casa Rosada, the presidential palace in Buenos Aires, in May 2003, and were given the teasing title of \"the Penguins\" in honour of their south Atlantic provenance. By rescheduling the country's massive debt of $84bn, and taking no further advice from the International Monetary Fund, Nestor Kirchner presided over a sustained period of economic expansion.Many of the ministers in the Kirchner governments are the heirs of those involved in the ferment of the 70s, and they have played their part in ensuring that the past is not forgotten. Nestor Kirchner persuaded the congress in 2003 to abolish the amnesty laws that had protected the military from prosecution, while Cristina was the inspiration behind the creation of a \"Museum of Memory\" in the building that once housed the Escuela Superior de la Mec\u00e1nica de la Armada (ESMA), the engineering school of the navy used as an interrogation and torture centre.The dirty war remains a central, unforgettable and contemporary element in Argentina's history. It is fresh in many minds, not least in the Kirchners', who have given solid support to the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, the formidable \"mothers\" who began organising in the first years of the Videla dictatorship to protest against the disappearance of their children. The Madres are now a powerful leftwing political organisation, and in the central square outside the congress, I found their prominently placed bookshop and coffee house. I have seen members of the Madres hawking their consciences around the continent in various countries in recent years, from Ecuador to Cuba, and I used to feel that they belonged to an era that was over. Surely it was time for Argentina to get on with a new life? Yet that is not at all the mood in Buenos Aires today. Constant reference is made in the media to the events of the 70s, with memorial notices and church services to recall the names of those who disappeared. As well ask the Jews to forget about the Holocaust, or the Spaniards to forget the civil war. The macabre story of the children born to prisoners here (and at a similar centre in La Plata) and then handed over for adoption to families of military officers has been told in a film by Estela Bravo, The Found Children of Argentina, recently shown on British television. The Abuelas de la Plaza de Mayo, a sister organisation of the Madres, was set up to mobilise the \"grandmothers\" to inquire into the fate of their grandchildren, more than 500 of whom were missing. DNA testing at the national genetic databank has eventually enabled 100 of them, now adults, to discover who they really are, and to rejoin what is left of their real families. They are never out of the news. One is a member of congress; others have embarked on high-profile prosecutions of their adoptive parents.To discuss the fate of the prisoners at the ESMA torture centre, I called on Horacio Verbitsky, an old friend from my 70s notebook, locating him in a tiny book-lined study in a building close to the law courts. Verbitsky is a writer and investigative journalist who wrote a notable book, The Flight, describing the military practice of throwing their tortured victims, drugged and bound, from aeroplanes into the waters of the river Plate. These were the parents of the children subsequently adopted. Known as \"El Perro\" for his terrier-like capacity to pursue his investigations, Verbitsky is now the president of the Centre for Legal and Social Studies, a human rights organisation that seeks to address the abuses of the military government. He does not take such an extreme leftist line as the Madres, but is a passionate advocate of the Kirchner government, and a powerful critic of the country's prosperous middle class and its \"social hatred\" of the provincial upstarts from Patagonia. He praises the way in which the Kirchners have cleaned up the country's legal system, making impeccable appointments to the supreme court and bringing in women judges to challenge the traditional male supremacy. Verbitsky is also a significant revisionist historian, arousing fresh controversy recently with a documented account of the misdemeanours of the Catholic church, long one of the pillars of the Argentine state. While some priests were imprisoned and killed, several senior bishops gave open support to the military. Refusing to concern themselves with the fate of the disappeared, they lunched regularly with army commanders. Verbitsky's revelations have made it difficult for the church to re-establish itself as an ethical reference point in Argentine society.Another friend on the list of survivors in my notebook is Jos\u00e9 Nun, a sociologist I knew when he lived in exile in Chile. Today, aged 70, he is the minister of culture, a strategic position in a government seeking a redefinition of its historical traditions. I went to see him in the ornate old palace that his ministry occupies in Buenos Aires, and found him as enthusiastic as I remembered him, bubbling over with schemes and projects. Spurred on by the imminent bicentenary celebrations, he is financing a research programme that delves into the social history of the past two centuries. We need, he says, to explain \"how and why we are what we are\". Only then can the people of Argentina decide how their country's direction might be changed or maintained. The first fruits of this initiative are an immense two-volume collection of essays. Our central objective, says Nun, is \"to re-examine and debate our successes and failures\". One crucial fact discussed in these volumes was the arrival of 7 million immigrants from Europe in the half-century between 1870 and 1915. At the same time, although this is not a topic on which Argentines care to dwell, the local Indian population was slaughtered in successive military campaigns to make room for the settlers. Two under-visited museums in Buenos Aires tell part of the story.In the old dock area, past the forgotten, once British-owned railway stations and across a crowded motorway, stands the National Immigration Museum, an immense, empty and almost inaccessible building. This is Argentina's Ellis Island, a \"Gran Hotel\" completed in 1911 that processed tens of thousands of impecunious European immigrants. More reminiscent of a concentration camp than an induction centre, its vast spaces accommodated an eating hall on the ground floor, and sleeping and washing facilities for men and women on the floors above. An exhibition of photographs shows the arrival of peasants from Friuli and Dalmatia, then in the Austro-Hungarian empire. They were destined for settlement in the northern frontier provinces from which the Indians were being removed.Another rarely visited museum stands a block from the Plaza de Mayo. The Juan Ambrosetti Ethnographic Museum, part of the university of Buenos Aires, contains photographs and artefacts concerning these same Indians from the north, while an exhibition about Tierra del Fuego in the south examines how Indian society was destroyed by European missionaries in the 19th century, a story reminiscent of the extermination of the Aborigines of Tasmania. These museums represent two facets of Argentina's cultural heritage that are rarely considered together, except in the work of another revisionist. Osvaldo Bayer, after whom the coffee shop of the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo was named, was notorious in the 70s as the author of La Patagonia Rebelde, an account of an army massacre of rural workers in Patagonia in 1922. Exiled in the 70s and now over 80, Bayer has turned his attention from the struggles of workers to the decimation of the country's original peoples in the 19th century. He is one of the few historians to link the dirty war of the 1970s with the dirty war against the Indians of the 1880s. The chief author of the 19th-century massacres was General Julio Roca, honoured until recently as one of the country's most eminent figures. Twice president between 1880 and 1904, Roca is now remembered for his \"Campaign in the Desert\" in 1879, in the south-central zone of the country. Thousands of Indians were killed, and the great central area of the pampas was prepared for European immigration. Further campaigns took place on the northern frontier with Paraguay, and here too the land was cleared for immigrants. Some now consider Roca the \"Hitler\" of Argentina's \"final solution\", and Bayer has edited a book, The History of Argentine Cruelty, that paints a dark picture of the time. Roca's huge statue in Buenos Aires is regularly decorated with the slogan \"Genocidio\". A more controversial subject is the ethnic makeup of the population, for so long considered largely white and European. The DNA centre that has reunited the children of the \"disappeared\" with their families has produced some interesting findings. Recent research into Argentines' DNA suggests that 56% have at least partly indigenous blood. \"We are not as European as we think we are,\" says Daniel Corach, director of the Service of Genetic Digital Tracing of the University of Buenos Aires. A 12-year research project, from 1992 to 2004, examined the DNA of 12,000 people in 11 provinces. As well as noting that only 44% of the population were of European origin, it concluded that 10% were pure Indians. Since the current population of Argentina is approximately 36 million, this suggests that 20 million people are of indigenous origin (of which 3.6 million are pure Indians), while only 16 million can trace their ancestry back to Europe.This is far from the understanding that most urban Argentines have of the ethnic makeup of their country. They continue to believe that they live in a largely white country with a tiny handful of Indians sprinkled about in the furthest provinces. Yet step into the ancient and inadequate metro system of Buenos Aires and you are at once aware of a population totally unlike the children of Italians and Spaniards who travel above ground. Below, a large proportion of the travellers still have Indian faces and complexions. Join the almost daily demonstrations of the piqueteros, the unemployed organisation that enjoys as much support from the Kirchners as do the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, and you receive the same impression. Argentina is more of an Indian country than the history books have led its people to suppose. Recognition of this fact is one of the conclusions that will emerge from Cristina Kirchner's bicentennial desire to re-examine the historical record. It will not bring about the \"normality\" that Guido di Tella envisaged, but accepting this reality in the 21st century will hasten the country's integration into a continent already rejecting its white settler traditions.\u00b7 The following clarification was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday April 5 2008. We said in a subheading that the president of Argentina, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, was due to visit the UK. In fact she had already cancelled the trip because of a farmers' protest.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Architects of the new Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-17T12:46:21Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "On March 11 Argentina's President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced a series of taxes on farm exports such as soya and wheat. Aimed at curbing inflation and improving Argentina's ever worsening fiscal balance, it was the second major agricultural tax hike in just four months. The announcement proved to be the final straw for thousands of Argentine farmers who, incensed by the new taxes, blocked every major highway in the country. The blockades have continued now for over three months during which time supermarket shelves have slowly emptied and prices for foodstuffs have rocketed. One of the sectors most hard hit by the farmer's revolt has been tourism. According to recent figures released by the Argentine Business Federation of Hotels and Restaurants the first three weeks of the blockades alone caused loses in the Argentine tourist industry of 73 million pesos (around $24 million). At the same time thousands of jobs in the tourist industry are now at risk and many hotels and restaurants in Argentina face the possibility of imminent closure unless the blockades are lifted.Last weekend was a bank holiday in Argentina but, with over 300 roads blocked, an estimated 60% of coaches were marooned on highways and bus stations all over the country. Many coach companies simply stopped issuing tickets altogether. Long distance coach companies also reported a 40% drop in ticket sales in comparison with other weekends. In response hundreds of tourist industry workers descended on Highway 14 in the province of Entre Rios to vent their frustration at the farmers for the damage they have caused to the tourist industry and the thousands of jobs they are now putting at risk. Since the devaluation of the peso Argentina has become an increasingly popular tourist destination and the number of tourists has continued to go up year on year by around 10% since 2003. As yet there are no official figures revealing the impact that the crisis has had on the number of foreign visitors entering Argentina but it is likely that the crisis will be most felt in the budget travel sector. This is because the cheapest way to see Argentina is by long-distance coach. Coaches have been held up in some instances for days during the last three months. Making matters worse for the tourist industry is the fact that the farm workers strike has happened at a time when economists believe that inflation is running at least twice the official rate of 8%. This, coupled with food shortages, is making life very hard for hotel owners all over the county.\"The strike has no doubt affected our business, but it has occurred at a time of the year which is historically slow, so it's hard to gauge how much it has hurt,\" said John Johnston, owner of the Castillo Hotel in Salta. \"In the next month we may have a clearer picture. But what really is clearly curtailing commercial activity in general is inflation, exacerbated by the agricultural paralysis. \"One year ago a kilo of filet cost us 12 pesos ($4) - it's now up to 24 pesos ($8) and with the blockades it has been sometimes difficult to find in the last few months. International travellers probably don't perceive the problem unless they go to the same restaurant or hotel over a period of time. Of course, Argentina has a propensity towards inflation, and chaos, and the current government is promoting both.\"This feeling is echoed amongst other hotel owners around the country who might be sympathetic to the farmer's cause but are now blaming the farmers and an uncompromising government for their plight. While the stand off is now officially at an end after the government agreed to a reduction in export duty caps last week, many farmers have refused to call off protest action and hundreds of main roads remain blocked. Now Argentine truck drivers, many of whom have spent the last three months out of work due to the blockade, are also blocking roads. The truck drivers want guarantees that the farmers will reopen the grain trade for good. With no guarantees forthcoming the blockades are likely to continue.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Farmers' revolt hits tourist industry in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-06-17T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentines are very worried about their future. On Sunday farmers began their fourth strike in three months in reaction to the government's introduction in March of a new sliding scale of tax tariffs on grain and oilseed. The farmers are demanding that the president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, performs a U-turn on these laws.At least 300 motorways in the country were blocked by protesters, which saw dramatic clashes with police on Saturday and Sunday. Alfredo De Angeli, the prominent farming leader and a rising voice of dissent against the Argentine government, was briefly arrested at a roadblock in Entre Rios province (north of Buenos Aires).In response to these protests, and very symbolically for many Argentines, pro-government groups have called for a rally in Plaza de Mayo tomorrow, in front of the Casa Rosada. The roadblocks have caused things to deteriorate rapidly; there are shortages of basic goods such as flour, milk and meat, an incomprehensible situation for a country well known for its agricultural economy. Argentines were shocked to see up to 880,000 gallons of spoiled milk being drained from milk tankers and horrified by the sight of grain being burned alongside the motorways. The blockades are sparking fuel shortages, which has led to reduced bus services, and has sparked social unrest.The anger and frustration has led to hundreds of Argentines taking to the streets, many banging pots and pans to show their discontent with the government. For most citizens these scenes are vividly reminiscent of the economic collapse after the country defaulted on its national debt in 2001.According to a report to be published this week by the Argentine institutions and markets research centre at Eseade business school, Argentina's debt levels are now higher than they were when the economy crashed \u2013 at that time the largest crash of its kind in history. The paper's authors, Mart\u00edn Krause and Aldo Abram, believe that a worsening crisis of confidence in the government has brought the spectre of a new default closer. Despite radical restructuring just three years ago, public debt has reached $114.7bn or 56% of gross domestic product, compared with $144.2bn, or 54% of GDP, in 2001.Argentina is now being affected by a problem without precedent; a conflict between the state and the farmers, which is virtually crippling Argentina's traditional economic activities. Yet, there is a much more serious underlying problem; the general sense of national impotence with the state failing to find even short-term solutions to the problems at hand in order to help resolve the crisis \u2013 in the Argentine collective imagination there is the fear, perhaps well-founded, that the country is descending into anarchy.Unless the farmers or the government begin to discuss their differences, Argentina could face even more violence in the streets, and the real possibility of social disintegration and political collapse.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: Conflict between Argentine farmers and the government causing unrest"},{"date": "2008-06-19T15:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine conscript border guards were as charmless a bunch of fellows as you'd expect to find dispatched to a deserted road on top of a freezing cold mountain. I imagine they are still there, which makes me feel better.Shortly, we were plunging down again, every 100-metre drop bringing air more syrupy and rich; every degree of temperature raised bringing back the real prospect that one day I might be able to straighten my fingers again. I was breathing extra gulps just for the fun of it.We pulled over at a cafe for coffee. Having coffee in Argentina after being in Chile should be the first thing one does, like the Pope kissing the ground at the foot of the aircraft steps. For coffee in Chile means a sachet of Nescafe and tepid water producing a lumpy gloop of extraordinary vileness. Great dogs, rubbish coffee. In Argentina, it involves a loving process of alchemy with freshly crushed beans and warmed milk and an end product of such ambrosial ecstasy that you instinctively close your eyes as it slides down your throat and sigh loudly. As in San Pedro de Atacama, things felt like a Paramount set. Gauchos tethered their horses to the hitching post and walked past us, ponchos and all, raising a finger to the rim of their cowboy hats, Cuban heels click-clacking on the ancient wood floor as hard as granite. Chevy and Dodge pickups circa 1930 filled up at the single pump, its dials whirring round.We spent the next few days riding through north-west Argentina. First down intestinal tracts of roads \u2013 the kind of roads that fill bikers' winter dreams \u2013 that wound their way around bald, crumpled hills that changed colour at every bend \u2013 green, pink, yellow, even aquamarine \u2013 like your TV being on the blink. Then along arid valleys of sandstone, with fluted columns like giant organ pipes and eroded rocks forming fantastical sculptures. We rode along the Valley of the Butterflies, millions of them forming fluttering clouds that we passed through, like riding in a kaleidoscope. Down from the mountains, we hit the plains. Mile after mile of vineyards, then brilliant yellow tobacco crops, their leaves drying on the walls of the pueblos we passed through, each with a whitewashed church and a dusty football pitch, the twin obsessions of Argentina. In the middle of nowhere, we passed processions of devotees, walking who knows where, carrying aloft the Virgin Mary. And always the waving and the smiling. Surely, if there was a country to steal your heart, this was it.We rode along highways so straight and so long that a 20-degree bend constituted extreme sport; past the pigs and the horses and the donkeys and the chickens that seemed to wander around the Pampas at will, as if Argentina was one giant free-range farm.My last day with the group was spent in Alta Gracia. The day after they would be heading off to Buenos Aires, where they'd started their trip five weeks and 5,000 miles before. I was to give Kev's wife Julia back her beloved BMW and would fly home from C\u00f3rdoba.We rode to Che Guevara's old family home, now a museum. We saw the original South American motorcycle poster boy's Norton \"La Poderosa II\". Or maybe it was a replica - my Spanish is poor. La Poderosa's journey ended in a ditch in Chile, Che's in a ditch in Bolivia. In every photograph, from childhood on, there is a raging fire in his eyes. In every photograph bar one, of course. There's a terrible sadness in the house, like you're at the wake of a close friend.That night, as on every night in Argentina, we dined in a fine restaurant and ate an entire herd of cattle. If you ask them nicely, they'll often bring you a sprig of lettuce as garnish as well. The food was washed down, as ever, with wine that felt so sublime on the tongue it seemed a crime to swallow it. The group talked about the trip, about Peru and Bolivia, Chile and Argentina, recalled the roads and the spills and the near misses and the things they had seen which would stay with them forever. For this had been an adventure, not a holiday; exposed and vulnerable on a bike, a part of the landscape through which you travel, it brings a real feeling of achievement, of movement, of sensual pleasure, of survival. Because no matter how many times the clich\u00e9 is repeated, it holds true: driving a car is like watching a movie; riding a motorcycle like being in one. And when the bill came, as on every night, we all looked at it with wonder as pesos to pounds was calculated and, as I glanced round, I sensed, I think, a collective thought: this is living, really living.Globebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from 21 April to 25 May 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015. In conjunction with BMW Rider Training, Globebusters also offer residential rider training courses at their base in South Wales.", "tags": ["Road trips", "South America holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Chile holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Che Guevara", "World news"], "title": "Great journeys: across South America by bike, part three"},{"date": "2008-06-05T13:16:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Oil spill threatens Buenos Aires >> Source: BBCWorkers are battling to dissolve an oil spill heading towards the coast of Argentina after two ships collided off the coast of neighbouring Uruguay.Mexico City smog hurting people's sense of smell >> Source: ReutersChronic pollution in Mexico City, which stains the sky yellow and can trigger government warnings to stay indoors, could be killing off residents' sense of smell, scientists say.Slovenia shuts down nuclear plant after cooling system leak >> Source: AFPLjubljana: Slovenia today began shutting down its only nuclear power plant in Krsko following a leak in the cooling system. Authorities said it does not represent a danger for people or the environment.Sites named for new UK offshore wind farms >>Source: Times onlineLondon: Eleven zones around Britain's coastline have been named as the best places to build the next generation of offshore wind farms. See them here on a map.Electricity from the exhaust pipe >> Source: Environmental News NetworkFreiburg, Germany: Researchers are working on a thermoelectric generator that converts the heat from car exhaust fumes into electricity.Drought declared in California >> Source: CNNSacramento, California: Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has declared a statewide drought after two years of below-average rainfall, low snow-melt runoff and a court-ordered restriction on water transfers.Spotted a good story online? Share your links below", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Oil spill threatens Argentina"},{"date": "2008-04-02T17:01:16Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The late Guido di Tella, the intellectual and Anglophile Argentine foreign minister during the corrupt government of Carlos Menem in the 1990s, used to express the hope that Argentina, after its tragic experiences in the second half of the 20th century, would one day become a \"normal\" country. Casting around for examples of normality, his eye fell on New Zealand and Austria.Many Argentines coming from European immigrant stock used to subscribe to Di Tella's bizarre and unachievable desire. Such people had always believed their country to be a prosperous western outpost that had deviated from the European tradition of development and would eventually return to its original roots. Such a vision was conjured up by Argentine politicians and historians for more than a century; today it is coming under sustained attack.Argentina has been waking up to a different reality. It has dawned on progressive elements within the ruling elite that they are firmly and irrevocably situated not in Europe but in Latin America, a continent that they share with many different peoples with diverse traditions. Already, in neighbouring countries such as Bolivia, these peoples have begun to recover and celebrate their long-lost indigenous heritage, reviving the ancient conflict between Indians and white settlers. This new-found perception in Argentina of its geographical circumstances, in a society of long-established and self-satisfied conservatism, not to say racism, lies at the heart of a slow-burning cultural revolution that is gradually transforming the country. Under the auspices of Nestor and Cristina Kirchner, the husband-and-wife presidential team that have ruled since 2003 - Nestor since May that year, Cristina since last December - the image and reality of Argentina is beginning to change. Contested and controversial, and hated by the traditional ruling class, this impressive political couple have presided over the country's economic recovery after the spectacular banking collapse of 2001, establishing the best and most popular government in more than half a century. Among their achievements is the promotion of a national re-examination of what it means to be Argentine in the 21st century. In 2010, the country will celebrate the 200th anniversary of its independence from Spain, and President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has appealed for the construction, beyond party loyalties, of a \"bicentennial national agreement\" that will define the model of its future development. At stake are fresh readings of the country's history as well as of its ethnic composition, subjects that Argentines have traditionally been reluctant to contemplate.Argentina is a country that I once knew well, and many of the youthful figures that I knew in the 1960s and 70s are now running the country. I have never forgotten an extraordinary night some 35 years ago, in March 1973, when the Peronists won their first electoral victory since their charismatic leader Juan Per\u00f3n was overthrown by a military coup in 1955. The explosion of freedom after years of military rule, and the expectation of many young people that the country was about to change for the better, was palpable. On that autumn day in 1973, H\u00e9ctor C\u00e1mpora, Per\u00f3n's dentist, had won the presidential election, and I watched in the streets of Buenos Aires as the military police, sent out on motorcycles in anti-riot gear, were suddenly overwhelmed by the euphoria of the crowds. Forced to dismount from their machines, they were wildly embraced by demonstrators waving the light blue national flag. It was a revolutionary moment, one swiftly followed by others, including the release of all political prisoners, the re-establishment of relations with Cuba, and radical educational reforms. Among those caught up in the excitement of the time were two young law students at the University of La Plata, Nestor Kirchner and Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez.As with most of Latin America's radical experiments in the 20th century, the Peronist government ended in disaster. Guerrilla opposition grew as rightwing paramilitaries sought to silence the left, and in a grim atmosphere of increasing violence, a military putsch in 1976 by General Jorge Videla inaugurated six years of a \"dirty war\", waged principally against young people. No one under 30 was safe. A terrible civilian slaughter, with 30,000 dead or \"disappeared\", was to mark the country until today. Although the military gangsters were expelled after their invasion of the Falkland Islands in 1982, devised by General Leopoldo Galtieri, Argentina has taken two decades to recover. Before flying to Argentina on this present occasion I dug out an old Latin American contacts book from the early 1970s. As I looked at the names, I realised how many had been murdered in subsequent years. My notebook included Argentine journalists and politicians, Uruguayan senators, Bolivian army officers, Chilean academics and Brazilian peasant leaders - a typical cross-section of the people a journalist might expect to encounter or befriend. Some were \"disappeared\", others were shot or blown up. Several ended up on the grass verge on the road to the airport at Ezeiza, dumped there out of the Ford Falcons of the death squads. The Kirchners escaped from the dangers that touched so many of their generation. Married in 1976, they moved out of immediate danger in La Plata to the far south of Patagonia, to Nestor's home state of Santa Cruz. Here the military repression of young leftists was less intense. The Kirchners established a law firm in Rio Gallegos, and gingerly re-entered politics after the collapse of the generals' regime in the 80s. Nestor Kirchner became the governor of Santa Cruz, while Cristina was elected to the senate in Buenos Aires. From these provincial origins, they both established themselves on the national stage, re-embracing the Peronist cause and not forgetting the radicalism of their youth. They moved into the Casa Rosada, the presidential palace in Buenos Aires, in May 2003, and were given the teasing title of \"the Penguins\" in honour of their south Atlantic provenance. By rescheduling the country's massive debt of $84bn, and taking no further advice from the International Monetary Fund, Nestor Kirchner presided over a sustained period of economic expansion.Many of the ministers in the Kirchner governments are the heirs of those involved in the ferment of the 70s, and they have played their part in ensuring that the past is not forgotten. Nestor Kirchner persuaded the congress in 2003 to abolish the amnesty laws that had protected the military from prosecution, while Cristina was the inspiration behind the creation of a \"Museum of Memory\" in the building that once housed the Escuela Superior de la Mec\u00e1nica de la Armada (ESMA), the engineering school of the navy used as an interrogation and torture centre.The dirty war remains a central, unforgettable and contemporary element in Argentina's history. It is fresh in many minds, not least in the Kirchners', who have given solid support to the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, the formidable \"mothers\" who began organising in the first years of the Videla dictatorship to protest against the disappearance of their children. The Madres are now a powerful leftwing political organisation, and in the central square outside the congress, I found their prominently placed bookshop and coffee house. I have seen members of the Madres hawking their consciences around the continent in various countries in recent years, from Ecuador to Cuba, and I used to feel that they belonged to an era that was over. Surely it was time for Argentina to get on with a new life? Yet that is not at all the mood in Buenos Aires today. Constant reference is made in the media to the events of the 70s, with memorial notices and church services to recall the names of those who disappeared. As well ask the Jews to forget about the Holocaust, or the Spaniards to forget the civil war. The macabre story of the children born to prisoners here (and at a similar centre in La Plata) and then handed over for adoption to families of military officers has been told in a film by Estela Bravo, The Found Children of Argentina, recently shown on British television. The Abuelas de la Plaza de Mayo, a sister organisation of the Madres, was set up to mobilise the \"grandmothers\" to inquire into the fate of their grandchildren, more than 500 of whom were missing. DNA testing at the national genetic databank has eventually enabled 100 of them, now adults, to discover who they really are, and to rejoin what is left of their real families. They are never out of the news. One is a member of congress; others have embarked on high-profile prosecutions of their adoptive parents.To discuss the fate of the prisoners at the ESMA torture centre, I called on Horacio Verbitsky, an old friend from my 70s notebook, locating him in a tiny book-lined study in a building close to the law courts. Verbitsky is a writer and investigative journalist who wrote a notable book, The Flight, describing the military practice of throwing their tortured victims, drugged and bound, from aeroplanes into the waters of the river Plate. These were the parents of the children subsequently adopted. Known as \"El Perro\" for his terrier-like capacity to pursue his investigations, Verbitsky is now the president of the Centre for Legal and Social Studies, a human rights organisation that seeks to address the abuses of the military government. He does not take such an extreme leftist line as the Madres, but is a passionate advocate of the Kirchner government, and a powerful critic of the country's prosperous middle class and its \"social hatred\" of the provincial upstarts from Patagonia. He praises the way in which the Kirchners have cleaned up the country's legal system, making impeccable appointments to the supreme court and bringing in women judges to challenge the traditional male supremacy. Verbitsky is also a significant revisionist historian, arousing fresh controversy recently with a documented account of the misdemeanours of the Catholic church, long one of the pillars of the Argentine state. While some priests were imprisoned and killed, several senior bishops gave open support to the military. Refusing to concern themselves with the fate of the disappeared, they lunched regularly with army commanders. Verbitsky's revelations have made it difficult for the church to re-establish itself as an ethical reference point in Argentine society.Another friend on the list of survivors in my notebook is Jos\u00e9 Nun, a sociologist I knew when he lived in exile in Chile. Today, aged 70, he is the minister of culture, a strategic position in a government seeking a redefinition of its historical traditions. I went to see him in the ornate old palace that his ministry occupies in Buenos Aires, and found him as enthusiastic as I remembered him, bubbling over with schemes and projects. Spurred on by the imminent bicentenary celebrations, he is financing a research programme that delves into the social history of the past two centuries. We need, he says, to explain \"how and why we are what we are\". Only then can the people of Argentina decide how their country's direction might be changed or maintained. The first fruits of this initiative are an immense two-volume collection of essays. Our central objective, says Nun, is \"to re-examine and debate our successes and failures\". One crucial fact discussed in these volumes was the arrival of 7 million immigrants from Europe in the half-century between 1870 and 1915. At the same time, although this is not a topic on which Argentines care to dwell, the local Indian population was slaughtered in successive military campaigns to make room for the settlers. Two under-visited museums in Buenos Aires tell part of the story.In the old dock area, past the forgotten, once British-owned railway stations and across a crowded motorway, stands the National Immigration Museum, an immense, empty and almost inaccessible building. This is Argentina's Ellis Island, a \"Gran Hotel\" completed in 1911 that processed tens of thousands of impecunious European immigrants. More reminiscent of a concentration camp than an induction centre, its vast spaces accommodated an eating hall on the ground floor, and sleeping and washing facilities for men and women on the floors above. An exhibition of photographs shows the arrival of peasants from Friuli and Dalmatia, then in the Austro-Hungarian empire. They were destined for settlement in the northern frontier provinces from which the Indians were being removed.Another rarely visited museum stands a block from the Plaza de Mayo. The Juan Ambrosetti Ethnographic Museum, part of the university of Buenos Aires, contains photographs and artefacts concerning these same Indians from the north, while an exhibition about Tierra del Fuego in the south examines how Indian society was destroyed by European missionaries in the 19th century, a story reminiscent of the extermination of the Aborigines of Tasmania. These museums represent two facets of Argentina's cultural heritage that are rarely considered together, except in the work of another revisionist. Osvaldo Bayer, after whom the coffee shop of the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo was named, was notorious in the 70s as the author of La Patagonia Rebelde, an account of an army massacre of rural workers in Patagonia in 1922. Exiled in the 70s and now over 80, Bayer has turned his attention from the struggles of workers to the decimation of the country's original peoples in the 19th century. He is one of the few historians to link the dirty war of the 1970s with the dirty war against the Indians of the 1880s. The chief author of the 19th-century massacres was General Julio Roca, honoured until recently as one of the country's most eminent figures. Twice president between 1880 and 1904, Roca is now remembered for his \"Campaign in the Desert\" in 1879, in the south-central zone of the country. Thousands of Indians were killed, and the great central area of the pampas was prepared for European immigration. Further campaigns took place on the northern frontier with Paraguay, and here too the land was cleared for immigrants. Some now consider Roca the \"Hitler\" of Argentina's \"final solution\", and Bayer has edited a book, The History of Argentine Cruelty, that paints a dark picture of the time. Roca's huge statue in Buenos Aires is regularly decorated with the slogan \"Genocidio\". A more controversial subject is the ethnic makeup of the population, for so long considered largely white and European. The DNA centre that has reunited the children of the \"disappeared\" with their families has produced some interesting findings. Recent research into Argentines' DNA suggests that 56% have at least partly indigenous blood. \"We are not as European as we think we are,\" says Daniel Corach, director of the Service of Genetic Digital Tracing of the University of Buenos Aires. A 12-year research project, from 1992 to 2004, examined the DNA of 12,000 people in 11 provinces. As well as noting that only 44% of the population were of European origin, it concluded that 10% were pure Indians. Since the current population of Argentina is approximately 36 million, this suggests that 20 million people are of indigenous origin (of which 3.6 million are pure Indians), while only 16 million can trace their ancestry back to Europe.This is far from the understanding that most urban Argentines have of the ethnic makeup of their country. They continue to believe that they live in a largely white country with a tiny handful of Indians sprinkled about in the furthest provinces. Yet step into the ancient and inadequate metro system of Buenos Aires and you are at once aware of a population totally unlike the children of Italians and Spaniards who travel above ground. Below, a large proportion of the travellers still have Indian faces and complexions. Join the almost daily demonstrations of the piqueteros, the unemployed organisation that enjoys as much support from the Kirchners as do the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, and you receive the same impression. Argentina is more of an Indian country than the history books have led its people to suppose. Recognition of this fact is one of the conclusions that will emerge from Cristina Kirchner's bicentennial desire to re-examine the historical record. It will not bring about the \"normality\" that Guido di Tella envisaged, but accepting this reality in the 21st century will hasten the country's integration into a continent already rejecting its white settler traditions.\u00b7 The following clarification was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday April 5 2008. We said in a subheading that the president of Argentina, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, was due to visit the UK. In fact she had already cancelled the trip because of a farmers' protest.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Architects of the new Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-17T12:46:21Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "On March 11 Argentina's President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced a series of taxes on farm exports such as soya and wheat. Aimed at curbing inflation and improving Argentina's ever worsening fiscal balance, it was the second major agricultural tax hike in just four months. The announcement proved to be the final straw for thousands of Argentine farmers who, incensed by the new taxes, blocked every major highway in the country. The blockades have continued now for over three months during which time supermarket shelves have slowly emptied and prices for foodstuffs have rocketed. One of the sectors most hard hit by the farmer's revolt has been tourism. According to recent figures released by the Argentine Business Federation of Hotels and Restaurants the first three weeks of the blockades alone caused loses in the Argentine tourist industry of 73 million pesos (around $24 million). At the same time thousands of jobs in the tourist industry are now at risk and many hotels and restaurants in Argentina face the possibility of imminent closure unless the blockades are lifted.Last weekend was a bank holiday in Argentina but, with over 300 roads blocked, an estimated 60% of coaches were marooned on highways and bus stations all over the country. Many coach companies simply stopped issuing tickets altogether. Long distance coach companies also reported a 40% drop in ticket sales in comparison with other weekends. In response hundreds of tourist industry workers descended on Highway 14 in the province of Entre Rios to vent their frustration at the farmers for the damage they have caused to the tourist industry and the thousands of jobs they are now putting at risk. Since the devaluation of the peso Argentina has become an increasingly popular tourist destination and the number of tourists has continued to go up year on year by around 10% since 2003. As yet there are no official figures revealing the impact that the crisis has had on the number of foreign visitors entering Argentina but it is likely that the crisis will be most felt in the budget travel sector. This is because the cheapest way to see Argentina is by long-distance coach. Coaches have been held up in some instances for days during the last three months. Making matters worse for the tourist industry is the fact that the farm workers strike has happened at a time when economists believe that inflation is running at least twice the official rate of 8%. This, coupled with food shortages, is making life very hard for hotel owners all over the county.\"The strike has no doubt affected our business, but it has occurred at a time of the year which is historically slow, so it's hard to gauge how much it has hurt,\" said John Johnston, owner of the Castillo Hotel in Salta. \"In the next month we may have a clearer picture. But what really is clearly curtailing commercial activity in general is inflation, exacerbated by the agricultural paralysis. \"One year ago a kilo of filet cost us 12 pesos ($4) - it's now up to 24 pesos ($8) and with the blockades it has been sometimes difficult to find in the last few months. International travellers probably don't perceive the problem unless they go to the same restaurant or hotel over a period of time. Of course, Argentina has a propensity towards inflation, and chaos, and the current government is promoting both.\"This feeling is echoed amongst other hotel owners around the country who might be sympathetic to the farmer's cause but are now blaming the farmers and an uncompromising government for their plight. While the stand off is now officially at an end after the government agreed to a reduction in export duty caps last week, many farmers have refused to call off protest action and hundreds of main roads remain blocked. Now Argentine truck drivers, many of whom have spent the last three months out of work due to the blockade, are also blocking roads. The truck drivers want guarantees that the farmers will reopen the grain trade for good. With no guarantees forthcoming the blockades are likely to continue.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Farmers' revolt hits tourist industry in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina's first female President, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, is fighting to restore her tattered reputation after a 70-day rural strike saw her public image plummet to its lowest level.Only one in four Argentinians has a positive image of her, according to figures released last week by a leading polling group. Three months ago, her approval rating was more than 50 per cent. Elected last October with 45 per cent of the popular vote, Fern\u00e1ndez's popularity has sunk in recent months as a lock-out by farmers threatened food shortages and frozen farm exports.Argentina's powerful farm lobby initially went on strike in mid-March after the introduction of controversial new taxes on soya, wheat and other key agricultural products. Fern\u00e1ndez won a brief reprieve after the main farming associations agreed to re-enter negotiations but angry farmers are still planning to go ahead with a huge demonstration today in the port town of Rosario.Fern\u00e1ndez will be heading a rally of her own today to mark Argentina's National Day. Behind the customary flag-waving and confetti, she must be asking herself where it all went wrong. The economy, the usual weather vane of public content, is growing at more than 6 per cent a year thanks to rocketing commodity prices. But there are some worrying economic and political trends, including inflation. Government figures put price rises at 9 per cent a year, but private sector analysts say the government is massaging the numbers. Independent data suggests inflation could be three times higher.Fern\u00e1ndez's attempts to remedy the situation rest on fixing prices and reducing exports - much the same as her husband, ex-President N\u00e9stor Kirchner, while in power. Then, as now, prices show no sign of slowing.'Even if it has the political will to solve the inflation problem, it will still take a year or two,' argues Alejandro Catterberg, director at polling firm Poliarqu\u00eda. Price rises are feeding into fresh concerns over increasing inequality and poverty. Fern\u00e1ndez prefers to cite government figures that suggest a drop in the number of poor - albeit small - to eight million (20.6 per cent of the population). Figures from the church and other private groups, however, say a jump to 12 million is more realistic. The President's handling of the farmers' strike has also raised questions about her capacity to govern. From the outset of conflict, she shunned opportunities to sit down with the rural protesters. Instead, she branded the farmers as rural 'oligarchs' and accused them of unpatriotically not sharing their profits.Her control within the ranks of power has also begun to look fragile. Three weeks ago, her economy minister Mart\u00edn Lousteau resigned over the unpopular new tax scheme. Meanwhile, several supposedly pro-Kirchner provincial governors broke ranks by talking individually with the farming lobby.More grating for many Argentinians is the personal style of their 55-year-old head of state. Public opinion surveys increasingly portray her as arrogant, intolerant of opposing voices and conflictive. However, with a strong majority in Congress and a flailing political opposition, Fern\u00e1ndez has enough political clout to avoid such confrontations, argues Ricardo Rouvier, a political analyst. 'Instead she continues to pursue a policy that quickly establishes groups as either friends or enemies.'Her choice of government spokespeople merely exacerbates the combative nature of her administration. In Luis D'El\u00eda and Guillermo Moreno, she has opted for two thuggish stalwarts of the pro-workers Peronist party. Harder to shrug off is her husband, N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who was president until December last year and is now head of the Peronist party. Credited with rescuing Argentina from its worst ever financial crash in 2001-2002, Kirchner continues to enjoy a positive image rating of around 50 per cent.A poll released last week suggests three in every 10 Argentinians believe it is the ex-president who is really calling the shots in the Presidential Palace - up from only one in 10 before the rural crisis.The changing fortunes of the economy also place the President in a very different political environment to her husband, who took over a country deep in debt, whereas Fern\u00e1ndez is sitting on federal reserves of more than $50bn.As inflation creeps up, Argentinian consumers are feeling a 'mismatch' between the booming economy and their decreasing personal spending power, according to Graciela Romer, a Buenos Aires-based political analyst.She said Argentinians were also looking for, in their first elected female head of state, a more sensitive, tolerant and conciliatory style of presidency. 'These are not the characteristics that Cristina is showing,' she said.\u00b7 The following clarification was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday June 1 2008. We described Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner as 'Argentina's first female President'; she was the first who was democratically elected. Argentina's first female President was General Per\u00f3n's third wife, Maria Estela Martinez Cartas de Per\u00f3n, better known as Isabel Per\u00f3n, who took over after her husband's death in 1974.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina turns against new president as strike worsens"},{"date": "2008-06-17T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentines are very worried about their future. On Sunday farmers began their fourth strike in three months in reaction to the government's introduction in March of a new sliding scale of tax tariffs on grain and oilseed. The farmers are demanding that the president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, performs a U-turn on these laws.At least 300 motorways in the country were blocked by protesters, which saw dramatic clashes with police on Saturday and Sunday. Alfredo De Angeli, the prominent farming leader and a rising voice of dissent against the Argentine government, was briefly arrested at a roadblock in Entre Rios province (north of Buenos Aires).In response to these protests, and very symbolically for many Argentines, pro-government groups have called for a rally in Plaza de Mayo tomorrow, in front of the Casa Rosada. The roadblocks have caused things to deteriorate rapidly; there are shortages of basic goods such as flour, milk and meat, an incomprehensible situation for a country well known for its agricultural economy. Argentines were shocked to see up to 880,000 gallons of spoiled milk being drained from milk tankers and horrified by the sight of grain being burned alongside the motorways. The blockades are sparking fuel shortages, which has led to reduced bus services, and has sparked social unrest.The anger and frustration has led to hundreds of Argentines taking to the streets, many banging pots and pans to show their discontent with the government. For most citizens these scenes are vividly reminiscent of the economic collapse after the country defaulted on its national debt in 2001.According to a report to be published this week by the Argentine institutions and markets research centre at Eseade business school, Argentina's debt levels are now higher than they were when the economy crashed \u2013 at that time the largest crash of its kind in history. The paper's authors, Mart\u00edn Krause and Aldo Abram, believe that a worsening crisis of confidence in the government has brought the spectre of a new default closer. Despite radical restructuring just three years ago, public debt has reached $114.7bn or 56% of gross domestic product, compared with $144.2bn, or 54% of GDP, in 2001.Argentina is now being affected by a problem without precedent; a conflict between the state and the farmers, which is virtually crippling Argentina's traditional economic activities. Yet, there is a much more serious underlying problem; the general sense of national impotence with the state failing to find even short-term solutions to the problems at hand in order to help resolve the crisis \u2013 in the Argentine collective imagination there is the fear, perhaps well-founded, that the country is descending into anarchy.Unless the farmers or the government begin to discuss their differences, Argentina could face even more violence in the streets, and the real possibility of social disintegration and political collapse.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: Conflict between Argentine farmers and the government causing unrest"},{"date": "2008-06-19T15:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine conscript border guards were as charmless a bunch of fellows as you'd expect to find dispatched to a deserted road on top of a freezing cold mountain. I imagine they are still there, which makes me feel better.Shortly, we were plunging down again, every 100-metre drop bringing air more syrupy and rich; every degree of temperature raised bringing back the real prospect that one day I might be able to straighten my fingers again. I was breathing extra gulps just for the fun of it.We pulled over at a cafe for coffee. Having coffee in Argentina after being in Chile should be the first thing one does, like the Pope kissing the ground at the foot of the aircraft steps. For coffee in Chile means a sachet of Nescafe and tepid water producing a lumpy gloop of extraordinary vileness. Great dogs, rubbish coffee. In Argentina, it involves a loving process of alchemy with freshly crushed beans and warmed milk and an end product of such ambrosial ecstasy that you instinctively close your eyes as it slides down your throat and sigh loudly. As in San Pedro de Atacama, things felt like a Paramount set. Gauchos tethered their horses to the hitching post and walked past us, ponchos and all, raising a finger to the rim of their cowboy hats, Cuban heels click-clacking on the ancient wood floor as hard as granite. Chevy and Dodge pickups circa 1930 filled up at the single pump, its dials whirring round.We spent the next few days riding through north-west Argentina. First down intestinal tracts of roads \u2013 the kind of roads that fill bikers' winter dreams \u2013 that wound their way around bald, crumpled hills that changed colour at every bend \u2013 green, pink, yellow, even aquamarine \u2013 like your TV being on the blink. Then along arid valleys of sandstone, with fluted columns like giant organ pipes and eroded rocks forming fantastical sculptures. We rode along the Valley of the Butterflies, millions of them forming fluttering clouds that we passed through, like riding in a kaleidoscope. Down from the mountains, we hit the plains. Mile after mile of vineyards, then brilliant yellow tobacco crops, their leaves drying on the walls of the pueblos we passed through, each with a whitewashed church and a dusty football pitch, the twin obsessions of Argentina. In the middle of nowhere, we passed processions of devotees, walking who knows where, carrying aloft the Virgin Mary. And always the waving and the smiling. Surely, if there was a country to steal your heart, this was it.We rode along highways so straight and so long that a 20-degree bend constituted extreme sport; past the pigs and the horses and the donkeys and the chickens that seemed to wander around the Pampas at will, as if Argentina was one giant free-range farm.My last day with the group was spent in Alta Gracia. The day after they would be heading off to Buenos Aires, where they'd started their trip five weeks and 5,000 miles before. I was to give Kev's wife Julia back her beloved BMW and would fly home from C\u00f3rdoba.We rode to Che Guevara's old family home, now a museum. We saw the original South American motorcycle poster boy's Norton \"La Poderosa II\". Or maybe it was a replica - my Spanish is poor. La Poderosa's journey ended in a ditch in Chile, Che's in a ditch in Bolivia. In every photograph, from childhood on, there is a raging fire in his eyes. In every photograph bar one, of course. There's a terrible sadness in the house, like you're at the wake of a close friend.That night, as on every night in Argentina, we dined in a fine restaurant and ate an entire herd of cattle. If you ask them nicely, they'll often bring you a sprig of lettuce as garnish as well. The food was washed down, as ever, with wine that felt so sublime on the tongue it seemed a crime to swallow it. The group talked about the trip, about Peru and Bolivia, Chile and Argentina, recalled the roads and the spills and the near misses and the things they had seen which would stay with them forever. For this had been an adventure, not a holiday; exposed and vulnerable on a bike, a part of the landscape through which you travel, it brings a real feeling of achievement, of movement, of sensual pleasure, of survival. Because no matter how many times the clich\u00e9 is repeated, it holds true: driving a car is like watching a movie; riding a motorcycle like being in one. And when the bill came, as on every night, we all looked at it with wonder as pesos to pounds was calculated and, as I glanced round, I sensed, I think, a collective thought: this is living, really living.Globebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from 21 April to 25 May 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015. In conjunction with BMW Rider Training, Globebusters also offer residential rider training courses at their base in South Wales.", "tags": ["Road trips", "South America holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Chile holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Che Guevara", "World news"], "title": "Great journeys: across South America by bike, part three"},{"date": "2008-06-05T13:16:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Oil spill threatens Buenos Aires >> Source: BBCWorkers are battling to dissolve an oil spill heading towards the coast of Argentina after two ships collided off the coast of neighbouring Uruguay.Mexico City smog hurting people's sense of smell >> Source: ReutersChronic pollution in Mexico City, which stains the sky yellow and can trigger government warnings to stay indoors, could be killing off residents' sense of smell, scientists say.Slovenia shuts down nuclear plant after cooling system leak >> Source: AFPLjubljana: Slovenia today began shutting down its only nuclear power plant in Krsko following a leak in the cooling system. Authorities said it does not represent a danger for people or the environment.Sites named for new UK offshore wind farms >>Source: Times onlineLondon: Eleven zones around Britain's coastline have been named as the best places to build the next generation of offshore wind farms. See them here on a map.Electricity from the exhaust pipe >> Source: Environmental News NetworkFreiburg, Germany: Researchers are working on a thermoelectric generator that converts the heat from car exhaust fumes into electricity.Drought declared in California >> Source: CNNSacramento, California: Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger has declared a statewide drought after two years of below-average rainfall, low snow-melt runoff and a court-ordered restriction on water transfers.Spotted a good story online? Share your links below", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Oil spill threatens Argentina"},{"date": "2008-04-02T17:01:16Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The late Guido di Tella, the intellectual and Anglophile Argentine foreign minister during the corrupt government of Carlos Menem in the 1990s, used to express the hope that Argentina, after its tragic experiences in the second half of the 20th century, would one day become a \"normal\" country. Casting around for examples of normality, his eye fell on New Zealand and Austria.Many Argentines coming from European immigrant stock used to subscribe to Di Tella's bizarre and unachievable desire. Such people had always believed their country to be a prosperous western outpost that had deviated from the European tradition of development and would eventually return to its original roots. Such a vision was conjured up by Argentine politicians and historians for more than a century; today it is coming under sustained attack.Argentina has been waking up to a different reality. It has dawned on progressive elements within the ruling elite that they are firmly and irrevocably situated not in Europe but in Latin America, a continent that they share with many different peoples with diverse traditions. Already, in neighbouring countries such as Bolivia, these peoples have begun to recover and celebrate their long-lost indigenous heritage, reviving the ancient conflict between Indians and white settlers. This new-found perception in Argentina of its geographical circumstances, in a society of long-established and self-satisfied conservatism, not to say racism, lies at the heart of a slow-burning cultural revolution that is gradually transforming the country. Under the auspices of Nestor and Cristina Kirchner, the husband-and-wife presidential team that have ruled since 2003 - Nestor since May that year, Cristina since last December - the image and reality of Argentina is beginning to change. Contested and controversial, and hated by the traditional ruling class, this impressive political couple have presided over the country's economic recovery after the spectacular banking collapse of 2001, establishing the best and most popular government in more than half a century. Among their achievements is the promotion of a national re-examination of what it means to be Argentine in the 21st century. In 2010, the country will celebrate the 200th anniversary of its independence from Spain, and President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has appealed for the construction, beyond party loyalties, of a \"bicentennial national agreement\" that will define the model of its future development. At stake are fresh readings of the country's history as well as of its ethnic composition, subjects that Argentines have traditionally been reluctant to contemplate.Argentina is a country that I once knew well, and many of the youthful figures that I knew in the 1960s and 70s are now running the country. I have never forgotten an extraordinary night some 35 years ago, in March 1973, when the Peronists won their first electoral victory since their charismatic leader Juan Per\u00f3n was overthrown by a military coup in 1955. The explosion of freedom after years of military rule, and the expectation of many young people that the country was about to change for the better, was palpable. On that autumn day in 1973, H\u00e9ctor C\u00e1mpora, Per\u00f3n's dentist, had won the presidential election, and I watched in the streets of Buenos Aires as the military police, sent out on motorcycles in anti-riot gear, were suddenly overwhelmed by the euphoria of the crowds. Forced to dismount from their machines, they were wildly embraced by demonstrators waving the light blue national flag. It was a revolutionary moment, one swiftly followed by others, including the release of all political prisoners, the re-establishment of relations with Cuba, and radical educational reforms. Among those caught up in the excitement of the time were two young law students at the University of La Plata, Nestor Kirchner and Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez.As with most of Latin America's radical experiments in the 20th century, the Peronist government ended in disaster. Guerrilla opposition grew as rightwing paramilitaries sought to silence the left, and in a grim atmosphere of increasing violence, a military putsch in 1976 by General Jorge Videla inaugurated six years of a \"dirty war\", waged principally against young people. No one under 30 was safe. A terrible civilian slaughter, with 30,000 dead or \"disappeared\", was to mark the country until today. Although the military gangsters were expelled after their invasion of the Falkland Islands in 1982, devised by General Leopoldo Galtieri, Argentina has taken two decades to recover. Before flying to Argentina on this present occasion I dug out an old Latin American contacts book from the early 1970s. As I looked at the names, I realised how many had been murdered in subsequent years. My notebook included Argentine journalists and politicians, Uruguayan senators, Bolivian army officers, Chilean academics and Brazilian peasant leaders - a typical cross-section of the people a journalist might expect to encounter or befriend. Some were \"disappeared\", others were shot or blown up. Several ended up on the grass verge on the road to the airport at Ezeiza, dumped there out of the Ford Falcons of the death squads. The Kirchners escaped from the dangers that touched so many of their generation. Married in 1976, they moved out of immediate danger in La Plata to the far south of Patagonia, to Nestor's home state of Santa Cruz. Here the military repression of young leftists was less intense. The Kirchners established a law firm in Rio Gallegos, and gingerly re-entered politics after the collapse of the generals' regime in the 80s. Nestor Kirchner became the governor of Santa Cruz, while Cristina was elected to the senate in Buenos Aires. From these provincial origins, they both established themselves on the national stage, re-embracing the Peronist cause and not forgetting the radicalism of their youth. They moved into the Casa Rosada, the presidential palace in Buenos Aires, in May 2003, and were given the teasing title of \"the Penguins\" in honour of their south Atlantic provenance. By rescheduling the country's massive debt of $84bn, and taking no further advice from the International Monetary Fund, Nestor Kirchner presided over a sustained period of economic expansion.Many of the ministers in the Kirchner governments are the heirs of those involved in the ferment of the 70s, and they have played their part in ensuring that the past is not forgotten. Nestor Kirchner persuaded the congress in 2003 to abolish the amnesty laws that had protected the military from prosecution, while Cristina was the inspiration behind the creation of a \"Museum of Memory\" in the building that once housed the Escuela Superior de la Mec\u00e1nica de la Armada (ESMA), the engineering school of the navy used as an interrogation and torture centre.The dirty war remains a central, unforgettable and contemporary element in Argentina's history. It is fresh in many minds, not least in the Kirchners', who have given solid support to the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, the formidable \"mothers\" who began organising in the first years of the Videla dictatorship to protest against the disappearance of their children. The Madres are now a powerful leftwing political organisation, and in the central square outside the congress, I found their prominently placed bookshop and coffee house. I have seen members of the Madres hawking their consciences around the continent in various countries in recent years, from Ecuador to Cuba, and I used to feel that they belonged to an era that was over. Surely it was time for Argentina to get on with a new life? Yet that is not at all the mood in Buenos Aires today. Constant reference is made in the media to the events of the 70s, with memorial notices and church services to recall the names of those who disappeared. As well ask the Jews to forget about the Holocaust, or the Spaniards to forget the civil war. The macabre story of the children born to prisoners here (and at a similar centre in La Plata) and then handed over for adoption to families of military officers has been told in a film by Estela Bravo, The Found Children of Argentina, recently shown on British television. The Abuelas de la Plaza de Mayo, a sister organisation of the Madres, was set up to mobilise the \"grandmothers\" to inquire into the fate of their grandchildren, more than 500 of whom were missing. DNA testing at the national genetic databank has eventually enabled 100 of them, now adults, to discover who they really are, and to rejoin what is left of their real families. They are never out of the news. One is a member of congress; others have embarked on high-profile prosecutions of their adoptive parents.To discuss the fate of the prisoners at the ESMA torture centre, I called on Horacio Verbitsky, an old friend from my 70s notebook, locating him in a tiny book-lined study in a building close to the law courts. Verbitsky is a writer and investigative journalist who wrote a notable book, The Flight, describing the military practice of throwing their tortured victims, drugged and bound, from aeroplanes into the waters of the river Plate. These were the parents of the children subsequently adopted. Known as \"El Perro\" for his terrier-like capacity to pursue his investigations, Verbitsky is now the president of the Centre for Legal and Social Studies, a human rights organisation that seeks to address the abuses of the military government. He does not take such an extreme leftist line as the Madres, but is a passionate advocate of the Kirchner government, and a powerful critic of the country's prosperous middle class and its \"social hatred\" of the provincial upstarts from Patagonia. He praises the way in which the Kirchners have cleaned up the country's legal system, making impeccable appointments to the supreme court and bringing in women judges to challenge the traditional male supremacy. Verbitsky is also a significant revisionist historian, arousing fresh controversy recently with a documented account of the misdemeanours of the Catholic church, long one of the pillars of the Argentine state. While some priests were imprisoned and killed, several senior bishops gave open support to the military. Refusing to concern themselves with the fate of the disappeared, they lunched regularly with army commanders. Verbitsky's revelations have made it difficult for the church to re-establish itself as an ethical reference point in Argentine society.Another friend on the list of survivors in my notebook is Jos\u00e9 Nun, a sociologist I knew when he lived in exile in Chile. Today, aged 70, he is the minister of culture, a strategic position in a government seeking a redefinition of its historical traditions. I went to see him in the ornate old palace that his ministry occupies in Buenos Aires, and found him as enthusiastic as I remembered him, bubbling over with schemes and projects. Spurred on by the imminent bicentenary celebrations, he is financing a research programme that delves into the social history of the past two centuries. We need, he says, to explain \"how and why we are what we are\". Only then can the people of Argentina decide how their country's direction might be changed or maintained. The first fruits of this initiative are an immense two-volume collection of essays. Our central objective, says Nun, is \"to re-examine and debate our successes and failures\". One crucial fact discussed in these volumes was the arrival of 7 million immigrants from Europe in the half-century between 1870 and 1915. At the same time, although this is not a topic on which Argentines care to dwell, the local Indian population was slaughtered in successive military campaigns to make room for the settlers. Two under-visited museums in Buenos Aires tell part of the story.In the old dock area, past the forgotten, once British-owned railway stations and across a crowded motorway, stands the National Immigration Museum, an immense, empty and almost inaccessible building. This is Argentina's Ellis Island, a \"Gran Hotel\" completed in 1911 that processed tens of thousands of impecunious European immigrants. More reminiscent of a concentration camp than an induction centre, its vast spaces accommodated an eating hall on the ground floor, and sleeping and washing facilities for men and women on the floors above. An exhibition of photographs shows the arrival of peasants from Friuli and Dalmatia, then in the Austro-Hungarian empire. They were destined for settlement in the northern frontier provinces from which the Indians were being removed.Another rarely visited museum stands a block from the Plaza de Mayo. The Juan Ambrosetti Ethnographic Museum, part of the university of Buenos Aires, contains photographs and artefacts concerning these same Indians from the north, while an exhibition about Tierra del Fuego in the south examines how Indian society was destroyed by European missionaries in the 19th century, a story reminiscent of the extermination of the Aborigines of Tasmania. These museums represent two facets of Argentina's cultural heritage that are rarely considered together, except in the work of another revisionist. Osvaldo Bayer, after whom the coffee shop of the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo was named, was notorious in the 70s as the author of La Patagonia Rebelde, an account of an army massacre of rural workers in Patagonia in 1922. Exiled in the 70s and now over 80, Bayer has turned his attention from the struggles of workers to the decimation of the country's original peoples in the 19th century. He is one of the few historians to link the dirty war of the 1970s with the dirty war against the Indians of the 1880s. The chief author of the 19th-century massacres was General Julio Roca, honoured until recently as one of the country's most eminent figures. Twice president between 1880 and 1904, Roca is now remembered for his \"Campaign in the Desert\" in 1879, in the south-central zone of the country. Thousands of Indians were killed, and the great central area of the pampas was prepared for European immigration. Further campaigns took place on the northern frontier with Paraguay, and here too the land was cleared for immigrants. Some now consider Roca the \"Hitler\" of Argentina's \"final solution\", and Bayer has edited a book, The History of Argentine Cruelty, that paints a dark picture of the time. Roca's huge statue in Buenos Aires is regularly decorated with the slogan \"Genocidio\". A more controversial subject is the ethnic makeup of the population, for so long considered largely white and European. The DNA centre that has reunited the children of the \"disappeared\" with their families has produced some interesting findings. Recent research into Argentines' DNA suggests that 56% have at least partly indigenous blood. \"We are not as European as we think we are,\" says Daniel Corach, director of the Service of Genetic Digital Tracing of the University of Buenos Aires. A 12-year research project, from 1992 to 2004, examined the DNA of 12,000 people in 11 provinces. As well as noting that only 44% of the population were of European origin, it concluded that 10% were pure Indians. Since the current population of Argentina is approximately 36 million, this suggests that 20 million people are of indigenous origin (of which 3.6 million are pure Indians), while only 16 million can trace their ancestry back to Europe.This is far from the understanding that most urban Argentines have of the ethnic makeup of their country. They continue to believe that they live in a largely white country with a tiny handful of Indians sprinkled about in the furthest provinces. Yet step into the ancient and inadequate metro system of Buenos Aires and you are at once aware of a population totally unlike the children of Italians and Spaniards who travel above ground. Below, a large proportion of the travellers still have Indian faces and complexions. Join the almost daily demonstrations of the piqueteros, the unemployed organisation that enjoys as much support from the Kirchners as do the Madres de la Plaza de Mayo, and you receive the same impression. Argentina is more of an Indian country than the history books have led its people to suppose. Recognition of this fact is one of the conclusions that will emerge from Cristina Kirchner's bicentennial desire to re-examine the historical record. It will not bring about the \"normality\" that Guido di Tella envisaged, but accepting this reality in the 21st century will hasten the country's integration into a continent already rejecting its white settler traditions.\u00b7 The following clarification was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Saturday April 5 2008. We said in a subheading that the president of Argentina, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, was due to visit the UK. In fact she had already cancelled the trip because of a farmers' protest.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Architects of the new Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-17T12:46:21Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "On March 11 Argentina's President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced a series of taxes on farm exports such as soya and wheat. Aimed at curbing inflation and improving Argentina's ever worsening fiscal balance, it was the second major agricultural tax hike in just four months. The announcement proved to be the final straw for thousands of Argentine farmers who, incensed by the new taxes, blocked every major highway in the country. The blockades have continued now for over three months during which time supermarket shelves have slowly emptied and prices for foodstuffs have rocketed. One of the sectors most hard hit by the farmer's revolt has been tourism. According to recent figures released by the Argentine Business Federation of Hotels and Restaurants the first three weeks of the blockades alone caused loses in the Argentine tourist industry of 73 million pesos (around $24 million). At the same time thousands of jobs in the tourist industry are now at risk and many hotels and restaurants in Argentina face the possibility of imminent closure unless the blockades are lifted.Last weekend was a bank holiday in Argentina but, with over 300 roads blocked, an estimated 60% of coaches were marooned on highways and bus stations all over the country. Many coach companies simply stopped issuing tickets altogether. Long distance coach companies also reported a 40% drop in ticket sales in comparison with other weekends. In response hundreds of tourist industry workers descended on Highway 14 in the province of Entre Rios to vent their frustration at the farmers for the damage they have caused to the tourist industry and the thousands of jobs they are now putting at risk. Since the devaluation of the peso Argentina has become an increasingly popular tourist destination and the number of tourists has continued to go up year on year by around 10% since 2003. As yet there are no official figures revealing the impact that the crisis has had on the number of foreign visitors entering Argentina but it is likely that the crisis will be most felt in the budget travel sector. This is because the cheapest way to see Argentina is by long-distance coach. Coaches have been held up in some instances for days during the last three months. Making matters worse for the tourist industry is the fact that the farm workers strike has happened at a time when economists believe that inflation is running at least twice the official rate of 8%. This, coupled with food shortages, is making life very hard for hotel owners all over the county.\"The strike has no doubt affected our business, but it has occurred at a time of the year which is historically slow, so it's hard to gauge how much it has hurt,\" said John Johnston, owner of the Castillo Hotel in Salta. \"In the next month we may have a clearer picture. But what really is clearly curtailing commercial activity in general is inflation, exacerbated by the agricultural paralysis. \"One year ago a kilo of filet cost us 12 pesos ($4) - it's now up to 24 pesos ($8) and with the blockades it has been sometimes difficult to find in the last few months. International travellers probably don't perceive the problem unless they go to the same restaurant or hotel over a period of time. Of course, Argentina has a propensity towards inflation, and chaos, and the current government is promoting both.\"This feeling is echoed amongst other hotel owners around the country who might be sympathetic to the farmer's cause but are now blaming the farmers and an uncompromising government for their plight. While the stand off is now officially at an end after the government agreed to a reduction in export duty caps last week, many farmers have refused to call off protest action and hundreds of main roads remain blocked. Now Argentine truck drivers, many of whom have spent the last three months out of work due to the blockade, are also blocking roads. The truck drivers want guarantees that the farmers will reopen the grain trade for good. With no guarantees forthcoming the blockades are likely to continue.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "World news", "Travel"], "title": "Farmers' revolt hits tourist industry in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina's first female President, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, is fighting to restore her tattered reputation after a 70-day rural strike saw her public image plummet to its lowest level.Only one in four Argentinians has a positive image of her, according to figures released last week by a leading polling group. Three months ago, her approval rating was more than 50 per cent. Elected last October with 45 per cent of the popular vote, Fern\u00e1ndez's popularity has sunk in recent months as a lock-out by farmers threatened food shortages and frozen farm exports.Argentina's powerful farm lobby initially went on strike in mid-March after the introduction of controversial new taxes on soya, wheat and other key agricultural products. Fern\u00e1ndez won a brief reprieve after the main farming associations agreed to re-enter negotiations but angry farmers are still planning to go ahead with a huge demonstration today in the port town of Rosario.Fern\u00e1ndez will be heading a rally of her own today to mark Argentina's National Day. Behind the customary flag-waving and confetti, she must be asking herself where it all went wrong. The economy, the usual weather vane of public content, is growing at more than 6 per cent a year thanks to rocketing commodity prices. But there are some worrying economic and political trends, including inflation. Government figures put price rises at 9 per cent a year, but private sector analysts say the government is massaging the numbers. Independent data suggests inflation could be three times higher.Fern\u00e1ndez's attempts to remedy the situation rest on fixing prices and reducing exports - much the same as her husband, ex-President N\u00e9stor Kirchner, while in power. Then, as now, prices show no sign of slowing.'Even if it has the political will to solve the inflation problem, it will still take a year or two,' argues Alejandro Catterberg, director at polling firm Poliarqu\u00eda. Price rises are feeding into fresh concerns over increasing inequality and poverty. Fern\u00e1ndez prefers to cite government figures that suggest a drop in the number of poor - albeit small - to eight million (20.6 per cent of the population). Figures from the church and other private groups, however, say a jump to 12 million is more realistic. The President's handling of the farmers' strike has also raised questions about her capacity to govern. From the outset of conflict, she shunned opportunities to sit down with the rural protesters. Instead, she branded the farmers as rural 'oligarchs' and accused them of unpatriotically not sharing their profits.Her control within the ranks of power has also begun to look fragile. Three weeks ago, her economy minister Mart\u00edn Lousteau resigned over the unpopular new tax scheme. Meanwhile, several supposedly pro-Kirchner provincial governors broke ranks by talking individually with the farming lobby.More grating for many Argentinians is the personal style of their 55-year-old head of state. Public opinion surveys increasingly portray her as arrogant, intolerant of opposing voices and conflictive. However, with a strong majority in Congress and a flailing political opposition, Fern\u00e1ndez has enough political clout to avoid such confrontations, argues Ricardo Rouvier, a political analyst. 'Instead she continues to pursue a policy that quickly establishes groups as either friends or enemies.'Her choice of government spokespeople merely exacerbates the combative nature of her administration. In Luis D'El\u00eda and Guillermo Moreno, she has opted for two thuggish stalwarts of the pro-workers Peronist party. Harder to shrug off is her husband, N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who was president until December last year and is now head of the Peronist party. Credited with rescuing Argentina from its worst ever financial crash in 2001-2002, Kirchner continues to enjoy a positive image rating of around 50 per cent.A poll released last week suggests three in every 10 Argentinians believe it is the ex-president who is really calling the shots in the Presidential Palace - up from only one in 10 before the rural crisis.The changing fortunes of the economy also place the President in a very different political environment to her husband, who took over a country deep in debt, whereas Fern\u00e1ndez is sitting on federal reserves of more than $50bn.As inflation creeps up, Argentinian consumers are feeling a 'mismatch' between the booming economy and their decreasing personal spending power, according to Graciela Romer, a Buenos Aires-based political analyst.She said Argentinians were also looking for, in their first elected female head of state, a more sensitive, tolerant and conciliatory style of presidency. 'These are not the characteristics that Cristina is showing,' she said.\u00b7 The following clarification was printed in the Observer's For the record column, Sunday June 1 2008. We described Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner as 'Argentina's first female President'; she was the first who was democratically elected. Argentina's first female President was General Per\u00f3n's third wife, Maria Estela Martinez Cartas de Per\u00f3n, better known as Isabel Per\u00f3n, who took over after her husband's death in 1974.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina turns against new president as strike worsens"},{"date": "2008-04-21T23:09:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The opening sentence of Richard Gott's article on Argentina states: \"The late Guido di Tella, the intellectual and Anglophile foreign minister in the 1990s, hoped that Argentina, after its tragic experiences after 1950, would one day become a 'normal' country\" (Architects of the new Argentina, April 2).Di Tella was, in fact, following a tradition of distinguished economic historians from Argentina, Australia and Britain, trying to explain the very different outcomes of \"lands of recent settlement\" in terms of economic success.Gott then moves his focus to Argentina's current rulers, Nestor and Cristina Kirchner. \"This impressive political couple have presided over the country's economic recovery after the collapse of 2001\", and have established \"the best and most popular government in more than half a century\". If \"best\" means spectacular rates of growth after the 2001 collapse, and a considerable reduction in unemployment and poverty levels, then a comparison with similar results in Brazil and Chile, not to mention Peru and Mexico, points to exceptionally favourable international factors, not the Kirchners' policies.More importantly, if \"best\" refers to the quality of democracy in Argentina, the Kirchners have abused the presidential system, riding roughshod over the separation of powers and denouncing the press as part of an undefined \"conspiracy\" against them.The \"new\" Argentina of Richard Gott remains the \"old\", based on confrontation and a Manichean division between \"the people\" and \"the anti-people\". Violence and constant breaches of the law are tolerated or encouraged; the business of government is conducted almost secretively. The \"most popular\" Mrs Kirchner was elected in October 2007 with the lowest proportion of the vote since the return to democracy in 1983. Recent opinion polls indicate her popularity ratings hover around 40%.Argentina's culture minister, who is \"financing a research programme that delves into the social history of the past two centuries\", told Gott: \"We need ... to explain 'how and why we are what we are' ... Only then can the people of Argentina decide how their country's direction might be changed or maintained.\" I thought that elections, not government-funded research programmes, decided such things.Gott's claim that \"Argentina is more of an Indian country than the history books have led its people to suppose\" is absurd. He says that \"20 million people are of indigenous origin, while only 16 million can trace their ancestry back to Europe\". Yet repeated censuses have noted that the population of Argentina is 90% white. Di Tella's mistake, the normality that he envisaged, was to have dreamed of a country where the rule of law and the institutions of a liberal democracy would replace decades of arrogance, violence and authoritarianism. Tragically, the Kirchners' \"new Argentina\" and their view of normality seems to hark back to that sad past, as does Richard Gott.\u00b7 Celia Szusterman is principal lecturer in Spanish and Latin American studies at the University of Westminster c.szusterman@westminster.ac.uk", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Celia Szusterman: The 'new' Argentina seems very much like the old one"},{"date": "2008-09-10T16:28:30Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Jorge Noguero pulled his black-and-yellow taxi up to the Shell fueling pump in Buenos Aires and then watched as an attendant attached a thin tube to his engine to fill his tank with natural gas.\"I get a good performance, and it's 70 percent cheaper than gasoline,\" Noguero said, explaining why he converted his taxi to use natural gas.More vehicles run on natural gas in Argentina than anywhere else in the world, and that success is attracting a burst of interest from the US, where a big push is under way to convert buses, taxis and cars to natural gas.Representatives of American companies are flocking to Argentina to buy natural-gas compressors, conversion kits and fuel tanks to sell in the US, said Alessandro Carlo, president of Tomasetto Achille, a major Argentine maker of these products, based in Buenos Aires.Others from the US are heading south to gain technical know-how.\"We have someone visiting from the US every week,\" Carlo said. \"We're the pioneers.\"Many drivers in the US are clamoring to fill up with natural gas because it's about $1.50 cheaper a gallon on average than gasoline, according to industry figures.Others favour natural gas because it produces about 20 percent less greenhouse emissions. And some see natural gas as a way to reduce US dependency on imported oil.Texas oilman T. Boone Pickens is receiving attention for his plan to have a third of American vehicles using natural gas in 10 years.In the meantime, Honda Motor Co. is doubling production of the only passenger car sold in the US that runs on natural gas but only to 2,000 vehicles.\"There has never been a time in the United States where everything lined up for the growth of natural-gas vehicles like now,\" said Rich Kolodziej, the Washington-based president of the International Association of Natural Gas Vehicles.Galileo, also based in Buenos Aires, is one of the major Argentine producers cashing in on the favourable circumstances.\"We're dedicating our efforts now to sell to the US,\" said Fausto Maranca, Galileo's president. \"We see a lot of Americans at trade expositions in South America. We're more advanced than the United States' companies.\"Argentina's success began with a decision by the government in the early 1980s to keep natural-gas prices artificially low, something the US is unlikely to try.The Argentine government also made it easier for service stations to install the equipment needed to fuel vehicles and created a special program for several hundred taxis in Buenos Aires to convert to natural gas.The US seems to be moving in this direction, albeit slowly. Bills in Congress would create incentives to encourage consumers to buy more natural gas-driven cars, for service station owners to install natural-gas pumps and for manufacturers to build more natural-gas cars.\"You have to make it clear that it's a long-term policy, that the price will be cheaper for the long term,\" said Sylvie D'Apote, a Rio-based associate director for Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a private consulting company.Argentina's government made the push in favour of natural gas because the country had an abundance of the fuel while diesel supplies were dwindling.As Buenos Aires taxi drivers spread word of the savings by using natural gas, car owners began to convert their vehicles. This prompted service stations to begin making the investment to offer natural gas.Today, about 1.7 million vehicles run on natural gas in Argentina, or about 15 percent of all Argentine vehicles.By contrast, less than 1 percent of vehicles in the US run on natural gas.Other countries worldwide are converting to natural gas at a much faster rate, led by Pakistan and Brazil. South America, Bolivia, Venezuela and Peru are also making major pushes.\"It's worked out great,\" said Silvestre Prado, a Lima taxi driver. He paid $1,500 to convert his car and figures that he'll recoup the investment in 18 months through fuel savings.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Environment", "Energy", "Business", "US news", "World news", "Honda", "Gas"], "title": "Success of natural gas vehicles in Argentina attracts US companies"},{"date": "2008-09-10T16:28:30Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Jorge Noguero pulled his black-and-yellow taxi up to the Shell fueling pump in Buenos Aires and then watched as an attendant attached a thin tube to his engine to fill his tank with natural gas.\"I get a good performance, and it's 70 percent cheaper than gasoline,\" Noguero said, explaining why he converted his taxi to use natural gas.More vehicles run on natural gas in Argentina than anywhere else in the world, and that success is attracting a burst of interest from the US, where a big push is under way to convert buses, taxis and cars to natural gas.Representatives of American companies are flocking to Argentina to buy natural-gas compressors, conversion kits and fuel tanks to sell in the US, said Alessandro Carlo, president of Tomasetto Achille, a major Argentine maker of these products, based in Buenos Aires.Others from the US are heading south to gain technical know-how.\"We have someone visiting from the US every week,\" Carlo said. \"We're the pioneers.\"Many drivers in the US are clamoring to fill up with natural gas because it's about $1.50 cheaper a gallon on average than gasoline, according to industry figures.Others favour natural gas because it produces about 20 percent less greenhouse emissions. And some see natural gas as a way to reduce US dependency on imported oil.Texas oilman T. Boone Pickens is receiving attention for his plan to have a third of American vehicles using natural gas in 10 years.In the meantime, Honda Motor Co. is doubling production of the only passenger car sold in the US that runs on natural gas but only to 2,000 vehicles.\"There has never been a time in the United States where everything lined up for the growth of natural-gas vehicles like now,\" said Rich Kolodziej, the Washington-based president of the International Association of Natural Gas Vehicles.Galileo, also based in Buenos Aires, is one of the major Argentine producers cashing in on the favourable circumstances.\"We're dedicating our efforts now to sell to the US,\" said Fausto Maranca, Galileo's president. \"We see a lot of Americans at trade expositions in South America. We're more advanced than the United States' companies.\"Argentina's success began with a decision by the government in the early 1980s to keep natural-gas prices artificially low, something the US is unlikely to try.The Argentine government also made it easier for service stations to install the equipment needed to fuel vehicles and created a special program for several hundred taxis in Buenos Aires to convert to natural gas.The US seems to be moving in this direction, albeit slowly. Bills in Congress would create incentives to encourage consumers to buy more natural gas-driven cars, for service station owners to install natural-gas pumps and for manufacturers to build more natural-gas cars.\"You have to make it clear that it's a long-term policy, that the price will be cheaper for the long term,\" said Sylvie D'Apote, a Rio-based associate director for Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a private consulting company.Argentina's government made the push in favour of natural gas because the country had an abundance of the fuel while diesel supplies were dwindling.As Buenos Aires taxi drivers spread word of the savings by using natural gas, car owners began to convert their vehicles. This prompted service stations to begin making the investment to offer natural gas.Today, about 1.7 million vehicles run on natural gas in Argentina, or about 15 percent of all Argentine vehicles.By contrast, less than 1 percent of vehicles in the US run on natural gas.Other countries worldwide are converting to natural gas at a much faster rate, led by Pakistan and Brazil. South America, Bolivia, Venezuela and Peru are also making major pushes.\"It's worked out great,\" said Silvestre Prado, a Lima taxi driver. He paid $1,500 to convert his car and figures that he'll recoup the investment in 18 months through fuel savings.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Environment", "Energy", "Business", "US news", "World news", "Honda", "Gas"], "title": "Success of natural gas vehicles in Argentina attracts US companies"},{"date": "2008-08-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two former generals were sentenced to life in prison yesterday for the murder of a senator during Argentina's seven-year military dictatorship.Retired generals Antonio Bussi and Luciano Men\u00e9ndez were found guilty of kidnapping, torturing and murdering Senator Guillermo Vargas Aignasse.Vargas Aignasse disappeared on the day of a military coup on March 24 1976. The military later said it had released him from prison, but he was never seen again.Judge Gabriel Casas described the generals' actions as \"crimes against humanity.\" He read the verdict to cheers from the courtroom audience in the northern city of in San Miguel de Tucuman, where the victim was senator. Government estimates say between 13,000 and 30,000 people were killed in the purge on leftists.Argentine human rights secretary, Eduardo Luis Duhalde, praised the verdict. \"We are witnessing the end of impunity and the restoration of the truth, memory and justice,\" he said.Bussi, 82, will be allowed to remain under house arrest because he is over 75, a decision that enraged human rights activists outside the courtroom, who threw rocks and attacked police with sticks. Police used teargas to restrain the crowd.Men\u00e9ndez, 81, will remain in prison in another province, where he was convicted in July of human rights violations.After democracy was restored in 1983, Bussi was accused of kidnappings and assassinations, but an amnesty law prevented him from being prosecuted. He was elected mayor of Tucuman in 2003, then arrested three months later for the disappearance of Vargas Aignasse.In 2005, the supreme court repealed sweeping amnesties that had shielded former officers from prosecution.Associated Press", "tags": ["Argentina", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Human rights: Ex-generals jailed for life in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-09-10T16:28:30Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Jorge Noguero pulled his black-and-yellow taxi up to the Shell fueling pump in Buenos Aires and then watched as an attendant attached a thin tube to his engine to fill his tank with natural gas.\"I get a good performance, and it's 70 percent cheaper than gasoline,\" Noguero said, explaining why he converted his taxi to use natural gas.More vehicles run on natural gas in Argentina than anywhere else in the world, and that success is attracting a burst of interest from the US, where a big push is under way to convert buses, taxis and cars to natural gas.Representatives of American companies are flocking to Argentina to buy natural-gas compressors, conversion kits and fuel tanks to sell in the US, said Alessandro Carlo, president of Tomasetto Achille, a major Argentine maker of these products, based in Buenos Aires.Others from the US are heading south to gain technical know-how.\"We have someone visiting from the US every week,\" Carlo said. \"We're the pioneers.\"Many drivers in the US are clamoring to fill up with natural gas because it's about $1.50 cheaper a gallon on average than gasoline, according to industry figures.Others favour natural gas because it produces about 20 percent less greenhouse emissions. And some see natural gas as a way to reduce US dependency on imported oil.Texas oilman T. Boone Pickens is receiving attention for his plan to have a third of American vehicles using natural gas in 10 years.In the meantime, Honda Motor Co. is doubling production of the only passenger car sold in the US that runs on natural gas but only to 2,000 vehicles.\"There has never been a time in the United States where everything lined up for the growth of natural-gas vehicles like now,\" said Rich Kolodziej, the Washington-based president of the International Association of Natural Gas Vehicles.Galileo, also based in Buenos Aires, is one of the major Argentine producers cashing in on the favourable circumstances.\"We're dedicating our efforts now to sell to the US,\" said Fausto Maranca, Galileo's president. \"We see a lot of Americans at trade expositions in South America. We're more advanced than the United States' companies.\"Argentina's success began with a decision by the government in the early 1980s to keep natural-gas prices artificially low, something the US is unlikely to try.The Argentine government also made it easier for service stations to install the equipment needed to fuel vehicles and created a special program for several hundred taxis in Buenos Aires to convert to natural gas.The US seems to be moving in this direction, albeit slowly. Bills in Congress would create incentives to encourage consumers to buy more natural gas-driven cars, for service station owners to install natural-gas pumps and for manufacturers to build more natural-gas cars.\"You have to make it clear that it's a long-term policy, that the price will be cheaper for the long term,\" said Sylvie D'Apote, a Rio-based associate director for Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a private consulting company.Argentina's government made the push in favour of natural gas because the country had an abundance of the fuel while diesel supplies were dwindling.As Buenos Aires taxi drivers spread word of the savings by using natural gas, car owners began to convert their vehicles. This prompted service stations to begin making the investment to offer natural gas.Today, about 1.7 million vehicles run on natural gas in Argentina, or about 15 percent of all Argentine vehicles.By contrast, less than 1 percent of vehicles in the US run on natural gas.Other countries worldwide are converting to natural gas at a much faster rate, led by Pakistan and Brazil. South America, Bolivia, Venezuela and Peru are also making major pushes.\"It's worked out great,\" said Silvestre Prado, a Lima taxi driver. He paid $1,500 to convert his car and figures that he'll recoup the investment in 18 months through fuel savings.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Environment", "Energy", "Business", "US news", "World news", "Honda", "Gas"], "title": "Success of natural gas vehicles in Argentina attracts US companies"},{"date": "2008-08-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two former generals were sentenced to life in prison yesterday for the murder of a senator during Argentina's seven-year military dictatorship.Retired generals Antonio Bussi and Luciano Men\u00e9ndez were found guilty of kidnapping, torturing and murdering Senator Guillermo Vargas Aignasse.Vargas Aignasse disappeared on the day of a military coup on March 24 1976. The military later said it had released him from prison, but he was never seen again.Judge Gabriel Casas described the generals' actions as \"crimes against humanity.\" He read the verdict to cheers from the courtroom audience in the northern city of in San Miguel de Tucuman, where the victim was senator. Government estimates say between 13,000 and 30,000 people were killed in the purge on leftists.Argentine human rights secretary, Eduardo Luis Duhalde, praised the verdict. \"We are witnessing the end of impunity and the restoration of the truth, memory and justice,\" he said.Bussi, 82, will be allowed to remain under house arrest because he is over 75, a decision that enraged human rights activists outside the courtroom, who threw rocks and attacked police with sticks. Police used teargas to restrain the crowd.Men\u00e9ndez, 81, will remain in prison in another province, where he was convicted in July of human rights violations.After democracy was restored in 1983, Bussi was accused of kidnappings and assassinations, but an amnesty law prevented him from being prosecuted. He was elected mayor of Tucuman in 2003, then arrested three months later for the disappearance of Vargas Aignasse.In 2005, the supreme court repealed sweeping amnesties that had shielded former officers from prosecution.Associated Press", "tags": ["Argentina", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Human rights: Ex-generals jailed for life in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-07-04T09:26:47Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The cinematic world is celebrating the rediscovery of missing scenes from German director Fritz Lang's legendary silent film Metropolis, which turned up in the archive of a Buenos Aires museum after being thought lost for 80 years.Key scenes cut from the science fiction picture produced on the outskirts of Berlin, either because they were considered too brutal, or for length reasons, will be available for the first time since May 1927, when the original version was last shown in Berlin, where it flopped.Rainer Rother, the head of Berlin's film museum, Deutsche Kinemathek, called the find a \"sensational discovery\", saying one of the most famous films of all time \"can now be seen through new eyes\".Metropolis, which is set in a futuristic city state and explores the clash between workers and their capitalist exploiters, was one of the most expensive films made at the time, but was hated by critics and the German public alike. It was shortened by the American company Paramount, which considered it impenetrable for the US market, leading to an oversimplification of the plot, the disappearance of key scenes, and the sidelining of significant characters.The restored version is said to throw light on questions that have tantalised generations of film buffs.The uncut version is said to solve the mystery of why Maria, the workers' insurrectionist leader, is mistaken by a baying mob for her doppelganger, a female robot. Schmale, a spy who is sent by the autocratic leader of the futuristic city, Joh Frederson, to pursue his son, Freder, plays a minor role in the cut version, but a significant supporting role in the original. \"The role ... can finally be understood,\" Rother said. A scene in which children are saved from drowning in the workers' underworld is also said to be \"much more dramatic\" and violent than in the cut version.The rediscovery, revealed by the newspaper Die Zeit, came to light after Paula Felix-Didier, curator of Buenos Aires' Museo del Cine, was told by a former film club director that the full-length version had been gathering dust in the museum's archive since the 1990s. Fearing that the discovery would not be properly appreciated in Argentina, she flew with the footage to Germany this week to present it to experts, who deemed it to be authentic.Die Zeit has reconstructed the story of how the film found its way to Argentina. A copy of the long version of the film was first sent to Buenos Aires in 1928 at the request of the Terra film distribution company. A film critic called Manuel Pe\u00f1a Rodr\u00edguez obtained the reels afterwards, selling them in the 1960s to Argentina's national art fund. A copy of them was passed to the Museo del Cine in 1992, but their value was not fully realised then.Helmut Possman, director of the Friedrich-Wilhelm Murnau foundation, which holds the rights to Metropolis, said the uncut film, which is badly scratched, would be made available to the public after it had been restored.", "tags": ["Film", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Culture", "Media", "Argentina", "World news", "Fritz Lang", "Metropolis"], "title": "Film: Long lost scenes from Fritz Lang's Metropolis found in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-09-10T16:28:30Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Jorge Noguero pulled his black-and-yellow taxi up to the Shell fueling pump in Buenos Aires and then watched as an attendant attached a thin tube to his engine to fill his tank with natural gas.\"I get a good performance, and it's 70 percent cheaper than gasoline,\" Noguero said, explaining why he converted his taxi to use natural gas.More vehicles run on natural gas in Argentina than anywhere else in the world, and that success is attracting a burst of interest from the US, where a big push is under way to convert buses, taxis and cars to natural gas.Representatives of American companies are flocking to Argentina to buy natural-gas compressors, conversion kits and fuel tanks to sell in the US, said Alessandro Carlo, president of Tomasetto Achille, a major Argentine maker of these products, based in Buenos Aires.Others from the US are heading south to gain technical know-how.\"We have someone visiting from the US every week,\" Carlo said. \"We're the pioneers.\"Many drivers in the US are clamoring to fill up with natural gas because it's about $1.50 cheaper a gallon on average than gasoline, according to industry figures.Others favour natural gas because it produces about 20 percent less greenhouse emissions. And some see natural gas as a way to reduce US dependency on imported oil.Texas oilman T. Boone Pickens is receiving attention for his plan to have a third of American vehicles using natural gas in 10 years.In the meantime, Honda Motor Co. is doubling production of the only passenger car sold in the US that runs on natural gas but only to 2,000 vehicles.\"There has never been a time in the United States where everything lined up for the growth of natural-gas vehicles like now,\" said Rich Kolodziej, the Washington-based president of the International Association of Natural Gas Vehicles.Galileo, also based in Buenos Aires, is one of the major Argentine producers cashing in on the favourable circumstances.\"We're dedicating our efforts now to sell to the US,\" said Fausto Maranca, Galileo's president. \"We see a lot of Americans at trade expositions in South America. We're more advanced than the United States' companies.\"Argentina's success began with a decision by the government in the early 1980s to keep natural-gas prices artificially low, something the US is unlikely to try.The Argentine government also made it easier for service stations to install the equipment needed to fuel vehicles and created a special program for several hundred taxis in Buenos Aires to convert to natural gas.The US seems to be moving in this direction, albeit slowly. Bills in Congress would create incentives to encourage consumers to buy more natural gas-driven cars, for service station owners to install natural-gas pumps and for manufacturers to build more natural-gas cars.\"You have to make it clear that it's a long-term policy, that the price will be cheaper for the long term,\" said Sylvie D'Apote, a Rio-based associate director for Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a private consulting company.Argentina's government made the push in favour of natural gas because the country had an abundance of the fuel while diesel supplies were dwindling.As Buenos Aires taxi drivers spread word of the savings by using natural gas, car owners began to convert their vehicles. This prompted service stations to begin making the investment to offer natural gas.Today, about 1.7 million vehicles run on natural gas in Argentina, or about 15 percent of all Argentine vehicles.By contrast, less than 1 percent of vehicles in the US run on natural gas.Other countries worldwide are converting to natural gas at a much faster rate, led by Pakistan and Brazil. South America, Bolivia, Venezuela and Peru are also making major pushes.\"It's worked out great,\" said Silvestre Prado, a Lima taxi driver. He paid $1,500 to convert his car and figures that he'll recoup the investment in 18 months through fuel savings.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Environment", "Energy", "Business", "US news", "World news", "Honda", "Gas"], "title": "Success of natural gas vehicles in Argentina attracts US companies"},{"date": "2008-08-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two former generals were sentenced to life in prison yesterday for the murder of a senator during Argentina's seven-year military dictatorship.Retired generals Antonio Bussi and Luciano Men\u00e9ndez were found guilty of kidnapping, torturing and murdering Senator Guillermo Vargas Aignasse.Vargas Aignasse disappeared on the day of a military coup on March 24 1976. The military later said it had released him from prison, but he was never seen again.Judge Gabriel Casas described the generals' actions as \"crimes against humanity.\" He read the verdict to cheers from the courtroom audience in the northern city of in San Miguel de Tucuman, where the victim was senator. Government estimates say between 13,000 and 30,000 people were killed in the purge on leftists.Argentine human rights secretary, Eduardo Luis Duhalde, praised the verdict. \"We are witnessing the end of impunity and the restoration of the truth, memory and justice,\" he said.Bussi, 82, will be allowed to remain under house arrest because he is over 75, a decision that enraged human rights activists outside the courtroom, who threw rocks and attacked police with sticks. Police used teargas to restrain the crowd.Men\u00e9ndez, 81, will remain in prison in another province, where he was convicted in July of human rights violations.After democracy was restored in 1983, Bussi was accused of kidnappings and assassinations, but an amnesty law prevented him from being prosecuted. He was elected mayor of Tucuman in 2003, then arrested three months later for the disappearance of Vargas Aignasse.In 2005, the supreme court repealed sweeping amnesties that had shielded former officers from prosecution.Associated Press", "tags": ["Argentina", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Human rights: Ex-generals jailed for life in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-07-04T09:26:47Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The cinematic world is celebrating the rediscovery of missing scenes from German director Fritz Lang's legendary silent film Metropolis, which turned up in the archive of a Buenos Aires museum after being thought lost for 80 years.Key scenes cut from the science fiction picture produced on the outskirts of Berlin, either because they were considered too brutal, or for length reasons, will be available for the first time since May 1927, when the original version was last shown in Berlin, where it flopped.Rainer Rother, the head of Berlin's film museum, Deutsche Kinemathek, called the find a \"sensational discovery\", saying one of the most famous films of all time \"can now be seen through new eyes\".Metropolis, which is set in a futuristic city state and explores the clash between workers and their capitalist exploiters, was one of the most expensive films made at the time, but was hated by critics and the German public alike. It was shortened by the American company Paramount, which considered it impenetrable for the US market, leading to an oversimplification of the plot, the disappearance of key scenes, and the sidelining of significant characters.The restored version is said to throw light on questions that have tantalised generations of film buffs.The uncut version is said to solve the mystery of why Maria, the workers' insurrectionist leader, is mistaken by a baying mob for her doppelganger, a female robot. Schmale, a spy who is sent by the autocratic leader of the futuristic city, Joh Frederson, to pursue his son, Freder, plays a minor role in the cut version, but a significant supporting role in the original. \"The role ... can finally be understood,\" Rother said. A scene in which children are saved from drowning in the workers' underworld is also said to be \"much more dramatic\" and violent than in the cut version.The rediscovery, revealed by the newspaper Die Zeit, came to light after Paula Felix-Didier, curator of Buenos Aires' Museo del Cine, was told by a former film club director that the full-length version had been gathering dust in the museum's archive since the 1990s. Fearing that the discovery would not be properly appreciated in Argentina, she flew with the footage to Germany this week to present it to experts, who deemed it to be authentic.Die Zeit has reconstructed the story of how the film found its way to Argentina. A copy of the long version of the film was first sent to Buenos Aires in 1928 at the request of the Terra film distribution company. A film critic called Manuel Pe\u00f1a Rodr\u00edguez obtained the reels afterwards, selling them in the 1960s to Argentina's national art fund. A copy of them was passed to the Museo del Cine in 1992, but their value was not fully realised then.Helmut Possman, director of the Friedrich-Wilhelm Murnau foundation, which holds the rights to Metropolis, said the uncut film, which is badly scratched, would be made available to the public after it had been restored.", "tags": ["Film", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Culture", "Media", "Argentina", "World news", "Fritz Lang", "Metropolis"], "title": "Film: Long lost scenes from Fritz Lang's Metropolis found in Argentina"},{"date": "2008-07-21T19:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina faces a tough time. Last week, after a dramatic 18-hour session congress was in stalemate. The vice-president, Julio Cobos, cast the deciding vote and rejected his own government's proposal to increase a controversial tax on agricultural exports. This proposed tax increase is a major concern to Argentina's farmers as the country is a producer of high value crops for the international market, such as soya, grain and beef. The proposal has provoked famers to protest, blockading roads and causing food shortages across the country.Vice-President Cobos, who is also the leader of congress, was visibly upset after casting the deciding vote. \"It has been the most difficult day of my life,\" he said. The bill, which required senatorial approval to become law, had been approved by the lower house of congress on July 5. The outcome is not only a huge blow to the president, Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, but to the whole of the government, which had put its full political weight behind the new measures.Although it would appear that the farmers have won a critical battle, the dispute is far from over for Argentina. Cobos has previously expressed concerns about the motives behind tying the tax to the value of grain on international markets and his vote could lead to a political crisis. The vice-president belongs to the Radical Civic Union party, a party that has traditionally opposed the Peronist party headed by De Kirchner.The dispute began in March when, in a bid to reduce exports and drive down prices, President de Kirchner announced a greater than 10% sliding-scale increase in export taxes (from 35% to 45%) on soya and other grain.De Kirchner argued that her government needed to raise taxes on agricultural exports to help build a new Argentina, to invest the money in schools, hospitals and new infrastructure. But the tax increases have led to a confrontation between the government and the agricultural sector, one of the most powerful economic blocs in Argentina, which has historically been linked with the rich landowners. The farmers protesting against the measure launched strikes and roadblocks which forced the president to agree to submit the proposed tax increase to a vote in congress. The problem now is that the ruling bloc is fractured. Several prominent provincial governors and former governors of the Peronist party have publicly broken with the government. Much will now depend on what the presidential duo will do next. The dispute has had a huge impact on De Kirchner's image \u2013 according to a public opinion poll from Poliarqu\u00eda, her rating is now below 20 points, having lost 36 points since the beginning of the year.Argentina is struggling to implement a coherent agricultural policy that could help to ease the conflict \u2013 a delicate problem for a nation that is the world's third-biggest soya producer, sixth-biggest wheat producer and second-biggest corn exporter. According to Proyecto Sur, run by the ex-presidential candidate and film director Pino Solanas, the vulnerable, and the majority of the workforce in Argentina, are at the sharp end of the problems and are hostages of both the economic boycott by the farmers and the ineptitude of the government. The constant motorway blockades have had a clear effect: shortages, a surge in food prices, economic recession and a rise in unemployment \u2013 further fuelled by government policies that since 2003 have pushed for the extensive cultivation of soya and that much of the production ends up on the black market.Until the government implements a fairer agricultural policy, the conflict will continue to create discontent and deeper social and economic divisions.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Agriculture", "World news"], "title": "Leonardo Boix: The dispute between the government and farmers in Argentina is far from over"},{"date": "2009-02-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina ordered a British bishop who has questioned the truth of the Holocaust to leave the country last night or face expulsion, reigniting a controversy which has dogged the Vatican. The interior ministry said Richard Williamson, a conservative Catholic who headed a seminary near Buenos Aires, had 10 days to leave.The unexpected decision cited the bishop's Holocaust denial as well as his alleged failure to reveal \"his true activity\" in Argentina. He had apparently registered as an employee of a non-governmental group.\"The interior minister ... orders Richard Nelson Williamson to leave the country within 10 days or be expelled,\" the statement said. Jewish groups welcomed the move. Julio Schlosser, general secretary of the Jewish social welfare organisation Amia, said Williamson's views \"affects the civic harmony and the social peace that this country needs so much\".The British-born cleric has been at the centre of a storm since last month when the Pope lifted his excommunication to try to heal a rift between the Vatican and rebels in the breakaway Society of St Pius X (SSPX). The decision provoked anger because Williamson had recently repeated claims there were no Nazi gas chambers and that the number of Jews killed in the second world war was 300,000 rather than 6 million.\"I believe that the historical evidence is strongly against, is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler,\" he said.Protests by Jewish groups and the German government rattled the Vatican and imperilled a papal trip to Israel. To try to repair the damage the pope hosted Jewish leaders in Rome and said the Nazis' attempt to wipe out European Jewry was a \"crime against God\".He said he had been unaware of Williamson's views and had ordered him to recant.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, offered to reconsider his views with fresh reading about the Nazi genocide. \"And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" he said. Argentina's decision means that research is likely to take place elsewhere.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "Argentina expels Catholic bishop who questions Holocaust"},{"date": "2009-02-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina ordered a British bishop who has questioned the truth of the Holocaust to leave the country last night or face expulsion, reigniting a controversy which has dogged the Vatican. The interior ministry said Richard Williamson, a conservative Catholic who headed a seminary near Buenos Aires, had 10 days to leave.The unexpected decision cited the bishop's Holocaust denial as well as his alleged failure to reveal \"his true activity\" in Argentina. He had apparently registered as an employee of a non-governmental group.\"The interior minister ... orders Richard Nelson Williamson to leave the country within 10 days or be expelled,\" the statement said. Jewish groups welcomed the move. Julio Schlosser, general secretary of the Jewish social welfare organisation Amia, said Williamson's views \"affects the civic harmony and the social peace that this country needs so much\".The British-born cleric has been at the centre of a storm since last month when the Pope lifted his excommunication to try to heal a rift between the Vatican and rebels in the breakaway Society of St Pius X (SSPX). The decision provoked anger because Williamson had recently repeated claims there were no Nazi gas chambers and that the number of Jews killed in the second world war was 300,000 rather than 6 million.\"I believe that the historical evidence is strongly against, is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler,\" he said.Protests by Jewish groups and the German government rattled the Vatican and imperilled a papal trip to Israel. To try to repair the damage the pope hosted Jewish leaders in Rome and said the Nazis' attempt to wipe out European Jewry was a \"crime against God\".He said he had been unaware of Williamson's views and had ordered him to recant.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, offered to reconsider his views with fresh reading about the Nazi genocide. \"And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" he said. Argentina's decision means that research is likely to take place elsewhere.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "Argentina expels Catholic bishop who questions Holocaust"},{"date": "2009-01-08T17:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine justice ministry is currently concerned about national safety, and its preoccupation has nothing to do with terrorism, violent crime or drug trafficking. Instead, it is worried about a shortage of coins and the growing black market where coins are purchased. As strange as this may sound from abroad, a lack of coins can become a nightmare for bus users, retailers and average citizens in Argentina.The ministry's concern started some three months ago when the Chamber of Chinese Supermarkets, which represents the hundreds of grocery stores owned by Chinese citizens in Argentina, filed a legal complaint arguing that private money transport companies were selling coins. Like most small- and medium-sized retailers, grocery stores need large amounts of coins to use as change.They usually get the coins from banks, but banks have been handing them out sparsely, because they say there is a coin shortage. Therefore, small retailers must find other providers, and this is when money transporters, who can hoard the coins they transport and replace them with bills, step into the picture in the guise of coin salesmen. Retailers pay around 100 pesos for roughly 88-95 pesos worth of coins. Experts say this business is more profitable than, for example, manufacturing fake coins.Hoarding coins is not in itself a crime, so when the chamber filed the complaint, the justice ministry intervened to find a way to fill the legal loophole. It came up with the idea of charging coin hoarders and dealers with putting national security at risk. In a subsequent raid in Buenos Aires on October 9, police seized 134 barrels full of coins from a private money transport company. After three weeks of counting, the police announced that 21 barrels contained fake coins while the rest had to a total of 4.5 million pesos (some $1.3m or \u00a3876,700).If it ended there, the story would be no more than a witty scheme to make some extra money through shady operations. However, the problem is not reduced to one company and a few stores. The central bank, which regulates bank activities, fined five banks last year for not handing out coins to clients, as is mandatory, and 10 other banks are now under investigation.And if the shortage troubles retailers, it is more disturbing for Argentineans who must use buses or want to do small shopping. According to regulation, banks are under the obligation to give up to 20 pesos worth of coins to any person who requires it (the amount was lowered last year from 100 pesos because it was impossible to meet). Banks regularly dismiss the regulations, however, and hand out as little as three pesos in coins. With bus fares ranging from 0.90 to 1.50 pesos, this is obviously not enough.The shortage is considered a national problem, but it is mainly centred in the greater Buenos Aires area, whose population of roughly 13 million people represent around 30% of the country's population. The core public transportation in this metropolitan area is a bus network of more than 200 lines owned by dozens of different companies. Unlike other cities in the country and abroad, buses cannot be used with pre-paid magnetic fare cards. Save a few exceptions, the only way to pay the bus fare is onboard with coins, which are therefore in large demand. Because all their income is in metallic, metropolitan bus companies are suspected of acting in cohorts with money transportation companies to sell coins instead of depositing them in banks, which would return them to the financial system.In a Wall Street Journal op-ed this week, an American university professor, George Selgin, offered some advice to solve the problem. Selgin believes that the Argentine government should allow private companies to issue distinct coins that people can choose or not to use. But Argentine monetary history shows that such as system is likely to fail.Until the early 1990s, coin-sized tokens were the only way to pay for underground fares and public phones, and they are still used in some video game arcades. Tokens were cumbersome to carry, as they could be used only for specific situations and were truly \"distinctive private money\", as they were not interchangeable (phone tokens could not be used in the underground and vice-versa). Another variety of counterfeit money has existed recurrently in Argentine history in the form of provincial and national government bonds used to pay workers whenever cash was scarce. During the 2001-2002 national economic crisis some 20 different bonds circulated in the country at the same time in parallel with legal money. The first system is recalled as highly unpractical for users, the second as harmful to monetary policy.While it is accused of inefficiency, the central bank says 2007 marked an all-time high in the number of coins manufactured and says that production went up an extra 12% in 2008, setting a new high in circulation. According to the central bank, there is an average of roughly 100 pesos worth of coins on the street for every Argentine citizen.Meanwhile, people must struggle to pay their bus fares and argue with shop clerks over change. Want to buy a 2.50 peso Coke? Better pay with a fiver so the attendant can give you a 2-peso bill and 0.50 in change. Paying with four pesos (two 2-peso bills) would require the shopkeeper to part with at least a 1 peso coin and a 0.50 coin \u2013 too much of a commodity.Argentina has always been a country where larger bills \u2013 50s and 100s \u2013 are far easier to come by than small change, be it coins or 5- and 10-peso bills. When pennies existed in this country during the 1990s, they were not usually accepted by shopkeepers because they were considered a nuisance. Thus, in Argentina and unlike other countries, the phrase \"Got any spare change?\" is common to most people, not only the corner beggar. The current shortage has simply made it more popular then ever.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Argentina", "Money"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: A small change shortage in Argentina leads to chaos"},{"date": "2009-02-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina ordered a British bishop who has questioned the truth of the Holocaust to leave the country last night or face expulsion, reigniting a controversy which has dogged the Vatican. The interior ministry said Richard Williamson, a conservative Catholic who headed a seminary near Buenos Aires, had 10 days to leave.The unexpected decision cited the bishop's Holocaust denial as well as his alleged failure to reveal \"his true activity\" in Argentina. He had apparently registered as an employee of a non-governmental group.\"The interior minister ... orders Richard Nelson Williamson to leave the country within 10 days or be expelled,\" the statement said. Jewish groups welcomed the move. Julio Schlosser, general secretary of the Jewish social welfare organisation Amia, said Williamson's views \"affects the civic harmony and the social peace that this country needs so much\".The British-born cleric has been at the centre of a storm since last month when the Pope lifted his excommunication to try to heal a rift between the Vatican and rebels in the breakaway Society of St Pius X (SSPX). The decision provoked anger because Williamson had recently repeated claims there were no Nazi gas chambers and that the number of Jews killed in the second world war was 300,000 rather than 6 million.\"I believe that the historical evidence is strongly against, is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler,\" he said.Protests by Jewish groups and the German government rattled the Vatican and imperilled a papal trip to Israel. To try to repair the damage the pope hosted Jewish leaders in Rome and said the Nazis' attempt to wipe out European Jewry was a \"crime against God\".He said he had been unaware of Williamson's views and had ordered him to recant.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, offered to reconsider his views with fresh reading about the Nazi genocide. \"And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" he said. Argentina's decision means that research is likely to take place elsewhere.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "Argentina expels Catholic bishop who questions Holocaust"},{"date": "2009-01-08T17:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine justice ministry is currently concerned about national safety, and its preoccupation has nothing to do with terrorism, violent crime or drug trafficking. Instead, it is worried about a shortage of coins and the growing black market where coins are purchased. As strange as this may sound from abroad, a lack of coins can become a nightmare for bus users, retailers and average citizens in Argentina.The ministry's concern started some three months ago when the Chamber of Chinese Supermarkets, which represents the hundreds of grocery stores owned by Chinese citizens in Argentina, filed a legal complaint arguing that private money transport companies were selling coins. Like most small- and medium-sized retailers, grocery stores need large amounts of coins to use as change.They usually get the coins from banks, but banks have been handing them out sparsely, because they say there is a coin shortage. Therefore, small retailers must find other providers, and this is when money transporters, who can hoard the coins they transport and replace them with bills, step into the picture in the guise of coin salesmen. Retailers pay around 100 pesos for roughly 88-95 pesos worth of coins. Experts say this business is more profitable than, for example, manufacturing fake coins.Hoarding coins is not in itself a crime, so when the chamber filed the complaint, the justice ministry intervened to find a way to fill the legal loophole. It came up with the idea of charging coin hoarders and dealers with putting national security at risk. In a subsequent raid in Buenos Aires on October 9, police seized 134 barrels full of coins from a private money transport company. After three weeks of counting, the police announced that 21 barrels contained fake coins while the rest had to a total of 4.5 million pesos (some $1.3m or \u00a3876,700).If it ended there, the story would be no more than a witty scheme to make some extra money through shady operations. However, the problem is not reduced to one company and a few stores. The central bank, which regulates bank activities, fined five banks last year for not handing out coins to clients, as is mandatory, and 10 other banks are now under investigation.And if the shortage troubles retailers, it is more disturbing for Argentineans who must use buses or want to do small shopping. According to regulation, banks are under the obligation to give up to 20 pesos worth of coins to any person who requires it (the amount was lowered last year from 100 pesos because it was impossible to meet). Banks regularly dismiss the regulations, however, and hand out as little as three pesos in coins. With bus fares ranging from 0.90 to 1.50 pesos, this is obviously not enough.The shortage is considered a national problem, but it is mainly centred in the greater Buenos Aires area, whose population of roughly 13 million people represent around 30% of the country's population. The core public transportation in this metropolitan area is a bus network of more than 200 lines owned by dozens of different companies. Unlike other cities in the country and abroad, buses cannot be used with pre-paid magnetic fare cards. Save a few exceptions, the only way to pay the bus fare is onboard with coins, which are therefore in large demand. Because all their income is in metallic, metropolitan bus companies are suspected of acting in cohorts with money transportation companies to sell coins instead of depositing them in banks, which would return them to the financial system.In a Wall Street Journal op-ed this week, an American university professor, George Selgin, offered some advice to solve the problem. Selgin believes that the Argentine government should allow private companies to issue distinct coins that people can choose or not to use. But Argentine monetary history shows that such as system is likely to fail.Until the early 1990s, coin-sized tokens were the only way to pay for underground fares and public phones, and they are still used in some video game arcades. Tokens were cumbersome to carry, as they could be used only for specific situations and were truly \"distinctive private money\", as they were not interchangeable (phone tokens could not be used in the underground and vice-versa). Another variety of counterfeit money has existed recurrently in Argentine history in the form of provincial and national government bonds used to pay workers whenever cash was scarce. During the 2001-2002 national economic crisis some 20 different bonds circulated in the country at the same time in parallel with legal money. The first system is recalled as highly unpractical for users, the second as harmful to monetary policy.While it is accused of inefficiency, the central bank says 2007 marked an all-time high in the number of coins manufactured and says that production went up an extra 12% in 2008, setting a new high in circulation. According to the central bank, there is an average of roughly 100 pesos worth of coins on the street for every Argentine citizen.Meanwhile, people must struggle to pay their bus fares and argue with shop clerks over change. Want to buy a 2.50 peso Coke? Better pay with a fiver so the attendant can give you a 2-peso bill and 0.50 in change. Paying with four pesos (two 2-peso bills) would require the shopkeeper to part with at least a 1 peso coin and a 0.50 coin \u2013 too much of a commodity.Argentina has always been a country where larger bills \u2013 50s and 100s \u2013 are far easier to come by than small change, be it coins or 5- and 10-peso bills. When pennies existed in this country during the 1990s, they were not usually accepted by shopkeepers because they were considered a nuisance. Thus, in Argentina and unlike other countries, the phrase \"Got any spare change?\" is common to most people, not only the corner beggar. The current shortage has simply made it more popular then ever.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Argentina", "Money"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: A small change shortage in Argentina leads to chaos"},{"date": "2009-02-25T10:32:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A Roman Catholic bishop who questioned the truth of the Holocaust arrived in Britain today after being asked to leave Argentina.Richard Williamson, who left Buenos Aires wearing a baseball cap and sunglasses yesterday, arrived at Heathrow airport dressed all in black and wearing a dog collar. Several police officers escorted him through a media scrum, and a photographer was manhandled by police during the jostling.The British-born bishop did not comment and was whisked away in a silver Land Rover.Williamson had been at the St Pius X seminary in Buenos Aires for five years, but last week the Argentinian government gave him 10 days to leave the country.Williamson caused outrage with his remarks, which surfaced shortly after the Vatican's recent decision to welcome him back into the Catholic church. He is reported to have claimed in a television interview last month that historical evidence suggested there \"were no gas chambers\" and that only 300,000 Jews died in Nazi concentration camps.He has since declared himself ready to think again, and in a recent interview with Spiegel magazine, the bishop reiterated that he was prepared to \"review the historical evidence\". Most historians agree around 6 million Jews were killed under Hitler's regime.\"Historical evidence is at issue, not emotions. And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" the disgraced bishop said.He added that he would test his views not by travelling to Auschwitz but by reading a book on the camp by Jean-Claude Pressac, a former Holocaust denier who revised his views after a visit.The Catholic bishops of England and Wales have already condemned Bishop Williamson's views on the Holocaust as \"totally unacceptable\" and have stressed that the lifting of his excommunication was for unrelated matters. A spokesman for the Catholic bishops conference of England and Wales said he had \"absolutely no idea\" where Bishop Williamson was going after his arrival in Britain.He said: \"He does not fall into the jurisdiction of any of the England and Wales bishops because he is not in full communion with the Catholic church.\"He will have to make his own arrangements, whether that is with a Catholic priest or with somebody else.\"From the hierarchy's perspective, he has got nothing to do with the bishops of this country.\"Williamson did have one supporter at Heathrow; Michele Renouf, a socialite turned documentary-maker, said she wanted to represent and support him in getting his views across to the public.She blamed Germany - which has a Holocaust-denial law - for causing the \"scrum of Jewish protests\" and said it was a \"disgrace\" that there could be no debate on the issue. Renouf, who came to Heathrow with her legal team, has become increasingly known in recent years for associating with those who deny the Holocaust. She supported the historian, David Irving, during his trial in Vienna for Holocaust denial. Last year, she helped put together a legal team for an Australian academic, Frederick Toben, after he was arrested at Heathrow airport.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, belongs to an ultra-traditionalist religious order that opposes recent reforms by Rome.The decision to remove the cleric from the seminary was an attempt to smooth over frayed relations with the Vatican, said a spokesman for Williamson's religious order, the Society of Saint Pius X, adding that Williamson's views in no way reflected those of the order.Williamson is believed to be at the London headquarters of the Society of Saint Pius in Wimbledon, south London, where the Land Rover that took him from Heathrow was parked outside. Two priests who answered the door refused to comment.Williamson's opinions sparked outrage among Jews and embarrassed the Vatican, which ordered the bishop to publicly recant. The Vatican, along with Williamson's order, claims to have had no prior knowledge of his beliefs about the Holocaust before lifting his excommunication.The excommunication in 1988 was lifted along with those of three other bishops ordained without Vatican permission by the renegade French archbishop, Marcel Lefebvre.Pope Benedict had made healing the breach between the Society of Saint Pius X and mainstream Catholics one of the chief aims of his papacy. The British bishop had welcomed his entry back into the church as a \"great step forward\", although he continued to denounce the Vatican as liberal.\"There is still a long way to go before the neo-modernists in Rome, conscious or unconscious, realise \u2013 if ever! \u2013 how they mistake the faith,\" Williamson said.The bishop has sought to prevent his original television interview from being broadcast on the internet, but a German court has rejected his argument.Lord Janner, the president of the Holocaust Educational Trust, said: \"It would be much better if he was not here, but as a British citizen it cannot be prevented.\"", "tags": ["Religion", "Holocaust", "UK news", "Argentina", "Catholicism", "Judaism", "Second world war"], "title": "Holocaust-denying bishop lands in UK after expulsion from Argentina"},{"date": "2009-02-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina ordered a British bishop who has questioned the truth of the Holocaust to leave the country last night or face expulsion, reigniting a controversy which has dogged the Vatican. The interior ministry said Richard Williamson, a conservative Catholic who headed a seminary near Buenos Aires, had 10 days to leave.The unexpected decision cited the bishop's Holocaust denial as well as his alleged failure to reveal \"his true activity\" in Argentina. He had apparently registered as an employee of a non-governmental group.\"The interior minister ... orders Richard Nelson Williamson to leave the country within 10 days or be expelled,\" the statement said. Jewish groups welcomed the move. Julio Schlosser, general secretary of the Jewish social welfare organisation Amia, said Williamson's views \"affects the civic harmony and the social peace that this country needs so much\".The British-born cleric has been at the centre of a storm since last month when the Pope lifted his excommunication to try to heal a rift between the Vatican and rebels in the breakaway Society of St Pius X (SSPX). The decision provoked anger because Williamson had recently repeated claims there were no Nazi gas chambers and that the number of Jews killed in the second world war was 300,000 rather than 6 million.\"I believe that the historical evidence is strongly against, is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler,\" he said.Protests by Jewish groups and the German government rattled the Vatican and imperilled a papal trip to Israel. To try to repair the damage the pope hosted Jewish leaders in Rome and said the Nazis' attempt to wipe out European Jewry was a \"crime against God\".He said he had been unaware of Williamson's views and had ordered him to recant.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, offered to reconsider his views with fresh reading about the Nazi genocide. \"And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" he said. Argentina's decision means that research is likely to take place elsewhere.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "Argentina expels Catholic bishop who questions Holocaust"},{"date": "2009-01-08T17:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine justice ministry is currently concerned about national safety, and its preoccupation has nothing to do with terrorism, violent crime or drug trafficking. Instead, it is worried about a shortage of coins and the growing black market where coins are purchased. As strange as this may sound from abroad, a lack of coins can become a nightmare for bus users, retailers and average citizens in Argentina.The ministry's concern started some three months ago when the Chamber of Chinese Supermarkets, which represents the hundreds of grocery stores owned by Chinese citizens in Argentina, filed a legal complaint arguing that private money transport companies were selling coins. Like most small- and medium-sized retailers, grocery stores need large amounts of coins to use as change.They usually get the coins from banks, but banks have been handing them out sparsely, because they say there is a coin shortage. Therefore, small retailers must find other providers, and this is when money transporters, who can hoard the coins they transport and replace them with bills, step into the picture in the guise of coin salesmen. Retailers pay around 100 pesos for roughly 88-95 pesos worth of coins. Experts say this business is more profitable than, for example, manufacturing fake coins.Hoarding coins is not in itself a crime, so when the chamber filed the complaint, the justice ministry intervened to find a way to fill the legal loophole. It came up with the idea of charging coin hoarders and dealers with putting national security at risk. In a subsequent raid in Buenos Aires on October 9, police seized 134 barrels full of coins from a private money transport company. After three weeks of counting, the police announced that 21 barrels contained fake coins while the rest had to a total of 4.5 million pesos (some $1.3m or \u00a3876,700).If it ended there, the story would be no more than a witty scheme to make some extra money through shady operations. However, the problem is not reduced to one company and a few stores. The central bank, which regulates bank activities, fined five banks last year for not handing out coins to clients, as is mandatory, and 10 other banks are now under investigation.And if the shortage troubles retailers, it is more disturbing for Argentineans who must use buses or want to do small shopping. According to regulation, banks are under the obligation to give up to 20 pesos worth of coins to any person who requires it (the amount was lowered last year from 100 pesos because it was impossible to meet). Banks regularly dismiss the regulations, however, and hand out as little as three pesos in coins. With bus fares ranging from 0.90 to 1.50 pesos, this is obviously not enough.The shortage is considered a national problem, but it is mainly centred in the greater Buenos Aires area, whose population of roughly 13 million people represent around 30% of the country's population. The core public transportation in this metropolitan area is a bus network of more than 200 lines owned by dozens of different companies. Unlike other cities in the country and abroad, buses cannot be used with pre-paid magnetic fare cards. Save a few exceptions, the only way to pay the bus fare is onboard with coins, which are therefore in large demand. Because all their income is in metallic, metropolitan bus companies are suspected of acting in cohorts with money transportation companies to sell coins instead of depositing them in banks, which would return them to the financial system.In a Wall Street Journal op-ed this week, an American university professor, George Selgin, offered some advice to solve the problem. Selgin believes that the Argentine government should allow private companies to issue distinct coins that people can choose or not to use. But Argentine monetary history shows that such as system is likely to fail.Until the early 1990s, coin-sized tokens were the only way to pay for underground fares and public phones, and they are still used in some video game arcades. Tokens were cumbersome to carry, as they could be used only for specific situations and were truly \"distinctive private money\", as they were not interchangeable (phone tokens could not be used in the underground and vice-versa). Another variety of counterfeit money has existed recurrently in Argentine history in the form of provincial and national government bonds used to pay workers whenever cash was scarce. During the 2001-2002 national economic crisis some 20 different bonds circulated in the country at the same time in parallel with legal money. The first system is recalled as highly unpractical for users, the second as harmful to monetary policy.While it is accused of inefficiency, the central bank says 2007 marked an all-time high in the number of coins manufactured and says that production went up an extra 12% in 2008, setting a new high in circulation. According to the central bank, there is an average of roughly 100 pesos worth of coins on the street for every Argentine citizen.Meanwhile, people must struggle to pay their bus fares and argue with shop clerks over change. Want to buy a 2.50 peso Coke? Better pay with a fiver so the attendant can give you a 2-peso bill and 0.50 in change. Paying with four pesos (two 2-peso bills) would require the shopkeeper to part with at least a 1 peso coin and a 0.50 coin \u2013 too much of a commodity.Argentina has always been a country where larger bills \u2013 50s and 100s \u2013 are far easier to come by than small change, be it coins or 5- and 10-peso bills. When pennies existed in this country during the 1990s, they were not usually accepted by shopkeepers because they were considered a nuisance. Thus, in Argentina and unlike other countries, the phrase \"Got any spare change?\" is common to most people, not only the corner beggar. The current shortage has simply made it more popular then ever.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Argentina", "Money"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: A small change shortage in Argentina leads to chaos"},{"date": "2009-02-25T10:32:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A Roman Catholic bishop who questioned the truth of the Holocaust arrived in Britain today after being asked to leave Argentina.Richard Williamson, who left Buenos Aires wearing a baseball cap and sunglasses yesterday, arrived at Heathrow airport dressed all in black and wearing a dog collar. Several police officers escorted him through a media scrum, and a photographer was manhandled by police during the jostling.The British-born bishop did not comment and was whisked away in a silver Land Rover.Williamson had been at the St Pius X seminary in Buenos Aires for five years, but last week the Argentinian government gave him 10 days to leave the country.Williamson caused outrage with his remarks, which surfaced shortly after the Vatican's recent decision to welcome him back into the Catholic church. He is reported to have claimed in a television interview last month that historical evidence suggested there \"were no gas chambers\" and that only 300,000 Jews died in Nazi concentration camps.He has since declared himself ready to think again, and in a recent interview with Spiegel magazine, the bishop reiterated that he was prepared to \"review the historical evidence\". Most historians agree around 6 million Jews were killed under Hitler's regime.\"Historical evidence is at issue, not emotions. And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" the disgraced bishop said.He added that he would test his views not by travelling to Auschwitz but by reading a book on the camp by Jean-Claude Pressac, a former Holocaust denier who revised his views after a visit.The Catholic bishops of England and Wales have already condemned Bishop Williamson's views on the Holocaust as \"totally unacceptable\" and have stressed that the lifting of his excommunication was for unrelated matters. A spokesman for the Catholic bishops conference of England and Wales said he had \"absolutely no idea\" where Bishop Williamson was going after his arrival in Britain.He said: \"He does not fall into the jurisdiction of any of the England and Wales bishops because he is not in full communion with the Catholic church.\"He will have to make his own arrangements, whether that is with a Catholic priest or with somebody else.\"From the hierarchy's perspective, he has got nothing to do with the bishops of this country.\"Williamson did have one supporter at Heathrow; Michele Renouf, a socialite turned documentary-maker, said she wanted to represent and support him in getting his views across to the public.She blamed Germany - which has a Holocaust-denial law - for causing the \"scrum of Jewish protests\" and said it was a \"disgrace\" that there could be no debate on the issue. Renouf, who came to Heathrow with her legal team, has become increasingly known in recent years for associating with those who deny the Holocaust. She supported the historian, David Irving, during his trial in Vienna for Holocaust denial. Last year, she helped put together a legal team for an Australian academic, Frederick Toben, after he was arrested at Heathrow airport.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, belongs to an ultra-traditionalist religious order that opposes recent reforms by Rome.The decision to remove the cleric from the seminary was an attempt to smooth over frayed relations with the Vatican, said a spokesman for Williamson's religious order, the Society of Saint Pius X, adding that Williamson's views in no way reflected those of the order.Williamson is believed to be at the London headquarters of the Society of Saint Pius in Wimbledon, south London, where the Land Rover that took him from Heathrow was parked outside. Two priests who answered the door refused to comment.Williamson's opinions sparked outrage among Jews and embarrassed the Vatican, which ordered the bishop to publicly recant. The Vatican, along with Williamson's order, claims to have had no prior knowledge of his beliefs about the Holocaust before lifting his excommunication.The excommunication in 1988 was lifted along with those of three other bishops ordained without Vatican permission by the renegade French archbishop, Marcel Lefebvre.Pope Benedict had made healing the breach between the Society of Saint Pius X and mainstream Catholics one of the chief aims of his papacy. The British bishop had welcomed his entry back into the church as a \"great step forward\", although he continued to denounce the Vatican as liberal.\"There is still a long way to go before the neo-modernists in Rome, conscious or unconscious, realise \u2013 if ever! \u2013 how they mistake the faith,\" Williamson said.The bishop has sought to prevent his original television interview from being broadcast on the internet, but a German court has rejected his argument.Lord Janner, the president of the Holocaust Educational Trust, said: \"It would be much better if he was not here, but as a British citizen it cannot be prevented.\"", "tags": ["Religion", "Holocaust", "UK news", "Argentina", "Catholicism", "Judaism", "Second world war"], "title": "Holocaust-denying bishop lands in UK after expulsion from Argentina"},{"date": "2009-02-15T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Question: I emailed Smile to let them know that I would be going to Argentina and Uruguay over Christmas and new year to visit my daughter who was travelling around South America. They wished me an enjoyable trip. On arrival in Buenos Aires, I was unable to withdraw pesos from a cash machine and had no way of contacting the bank because I did not take my mobile phone with me.Later in the day I emailed Smile, but received no reply. My daughter paid for my food and bought me a phone card. When I got through to Smile on the telephone, I was told that they knew I was in Argentina so there wasn't a problem and they questioned whether I was using the correct pin number. When I stated that there clearly was a problem, they said the fraud department had stopped my card. They unblocked my card and we then enjoyed the holiday until, that is, we moved on to Uruguay.I had promised to pay for a celebration meal but my card was rejected. The next day, Christmas Day, I spent nearly two hours trying to get a telephone line to England. When I eventually got through I was told to phone a different number but, when I did, a recorded message told me that the bank was closed and I should email.RM, Brentford, LondonMargaret: This is becoming a common problem. Readers alert their banks before going abroad on holiday, only to find that their credit and debit cards are still blocked when they try to use them in foreign countries. Of course, banks have to maintain their security surveillance because cards are more likely to be stolen while you are travelling than when you are at home and some parts of the world, including South America, are particularly high risk. It is indeed possible that your card might have been stolen before you reached the arrivals hall at Buenos Aires airport. But I would have thought that immediately after landing was the one occasion when Smile could have forecast that you would be using your card in a cash machine. Even so, Smile confirms that your first attempt to withdraw cash was blocked because of a \"security concern\". It is no easy matter to contact a bank in that situation. Smile says it has no record of you trying to use your card in a Uruguayan restaurant and suggests that this time there was a fault with the connection.But the bank admits it was slow in replying to your email and is sending \u00a3100 for the cost of your phone calls and to compensate for distress.Question: I signed up for internet banking with Nationwide before I began travelling for six months in South and Central America. Two months into my trip, my handbag was stolen in Quito, Ecuador. Nationwide agreed to send a replacement debit card to the British Consulate in Cartagena, Colombia, but it didn't arrive. I moved on to Panama having given up hope. I then asked Nationwide to transfer money to my NatWest account, for which I had a cash card but no funds. They don't seem to be able to understand that I can't do it myself. It costs more than $10 to phone and an email costs 25 cents, but neither approach gets me any closer to my money. Eventually Nationwide sent a replacement card to my home in Beckenham, Kent, but no one can forward it to me as I am travelling around.VT, Central AmericaMargaret: Nationwide admits it has taken an unacceptably long time to transfer money to your NatWest account but it has now done so and is offering \u00a3250 to apologise.Question: I wanted to pay \u00a31,000 into my Abbey account but the branch is some way off and I no longer have a car. The Post Office is only five minutes walk away so I tried to put the money into an account there. The Post Office then wrote saying I had not declared the source of my funds so they could not accept my money. I did not think it is right to ask this of a 77-year-old. I went back to the Post Office and asked for my money back. Six weeks later I am still waiting, despite sending two more letters.AN, Ingatestone, EssexMargaret: Banks have to ask where money has come from when you open a new account in case you are a money launderer or drug dealer that they can trick into declaring ill gotten gains.But Bank of Ireland, which runs the Post Office's savings accounts, was unfairly inflexible not to help you with information or suggestions, or to return your money promptly.The Post Office has now sent back your cheque but I urge you to reconsider as this will be a far more convenient bank for you, although remember that Post Office accounts are covered by Ireland's compensation scheme and not the UK version.Question: Teachers' Pensions wrote to say that my guaranteed minimum pension has come into force with my state pension and that my teachers' pension should have been reduced accordingly. They say it wasn't and I have wrongly received two increases to my pension - one from the Teachers' Pension scheme and again with my state pension. They now want to reduce my teacher's pension. As I am resident in New Zealand, I do not receive any cost of living linked rise with my state pension and shouldn't suffer this drop in income. CF, Hamilton, New ZealandMargaret: This really is rubbing salt into the wound. Your UK state pension is frozen because you live in New Zealand but you are being treated as though it wasn't. Your problem was that no one at Teachers' Pensions took this on board. They now have and you will not be penalised. Teachers' Pensions blames the Revenue which provided the information about your state pension, - although someone at TP should have hesitated while addressing a letter to New Zealand.Question: My mother died in March 2007 and it took me some time to deal with her affairs. In 2008 I provided Equiniti with the probate paperwork to transfer her shares to my name, but I have had no response to my requests to reissue dividend cheques which were still being sent out in my mother's name. I was told I would have to pay \u00a311 to reissue them, which I thought was outrageous, and that they would write to me about it. I have heard nothing. The shares themselves are now virtually worthless, but I would like to recover the dividends at least.NM, Etchingham, East SussexMargaret: Equiniti admits receiving, but simply overlooking, your letter asking the company to reissue the cheques it had wrongly sent out. It has now sent you dividends worth \u00a376 and rounded this up to \u00a3100 apologise for the delay.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at money.writes@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Money Writes, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Money", "Credit cards", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "Your problems: Margaret Dibben writes your wrongs"},{"date": "2009-02-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina ordered a British bishop who has questioned the truth of the Holocaust to leave the country last night or face expulsion, reigniting a controversy which has dogged the Vatican. The interior ministry said Richard Williamson, a conservative Catholic who headed a seminary near Buenos Aires, had 10 days to leave.The unexpected decision cited the bishop's Holocaust denial as well as his alleged failure to reveal \"his true activity\" in Argentina. He had apparently registered as an employee of a non-governmental group.\"The interior minister ... orders Richard Nelson Williamson to leave the country within 10 days or be expelled,\" the statement said. Jewish groups welcomed the move. Julio Schlosser, general secretary of the Jewish social welfare organisation Amia, said Williamson's views \"affects the civic harmony and the social peace that this country needs so much\".The British-born cleric has been at the centre of a storm since last month when the Pope lifted his excommunication to try to heal a rift between the Vatican and rebels in the breakaway Society of St Pius X (SSPX). The decision provoked anger because Williamson had recently repeated claims there were no Nazi gas chambers and that the number of Jews killed in the second world war was 300,000 rather than 6 million.\"I believe that the historical evidence is strongly against, is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler,\" he said.Protests by Jewish groups and the German government rattled the Vatican and imperilled a papal trip to Israel. To try to repair the damage the pope hosted Jewish leaders in Rome and said the Nazis' attempt to wipe out European Jewry was a \"crime against God\".He said he had been unaware of Williamson's views and had ordered him to recant.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, offered to reconsider his views with fresh reading about the Nazi genocide. \"And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" he said. Argentina's decision means that research is likely to take place elsewhere.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "Argentina expels Catholic bishop who questions Holocaust"},{"date": "2009-01-08T17:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine justice ministry is currently concerned about national safety, and its preoccupation has nothing to do with terrorism, violent crime or drug trafficking. Instead, it is worried about a shortage of coins and the growing black market where coins are purchased. As strange as this may sound from abroad, a lack of coins can become a nightmare for bus users, retailers and average citizens in Argentina.The ministry's concern started some three months ago when the Chamber of Chinese Supermarkets, which represents the hundreds of grocery stores owned by Chinese citizens in Argentina, filed a legal complaint arguing that private money transport companies were selling coins. Like most small- and medium-sized retailers, grocery stores need large amounts of coins to use as change.They usually get the coins from banks, but banks have been handing them out sparsely, because they say there is a coin shortage. Therefore, small retailers must find other providers, and this is when money transporters, who can hoard the coins they transport and replace them with bills, step into the picture in the guise of coin salesmen. Retailers pay around 100 pesos for roughly 88-95 pesos worth of coins. Experts say this business is more profitable than, for example, manufacturing fake coins.Hoarding coins is not in itself a crime, so when the chamber filed the complaint, the justice ministry intervened to find a way to fill the legal loophole. It came up with the idea of charging coin hoarders and dealers with putting national security at risk. In a subsequent raid in Buenos Aires on October 9, police seized 134 barrels full of coins from a private money transport company. After three weeks of counting, the police announced that 21 barrels contained fake coins while the rest had to a total of 4.5 million pesos (some $1.3m or \u00a3876,700).If it ended there, the story would be no more than a witty scheme to make some extra money through shady operations. However, the problem is not reduced to one company and a few stores. The central bank, which regulates bank activities, fined five banks last year for not handing out coins to clients, as is mandatory, and 10 other banks are now under investigation.And if the shortage troubles retailers, it is more disturbing for Argentineans who must use buses or want to do small shopping. According to regulation, banks are under the obligation to give up to 20 pesos worth of coins to any person who requires it (the amount was lowered last year from 100 pesos because it was impossible to meet). Banks regularly dismiss the regulations, however, and hand out as little as three pesos in coins. With bus fares ranging from 0.90 to 1.50 pesos, this is obviously not enough.The shortage is considered a national problem, but it is mainly centred in the greater Buenos Aires area, whose population of roughly 13 million people represent around 30% of the country's population. The core public transportation in this metropolitan area is a bus network of more than 200 lines owned by dozens of different companies. Unlike other cities in the country and abroad, buses cannot be used with pre-paid magnetic fare cards. Save a few exceptions, the only way to pay the bus fare is onboard with coins, which are therefore in large demand. Because all their income is in metallic, metropolitan bus companies are suspected of acting in cohorts with money transportation companies to sell coins instead of depositing them in banks, which would return them to the financial system.In a Wall Street Journal op-ed this week, an American university professor, George Selgin, offered some advice to solve the problem. Selgin believes that the Argentine government should allow private companies to issue distinct coins that people can choose or not to use. But Argentine monetary history shows that such as system is likely to fail.Until the early 1990s, coin-sized tokens were the only way to pay for underground fares and public phones, and they are still used in some video game arcades. Tokens were cumbersome to carry, as they could be used only for specific situations and were truly \"distinctive private money\", as they were not interchangeable (phone tokens could not be used in the underground and vice-versa). Another variety of counterfeit money has existed recurrently in Argentine history in the form of provincial and national government bonds used to pay workers whenever cash was scarce. During the 2001-2002 national economic crisis some 20 different bonds circulated in the country at the same time in parallel with legal money. The first system is recalled as highly unpractical for users, the second as harmful to monetary policy.While it is accused of inefficiency, the central bank says 2007 marked an all-time high in the number of coins manufactured and says that production went up an extra 12% in 2008, setting a new high in circulation. According to the central bank, there is an average of roughly 100 pesos worth of coins on the street for every Argentine citizen.Meanwhile, people must struggle to pay their bus fares and argue with shop clerks over change. Want to buy a 2.50 peso Coke? Better pay with a fiver so the attendant can give you a 2-peso bill and 0.50 in change. Paying with four pesos (two 2-peso bills) would require the shopkeeper to part with at least a 1 peso coin and a 0.50 coin \u2013 too much of a commodity.Argentina has always been a country where larger bills \u2013 50s and 100s \u2013 are far easier to come by than small change, be it coins or 5- and 10-peso bills. When pennies existed in this country during the 1990s, they were not usually accepted by shopkeepers because they were considered a nuisance. Thus, in Argentina and unlike other countries, the phrase \"Got any spare change?\" is common to most people, not only the corner beggar. The current shortage has simply made it more popular then ever.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Argentina", "Money"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: A small change shortage in Argentina leads to chaos"},{"date": "2009-02-25T10:32:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A Roman Catholic bishop who questioned the truth of the Holocaust arrived in Britain today after being asked to leave Argentina.Richard Williamson, who left Buenos Aires wearing a baseball cap and sunglasses yesterday, arrived at Heathrow airport dressed all in black and wearing a dog collar. Several police officers escorted him through a media scrum, and a photographer was manhandled by police during the jostling.The British-born bishop did not comment and was whisked away in a silver Land Rover.Williamson had been at the St Pius X seminary in Buenos Aires for five years, but last week the Argentinian government gave him 10 days to leave the country.Williamson caused outrage with his remarks, which surfaced shortly after the Vatican's recent decision to welcome him back into the Catholic church. He is reported to have claimed in a television interview last month that historical evidence suggested there \"were no gas chambers\" and that only 300,000 Jews died in Nazi concentration camps.He has since declared himself ready to think again, and in a recent interview with Spiegel magazine, the bishop reiterated that he was prepared to \"review the historical evidence\". Most historians agree around 6 million Jews were killed under Hitler's regime.\"Historical evidence is at issue, not emotions. And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" the disgraced bishop said.He added that he would test his views not by travelling to Auschwitz but by reading a book on the camp by Jean-Claude Pressac, a former Holocaust denier who revised his views after a visit.The Catholic bishops of England and Wales have already condemned Bishop Williamson's views on the Holocaust as \"totally unacceptable\" and have stressed that the lifting of his excommunication was for unrelated matters. A spokesman for the Catholic bishops conference of England and Wales said he had \"absolutely no idea\" where Bishop Williamson was going after his arrival in Britain.He said: \"He does not fall into the jurisdiction of any of the England and Wales bishops because he is not in full communion with the Catholic church.\"He will have to make his own arrangements, whether that is with a Catholic priest or with somebody else.\"From the hierarchy's perspective, he has got nothing to do with the bishops of this country.\"Williamson did have one supporter at Heathrow; Michele Renouf, a socialite turned documentary-maker, said she wanted to represent and support him in getting his views across to the public.She blamed Germany - which has a Holocaust-denial law - for causing the \"scrum of Jewish protests\" and said it was a \"disgrace\" that there could be no debate on the issue. Renouf, who came to Heathrow with her legal team, has become increasingly known in recent years for associating with those who deny the Holocaust. She supported the historian, David Irving, during his trial in Vienna for Holocaust denial. Last year, she helped put together a legal team for an Australian academic, Frederick Toben, after he was arrested at Heathrow airport.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, belongs to an ultra-traditionalist religious order that opposes recent reforms by Rome.The decision to remove the cleric from the seminary was an attempt to smooth over frayed relations with the Vatican, said a spokesman for Williamson's religious order, the Society of Saint Pius X, adding that Williamson's views in no way reflected those of the order.Williamson is believed to be at the London headquarters of the Society of Saint Pius in Wimbledon, south London, where the Land Rover that took him from Heathrow was parked outside. Two priests who answered the door refused to comment.Williamson's opinions sparked outrage among Jews and embarrassed the Vatican, which ordered the bishop to publicly recant. The Vatican, along with Williamson's order, claims to have had no prior knowledge of his beliefs about the Holocaust before lifting his excommunication.The excommunication in 1988 was lifted along with those of three other bishops ordained without Vatican permission by the renegade French archbishop, Marcel Lefebvre.Pope Benedict had made healing the breach between the Society of Saint Pius X and mainstream Catholics one of the chief aims of his papacy. The British bishop had welcomed his entry back into the church as a \"great step forward\", although he continued to denounce the Vatican as liberal.\"There is still a long way to go before the neo-modernists in Rome, conscious or unconscious, realise \u2013 if ever! \u2013 how they mistake the faith,\" Williamson said.The bishop has sought to prevent his original television interview from being broadcast on the internet, but a German court has rejected his argument.Lord Janner, the president of the Holocaust Educational Trust, said: \"It would be much better if he was not here, but as a British citizen it cannot be prevented.\"", "tags": ["Religion", "Holocaust", "UK news", "Argentina", "Catholicism", "Judaism", "Second world war"], "title": "Holocaust-denying bishop lands in UK after expulsion from Argentina"},{"date": "2009-02-15T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Question: I emailed Smile to let them know that I would be going to Argentina and Uruguay over Christmas and new year to visit my daughter who was travelling around South America. They wished me an enjoyable trip. On arrival in Buenos Aires, I was unable to withdraw pesos from a cash machine and had no way of contacting the bank because I did not take my mobile phone with me.Later in the day I emailed Smile, but received no reply. My daughter paid for my food and bought me a phone card. When I got through to Smile on the telephone, I was told that they knew I was in Argentina so there wasn't a problem and they questioned whether I was using the correct pin number. When I stated that there clearly was a problem, they said the fraud department had stopped my card. They unblocked my card and we then enjoyed the holiday until, that is, we moved on to Uruguay.I had promised to pay for a celebration meal but my card was rejected. The next day, Christmas Day, I spent nearly two hours trying to get a telephone line to England. When I eventually got through I was told to phone a different number but, when I did, a recorded message told me that the bank was closed and I should email.RM, Brentford, LondonMargaret: This is becoming a common problem. Readers alert their banks before going abroad on holiday, only to find that their credit and debit cards are still blocked when they try to use them in foreign countries. Of course, banks have to maintain their security surveillance because cards are more likely to be stolen while you are travelling than when you are at home and some parts of the world, including South America, are particularly high risk. It is indeed possible that your card might have been stolen before you reached the arrivals hall at Buenos Aires airport. But I would have thought that immediately after landing was the one occasion when Smile could have forecast that you would be using your card in a cash machine. Even so, Smile confirms that your first attempt to withdraw cash was blocked because of a \"security concern\". It is no easy matter to contact a bank in that situation. Smile says it has no record of you trying to use your card in a Uruguayan restaurant and suggests that this time there was a fault with the connection.But the bank admits it was slow in replying to your email and is sending \u00a3100 for the cost of your phone calls and to compensate for distress.Question: I signed up for internet banking with Nationwide before I began travelling for six months in South and Central America. Two months into my trip, my handbag was stolen in Quito, Ecuador. Nationwide agreed to send a replacement debit card to the British Consulate in Cartagena, Colombia, but it didn't arrive. I moved on to Panama having given up hope. I then asked Nationwide to transfer money to my NatWest account, for which I had a cash card but no funds. They don't seem to be able to understand that I can't do it myself. It costs more than $10 to phone and an email costs 25 cents, but neither approach gets me any closer to my money. Eventually Nationwide sent a replacement card to my home in Beckenham, Kent, but no one can forward it to me as I am travelling around.VT, Central AmericaMargaret: Nationwide admits it has taken an unacceptably long time to transfer money to your NatWest account but it has now done so and is offering \u00a3250 to apologise.Question: I wanted to pay \u00a31,000 into my Abbey account but the branch is some way off and I no longer have a car. The Post Office is only five minutes walk away so I tried to put the money into an account there. The Post Office then wrote saying I had not declared the source of my funds so they could not accept my money. I did not think it is right to ask this of a 77-year-old. I went back to the Post Office and asked for my money back. Six weeks later I am still waiting, despite sending two more letters.AN, Ingatestone, EssexMargaret: Banks have to ask where money has come from when you open a new account in case you are a money launderer or drug dealer that they can trick into declaring ill gotten gains.But Bank of Ireland, which runs the Post Office's savings accounts, was unfairly inflexible not to help you with information or suggestions, or to return your money promptly.The Post Office has now sent back your cheque but I urge you to reconsider as this will be a far more convenient bank for you, although remember that Post Office accounts are covered by Ireland's compensation scheme and not the UK version.Question: Teachers' Pensions wrote to say that my guaranteed minimum pension has come into force with my state pension and that my teachers' pension should have been reduced accordingly. They say it wasn't and I have wrongly received two increases to my pension - one from the Teachers' Pension scheme and again with my state pension. They now want to reduce my teacher's pension. As I am resident in New Zealand, I do not receive any cost of living linked rise with my state pension and shouldn't suffer this drop in income. CF, Hamilton, New ZealandMargaret: This really is rubbing salt into the wound. Your UK state pension is frozen because you live in New Zealand but you are being treated as though it wasn't. Your problem was that no one at Teachers' Pensions took this on board. They now have and you will not be penalised. Teachers' Pensions blames the Revenue which provided the information about your state pension, - although someone at TP should have hesitated while addressing a letter to New Zealand.Question: My mother died in March 2007 and it took me some time to deal with her affairs. In 2008 I provided Equiniti with the probate paperwork to transfer her shares to my name, but I have had no response to my requests to reissue dividend cheques which were still being sent out in my mother's name. I was told I would have to pay \u00a311 to reissue them, which I thought was outrageous, and that they would write to me about it. I have heard nothing. The shares themselves are now virtually worthless, but I would like to recover the dividends at least.NM, Etchingham, East SussexMargaret: Equiniti admits receiving, but simply overlooking, your letter asking the company to reissue the cheques it had wrongly sent out. It has now sent you dividends worth \u00a376 and rounded this up to \u00a3100 apologise for the delay.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at money.writes@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Money Writes, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Money", "Credit cards", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "Your problems: Margaret Dibben writes your wrongs"},{"date": "2009-02-12T22:00:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the largest penguin colonies in the world is under threat because the birds are being forced to swim further to find food.Magellanic penguins living in the Punta Tombo colony on the coast of Argentina are feeding 25 miles further from their nesting sites than they did only a decade ago, according to scientists who attached satellite tags to the birds.The extra distance spent searching for food during the breeding season takes its toll on the penguins and reduces their chances of having young, said Dr Dee \u00adBoersma at the University of Washington.\"That distance might not sound like much, but they also have to swim another 25 miles back, and they are swimming that extra 50 miles while their mates are back at the breeding grounds, sitting on a nest and starving,\" she added.The colony has already declined by a fifth in the past 22 years, and now numbers 200,000 breeding pairs of penguins. Of the 17 species of penguins, 12 are experiencing rapid population declines.Boersma has studied penguin colonies for the past 25 years and tracks their movements by attaching satellite tags to the animals' backs. While the penguins are incubating an egg, they can swim 270 miles looking for food and be at sea for two to three weeks.The birds' changing behaviour appears to be driven by changes in the environment, including overfishing, which is reducing local stocks of anchovies, and the return of large predators such as foxes and pumas that have previously been controlled by rangers.\"Penguins are having trouble with food on their wintering grounds and if that happens they're not going to come back to their breeding grounds,\" said Boersma. \"If we continue to fish down the food chain and take smaller and smaller fish like anchovies, there won't be anything left for penguins.\"Magellanic penguins nest in burrows and at Punta Tombo they are frequently flooded by rainstorms that can kill small chicks. Analysis of the penguins' movements showed many are moving to colonies up to 250 miles farther north.", "tags": ["Conservation", "Science", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Far-off food puts vast Argentina penguin colony under threat"},{"date": "2009-02-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina ordered a British bishop who has questioned the truth of the Holocaust to leave the country last night or face expulsion, reigniting a controversy which has dogged the Vatican. The interior ministry said Richard Williamson, a conservative Catholic who headed a seminary near Buenos Aires, had 10 days to leave.The unexpected decision cited the bishop's Holocaust denial as well as his alleged failure to reveal \"his true activity\" in Argentina. He had apparently registered as an employee of a non-governmental group.\"The interior minister ... orders Richard Nelson Williamson to leave the country within 10 days or be expelled,\" the statement said. Jewish groups welcomed the move. Julio Schlosser, general secretary of the Jewish social welfare organisation Amia, said Williamson's views \"affects the civic harmony and the social peace that this country needs so much\".The British-born cleric has been at the centre of a storm since last month when the Pope lifted his excommunication to try to heal a rift between the Vatican and rebels in the breakaway Society of St Pius X (SSPX). The decision provoked anger because Williamson had recently repeated claims there were no Nazi gas chambers and that the number of Jews killed in the second world war was 300,000 rather than 6 million.\"I believe that the historical evidence is strongly against, is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler,\" he said.Protests by Jewish groups and the German government rattled the Vatican and imperilled a papal trip to Israel. To try to repair the damage the pope hosted Jewish leaders in Rome and said the Nazis' attempt to wipe out European Jewry was a \"crime against God\".He said he had been unaware of Williamson's views and had ordered him to recant.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, offered to reconsider his views with fresh reading about the Nazi genocide. \"And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" he said. Argentina's decision means that research is likely to take place elsewhere.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "Argentina expels Catholic bishop who questions Holocaust"},{"date": "2009-01-08T17:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine justice ministry is currently concerned about national safety, and its preoccupation has nothing to do with terrorism, violent crime or drug trafficking. Instead, it is worried about a shortage of coins and the growing black market where coins are purchased. As strange as this may sound from abroad, a lack of coins can become a nightmare for bus users, retailers and average citizens in Argentina.The ministry's concern started some three months ago when the Chamber of Chinese Supermarkets, which represents the hundreds of grocery stores owned by Chinese citizens in Argentina, filed a legal complaint arguing that private money transport companies were selling coins. Like most small- and medium-sized retailers, grocery stores need large amounts of coins to use as change.They usually get the coins from banks, but banks have been handing them out sparsely, because they say there is a coin shortage. Therefore, small retailers must find other providers, and this is when money transporters, who can hoard the coins they transport and replace them with bills, step into the picture in the guise of coin salesmen. Retailers pay around 100 pesos for roughly 88-95 pesos worth of coins. Experts say this business is more profitable than, for example, manufacturing fake coins.Hoarding coins is not in itself a crime, so when the chamber filed the complaint, the justice ministry intervened to find a way to fill the legal loophole. It came up with the idea of charging coin hoarders and dealers with putting national security at risk. In a subsequent raid in Buenos Aires on October 9, police seized 134 barrels full of coins from a private money transport company. After three weeks of counting, the police announced that 21 barrels contained fake coins while the rest had to a total of 4.5 million pesos (some $1.3m or \u00a3876,700).If it ended there, the story would be no more than a witty scheme to make some extra money through shady operations. However, the problem is not reduced to one company and a few stores. The central bank, which regulates bank activities, fined five banks last year for not handing out coins to clients, as is mandatory, and 10 other banks are now under investigation.And if the shortage troubles retailers, it is more disturbing for Argentineans who must use buses or want to do small shopping. According to regulation, banks are under the obligation to give up to 20 pesos worth of coins to any person who requires it (the amount was lowered last year from 100 pesos because it was impossible to meet). Banks regularly dismiss the regulations, however, and hand out as little as three pesos in coins. With bus fares ranging from 0.90 to 1.50 pesos, this is obviously not enough.The shortage is considered a national problem, but it is mainly centred in the greater Buenos Aires area, whose population of roughly 13 million people represent around 30% of the country's population. The core public transportation in this metropolitan area is a bus network of more than 200 lines owned by dozens of different companies. Unlike other cities in the country and abroad, buses cannot be used with pre-paid magnetic fare cards. Save a few exceptions, the only way to pay the bus fare is onboard with coins, which are therefore in large demand. Because all their income is in metallic, metropolitan bus companies are suspected of acting in cohorts with money transportation companies to sell coins instead of depositing them in banks, which would return them to the financial system.In a Wall Street Journal op-ed this week, an American university professor, George Selgin, offered some advice to solve the problem. Selgin believes that the Argentine government should allow private companies to issue distinct coins that people can choose or not to use. But Argentine monetary history shows that such as system is likely to fail.Until the early 1990s, coin-sized tokens were the only way to pay for underground fares and public phones, and they are still used in some video game arcades. Tokens were cumbersome to carry, as they could be used only for specific situations and were truly \"distinctive private money\", as they were not interchangeable (phone tokens could not be used in the underground and vice-versa). Another variety of counterfeit money has existed recurrently in Argentine history in the form of provincial and national government bonds used to pay workers whenever cash was scarce. During the 2001-2002 national economic crisis some 20 different bonds circulated in the country at the same time in parallel with legal money. The first system is recalled as highly unpractical for users, the second as harmful to monetary policy.While it is accused of inefficiency, the central bank says 2007 marked an all-time high in the number of coins manufactured and says that production went up an extra 12% in 2008, setting a new high in circulation. According to the central bank, there is an average of roughly 100 pesos worth of coins on the street for every Argentine citizen.Meanwhile, people must struggle to pay their bus fares and argue with shop clerks over change. Want to buy a 2.50 peso Coke? Better pay with a fiver so the attendant can give you a 2-peso bill and 0.50 in change. Paying with four pesos (two 2-peso bills) would require the shopkeeper to part with at least a 1 peso coin and a 0.50 coin \u2013 too much of a commodity.Argentina has always been a country where larger bills \u2013 50s and 100s \u2013 are far easier to come by than small change, be it coins or 5- and 10-peso bills. When pennies existed in this country during the 1990s, they were not usually accepted by shopkeepers because they were considered a nuisance. Thus, in Argentina and unlike other countries, the phrase \"Got any spare change?\" is common to most people, not only the corner beggar. The current shortage has simply made it more popular then ever.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Argentina", "Money"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: A small change shortage in Argentina leads to chaos"},{"date": "2009-02-25T10:32:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A Roman Catholic bishop who questioned the truth of the Holocaust arrived in Britain today after being asked to leave Argentina.Richard Williamson, who left Buenos Aires wearing a baseball cap and sunglasses yesterday, arrived at Heathrow airport dressed all in black and wearing a dog collar. Several police officers escorted him through a media scrum, and a photographer was manhandled by police during the jostling.The British-born bishop did not comment and was whisked away in a silver Land Rover.Williamson had been at the St Pius X seminary in Buenos Aires for five years, but last week the Argentinian government gave him 10 days to leave the country.Williamson caused outrage with his remarks, which surfaced shortly after the Vatican's recent decision to welcome him back into the Catholic church. He is reported to have claimed in a television interview last month that historical evidence suggested there \"were no gas chambers\" and that only 300,000 Jews died in Nazi concentration camps.He has since declared himself ready to think again, and in a recent interview with Spiegel magazine, the bishop reiterated that he was prepared to \"review the historical evidence\". Most historians agree around 6 million Jews were killed under Hitler's regime.\"Historical evidence is at issue, not emotions. And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" the disgraced bishop said.He added that he would test his views not by travelling to Auschwitz but by reading a book on the camp by Jean-Claude Pressac, a former Holocaust denier who revised his views after a visit.The Catholic bishops of England and Wales have already condemned Bishop Williamson's views on the Holocaust as \"totally unacceptable\" and have stressed that the lifting of his excommunication was for unrelated matters. A spokesman for the Catholic bishops conference of England and Wales said he had \"absolutely no idea\" where Bishop Williamson was going after his arrival in Britain.He said: \"He does not fall into the jurisdiction of any of the England and Wales bishops because he is not in full communion with the Catholic church.\"He will have to make his own arrangements, whether that is with a Catholic priest or with somebody else.\"From the hierarchy's perspective, he has got nothing to do with the bishops of this country.\"Williamson did have one supporter at Heathrow; Michele Renouf, a socialite turned documentary-maker, said she wanted to represent and support him in getting his views across to the public.She blamed Germany - which has a Holocaust-denial law - for causing the \"scrum of Jewish protests\" and said it was a \"disgrace\" that there could be no debate on the issue. Renouf, who came to Heathrow with her legal team, has become increasingly known in recent years for associating with those who deny the Holocaust. She supported the historian, David Irving, during his trial in Vienna for Holocaust denial. Last year, she helped put together a legal team for an Australian academic, Frederick Toben, after he was arrested at Heathrow airport.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, belongs to an ultra-traditionalist religious order that opposes recent reforms by Rome.The decision to remove the cleric from the seminary was an attempt to smooth over frayed relations with the Vatican, said a spokesman for Williamson's religious order, the Society of Saint Pius X, adding that Williamson's views in no way reflected those of the order.Williamson is believed to be at the London headquarters of the Society of Saint Pius in Wimbledon, south London, where the Land Rover that took him from Heathrow was parked outside. Two priests who answered the door refused to comment.Williamson's opinions sparked outrage among Jews and embarrassed the Vatican, which ordered the bishop to publicly recant. The Vatican, along with Williamson's order, claims to have had no prior knowledge of his beliefs about the Holocaust before lifting his excommunication.The excommunication in 1988 was lifted along with those of three other bishops ordained without Vatican permission by the renegade French archbishop, Marcel Lefebvre.Pope Benedict had made healing the breach between the Society of Saint Pius X and mainstream Catholics one of the chief aims of his papacy. The British bishop had welcomed his entry back into the church as a \"great step forward\", although he continued to denounce the Vatican as liberal.\"There is still a long way to go before the neo-modernists in Rome, conscious or unconscious, realise \u2013 if ever! \u2013 how they mistake the faith,\" Williamson said.The bishop has sought to prevent his original television interview from being broadcast on the internet, but a German court has rejected his argument.Lord Janner, the president of the Holocaust Educational Trust, said: \"It would be much better if he was not here, but as a British citizen it cannot be prevented.\"", "tags": ["Religion", "Holocaust", "UK news", "Argentina", "Catholicism", "Judaism", "Second world war"], "title": "Holocaust-denying bishop lands in UK after expulsion from Argentina"},{"date": "2009-02-15T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Question: I emailed Smile to let them know that I would be going to Argentina and Uruguay over Christmas and new year to visit my daughter who was travelling around South America. They wished me an enjoyable trip. On arrival in Buenos Aires, I was unable to withdraw pesos from a cash machine and had no way of contacting the bank because I did not take my mobile phone with me.Later in the day I emailed Smile, but received no reply. My daughter paid for my food and bought me a phone card. When I got through to Smile on the telephone, I was told that they knew I was in Argentina so there wasn't a problem and they questioned whether I was using the correct pin number. When I stated that there clearly was a problem, they said the fraud department had stopped my card. They unblocked my card and we then enjoyed the holiday until, that is, we moved on to Uruguay.I had promised to pay for a celebration meal but my card was rejected. The next day, Christmas Day, I spent nearly two hours trying to get a telephone line to England. When I eventually got through I was told to phone a different number but, when I did, a recorded message told me that the bank was closed and I should email.RM, Brentford, LondonMargaret: This is becoming a common problem. Readers alert their banks before going abroad on holiday, only to find that their credit and debit cards are still blocked when they try to use them in foreign countries. Of course, banks have to maintain their security surveillance because cards are more likely to be stolen while you are travelling than when you are at home and some parts of the world, including South America, are particularly high risk. It is indeed possible that your card might have been stolen before you reached the arrivals hall at Buenos Aires airport. But I would have thought that immediately after landing was the one occasion when Smile could have forecast that you would be using your card in a cash machine. Even so, Smile confirms that your first attempt to withdraw cash was blocked because of a \"security concern\". It is no easy matter to contact a bank in that situation. Smile says it has no record of you trying to use your card in a Uruguayan restaurant and suggests that this time there was a fault with the connection.But the bank admits it was slow in replying to your email and is sending \u00a3100 for the cost of your phone calls and to compensate for distress.Question: I signed up for internet banking with Nationwide before I began travelling for six months in South and Central America. Two months into my trip, my handbag was stolen in Quito, Ecuador. Nationwide agreed to send a replacement debit card to the British Consulate in Cartagena, Colombia, but it didn't arrive. I moved on to Panama having given up hope. I then asked Nationwide to transfer money to my NatWest account, for which I had a cash card but no funds. They don't seem to be able to understand that I can't do it myself. It costs more than $10 to phone and an email costs 25 cents, but neither approach gets me any closer to my money. Eventually Nationwide sent a replacement card to my home in Beckenham, Kent, but no one can forward it to me as I am travelling around.VT, Central AmericaMargaret: Nationwide admits it has taken an unacceptably long time to transfer money to your NatWest account but it has now done so and is offering \u00a3250 to apologise.Question: I wanted to pay \u00a31,000 into my Abbey account but the branch is some way off and I no longer have a car. The Post Office is only five minutes walk away so I tried to put the money into an account there. The Post Office then wrote saying I had not declared the source of my funds so they could not accept my money. I did not think it is right to ask this of a 77-year-old. I went back to the Post Office and asked for my money back. Six weeks later I am still waiting, despite sending two more letters.AN, Ingatestone, EssexMargaret: Banks have to ask where money has come from when you open a new account in case you are a money launderer or drug dealer that they can trick into declaring ill gotten gains.But Bank of Ireland, which runs the Post Office's savings accounts, was unfairly inflexible not to help you with information or suggestions, or to return your money promptly.The Post Office has now sent back your cheque but I urge you to reconsider as this will be a far more convenient bank for you, although remember that Post Office accounts are covered by Ireland's compensation scheme and not the UK version.Question: Teachers' Pensions wrote to say that my guaranteed minimum pension has come into force with my state pension and that my teachers' pension should have been reduced accordingly. They say it wasn't and I have wrongly received two increases to my pension - one from the Teachers' Pension scheme and again with my state pension. They now want to reduce my teacher's pension. As I am resident in New Zealand, I do not receive any cost of living linked rise with my state pension and shouldn't suffer this drop in income. CF, Hamilton, New ZealandMargaret: This really is rubbing salt into the wound. Your UK state pension is frozen because you live in New Zealand but you are being treated as though it wasn't. Your problem was that no one at Teachers' Pensions took this on board. They now have and you will not be penalised. Teachers' Pensions blames the Revenue which provided the information about your state pension, - although someone at TP should have hesitated while addressing a letter to New Zealand.Question: My mother died in March 2007 and it took me some time to deal with her affairs. In 2008 I provided Equiniti with the probate paperwork to transfer her shares to my name, but I have had no response to my requests to reissue dividend cheques which were still being sent out in my mother's name. I was told I would have to pay \u00a311 to reissue them, which I thought was outrageous, and that they would write to me about it. I have heard nothing. The shares themselves are now virtually worthless, but I would like to recover the dividends at least.NM, Etchingham, East SussexMargaret: Equiniti admits receiving, but simply overlooking, your letter asking the company to reissue the cheques it had wrongly sent out. It has now sent you dividends worth \u00a376 and rounded this up to \u00a3100 apologise for the delay.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at money.writes@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Money Writes, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Money", "Credit cards", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "Your problems: Margaret Dibben writes your wrongs"},{"date": "2009-02-12T22:00:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the largest penguin colonies in the world is under threat because the birds are being forced to swim further to find food.Magellanic penguins living in the Punta Tombo colony on the coast of Argentina are feeding 25 miles further from their nesting sites than they did only a decade ago, according to scientists who attached satellite tags to the birds.The extra distance spent searching for food during the breeding season takes its toll on the penguins and reduces their chances of having young, said Dr Dee \u00adBoersma at the University of Washington.\"That distance might not sound like much, but they also have to swim another 25 miles back, and they are swimming that extra 50 miles while their mates are back at the breeding grounds, sitting on a nest and starving,\" she added.The colony has already declined by a fifth in the past 22 years, and now numbers 200,000 breeding pairs of penguins. Of the 17 species of penguins, 12 are experiencing rapid population declines.Boersma has studied penguin colonies for the past 25 years and tracks their movements by attaching satellite tags to the animals' backs. While the penguins are incubating an egg, they can swim 270 miles looking for food and be at sea for two to three weeks.The birds' changing behaviour appears to be driven by changes in the environment, including overfishing, which is reducing local stocks of anchovies, and the return of large predators such as foxes and pumas that have previously been controlled by rangers.\"Penguins are having trouble with food on their wintering grounds and if that happens they're not going to come back to their breeding grounds,\" said Boersma. \"If we continue to fish down the food chain and take smaller and smaller fish like anchovies, there won't be anything left for penguins.\"Magellanic penguins nest in burrows and at Punta Tombo they are frequently flooded by rainstorms that can kill small chicks. Analysis of the penguins' movements showed many are moving to colonies up to 250 miles farther north.", "tags": ["Conservation", "Science", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Far-off food puts vast Argentina penguin colony under threat"},{"date": "2009-03-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "When I ask Herv\u00e9 Fabre his opinion of malbec before moving to Argentina, his response is very French: he shrugs, his mouth droops and he goes \"Puhhh!\" Can he be more precise? \"Horrible. Dure. Rustique. It didn't even cross my mind to make wine with it. Then I tried one here and was seduced by the originality and quality.\" It's 17 years since Fabre and his wife, Diane, set up the Fabre Montmayou winery in Luj\u00e1n de Cuyo, in which time Argentina has become justifiably famous for its malbec (so different from its Cahors namesake). But it's no longer enough to talk in general terms about the country and the grape, a point the Catena family made with \"malbec-malbec\", a blend of malbecs from two sites.Argentina has two buzz phrases right now: \"Uco Valley\" and '\"high-altitude vineyards\", and often they are said in the same breath. The Uco Valley in Mendoza is a rift valley formed not glacially but by faulting, a chunk of land that has dropped. In some places (it's crucial to distinguish between districts and producers because the Uco's big and not all marvellous) it produces exhilaratingly vivid, intense malbec. (The transformation is akin to that of sauvignon blanc in Marlborough, New Zealand.) Broadly speaking, altitude has an impact because daytime temperature drops 1C with every 100m increase in height, nights are cooler and UV levels rise as you go higher, which intensifies carotenoids. \"Grapes grow thicker skins, and having more layers of cells means more aromatics and tannins,\" says Catena's Alejandro Sejanovich.Wineries have identified the diverse characteristics of malbec in various districts. At the Do\u00f1a Paula winery they define these as: strawberry and red fruit in Lunlunta and Drummond; black cherry and spice in Agrelo; plums, spice and dried herbs in Ugarteche; black fruit in Gualtallary... See how a malbec-malbec blend might work? I favour the strong, violet notes in malbec from Vistalba and Agrelo, particularly if combined with the vibrancy of wine from an Uco district. Four favourites: Do\u00f1a Paula Estate Malbec 2008 (\u00a39.99, or \u00a37.99 by the case, Oddbins, in store next month; 14% abv), which is made with French oak, tremendously perfumed and fresh, with a sensational smell and the purity of a coulis. Do\u00f1a Paula Malbec Seleccion de Bodega 2005 (\u00a331.65, Cavas de Gaucho; 14.5%) has a broad, sweeping cloud of perfume, a suggestion of prunes, panoply of spice, the comfortableness of an antique sideboard. Fabre Montmayou Gran Reserva Malbec 2007 (\u00a39.99, Laith-waites; 14.5%) is deep, dark as black ink and reeks of violets. And Pulenta Estate Malbec 2005 (\u00a313.65, Berry Bros; 13.5%) is a beauty, structured like an elegant chateau, bold, with a floral scent and refreshing acidity. victoriaxmoore@gmail.comInycon Fiano 2007, Sicily (\u00a34.39, down from \u00a35.99, Waitrose; 13% abv) Good-value marzipan- and pear-tinged white to have with seafood.", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Victoria Moore on why Argentina is giving malbec a good name"},{"date": "2009-02-20T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina ordered a British bishop who has questioned the truth of the Holocaust to leave the country last night or face expulsion, reigniting a controversy which has dogged the Vatican. The interior ministry said Richard Williamson, a conservative Catholic who headed a seminary near Buenos Aires, had 10 days to leave.The unexpected decision cited the bishop's Holocaust denial as well as his alleged failure to reveal \"his true activity\" in Argentina. He had apparently registered as an employee of a non-governmental group.\"The interior minister ... orders Richard Nelson Williamson to leave the country within 10 days or be expelled,\" the statement said. Jewish groups welcomed the move. Julio Schlosser, general secretary of the Jewish social welfare organisation Amia, said Williamson's views \"affects the civic harmony and the social peace that this country needs so much\".The British-born cleric has been at the centre of a storm since last month when the Pope lifted his excommunication to try to heal a rift between the Vatican and rebels in the breakaway Society of St Pius X (SSPX). The decision provoked anger because Williamson had recently repeated claims there were no Nazi gas chambers and that the number of Jews killed in the second world war was 300,000 rather than 6 million.\"I believe that the historical evidence is strongly against, is hugely against 6 million Jews having been deliberately gassed in gas chambers as a deliberate policy of Adolf Hitler,\" he said.Protests by Jewish groups and the German government rattled the Vatican and imperilled a papal trip to Israel. To try to repair the damage the pope hosted Jewish leaders in Rome and said the Nazis' attempt to wipe out European Jewry was a \"crime against God\".He said he had been unaware of Williamson's views and had ordered him to recant.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, offered to reconsider his views with fresh reading about the Nazi genocide. \"And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" he said. Argentina's decision means that research is likely to take place elsewhere.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Catholicism", "Religion", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "Argentina expels Catholic bishop who questions Holocaust"},{"date": "2009-01-08T17:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine justice ministry is currently concerned about national safety, and its preoccupation has nothing to do with terrorism, violent crime or drug trafficking. Instead, it is worried about a shortage of coins and the growing black market where coins are purchased. As strange as this may sound from abroad, a lack of coins can become a nightmare for bus users, retailers and average citizens in Argentina.The ministry's concern started some three months ago when the Chamber of Chinese Supermarkets, which represents the hundreds of grocery stores owned by Chinese citizens in Argentina, filed a legal complaint arguing that private money transport companies were selling coins. Like most small- and medium-sized retailers, grocery stores need large amounts of coins to use as change.They usually get the coins from banks, but banks have been handing them out sparsely, because they say there is a coin shortage. Therefore, small retailers must find other providers, and this is when money transporters, who can hoard the coins they transport and replace them with bills, step into the picture in the guise of coin salesmen. Retailers pay around 100 pesos for roughly 88-95 pesos worth of coins. Experts say this business is more profitable than, for example, manufacturing fake coins.Hoarding coins is not in itself a crime, so when the chamber filed the complaint, the justice ministry intervened to find a way to fill the legal loophole. It came up with the idea of charging coin hoarders and dealers with putting national security at risk. In a subsequent raid in Buenos Aires on October 9, police seized 134 barrels full of coins from a private money transport company. After three weeks of counting, the police announced that 21 barrels contained fake coins while the rest had to a total of 4.5 million pesos (some $1.3m or \u00a3876,700).If it ended there, the story would be no more than a witty scheme to make some extra money through shady operations. However, the problem is not reduced to one company and a few stores. The central bank, which regulates bank activities, fined five banks last year for not handing out coins to clients, as is mandatory, and 10 other banks are now under investigation.And if the shortage troubles retailers, it is more disturbing for Argentineans who must use buses or want to do small shopping. According to regulation, banks are under the obligation to give up to 20 pesos worth of coins to any person who requires it (the amount was lowered last year from 100 pesos because it was impossible to meet). Banks regularly dismiss the regulations, however, and hand out as little as three pesos in coins. With bus fares ranging from 0.90 to 1.50 pesos, this is obviously not enough.The shortage is considered a national problem, but it is mainly centred in the greater Buenos Aires area, whose population of roughly 13 million people represent around 30% of the country's population. The core public transportation in this metropolitan area is a bus network of more than 200 lines owned by dozens of different companies. Unlike other cities in the country and abroad, buses cannot be used with pre-paid magnetic fare cards. Save a few exceptions, the only way to pay the bus fare is onboard with coins, which are therefore in large demand. Because all their income is in metallic, metropolitan bus companies are suspected of acting in cohorts with money transportation companies to sell coins instead of depositing them in banks, which would return them to the financial system.In a Wall Street Journal op-ed this week, an American university professor, George Selgin, offered some advice to solve the problem. Selgin believes that the Argentine government should allow private companies to issue distinct coins that people can choose or not to use. But Argentine monetary history shows that such as system is likely to fail.Until the early 1990s, coin-sized tokens were the only way to pay for underground fares and public phones, and they are still used in some video game arcades. Tokens were cumbersome to carry, as they could be used only for specific situations and were truly \"distinctive private money\", as they were not interchangeable (phone tokens could not be used in the underground and vice-versa). Another variety of counterfeit money has existed recurrently in Argentine history in the form of provincial and national government bonds used to pay workers whenever cash was scarce. During the 2001-2002 national economic crisis some 20 different bonds circulated in the country at the same time in parallel with legal money. The first system is recalled as highly unpractical for users, the second as harmful to monetary policy.While it is accused of inefficiency, the central bank says 2007 marked an all-time high in the number of coins manufactured and says that production went up an extra 12% in 2008, setting a new high in circulation. According to the central bank, there is an average of roughly 100 pesos worth of coins on the street for every Argentine citizen.Meanwhile, people must struggle to pay their bus fares and argue with shop clerks over change. Want to buy a 2.50 peso Coke? Better pay with a fiver so the attendant can give you a 2-peso bill and 0.50 in change. Paying with four pesos (two 2-peso bills) would require the shopkeeper to part with at least a 1 peso coin and a 0.50 coin \u2013 too much of a commodity.Argentina has always been a country where larger bills \u2013 50s and 100s \u2013 are far easier to come by than small change, be it coins or 5- and 10-peso bills. When pennies existed in this country during the 1990s, they were not usually accepted by shopkeepers because they were considered a nuisance. Thus, in Argentina and unlike other countries, the phrase \"Got any spare change?\" is common to most people, not only the corner beggar. The current shortage has simply made it more popular then ever.", "tags": ["US news", "World news", "Argentina", "Money"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: A small change shortage in Argentina leads to chaos"},{"date": "2009-02-25T10:32:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A Roman Catholic bishop who questioned the truth of the Holocaust arrived in Britain today after being asked to leave Argentina.Richard Williamson, who left Buenos Aires wearing a baseball cap and sunglasses yesterday, arrived at Heathrow airport dressed all in black and wearing a dog collar. Several police officers escorted him through a media scrum, and a photographer was manhandled by police during the jostling.The British-born bishop did not comment and was whisked away in a silver Land Rover.Williamson had been at the St Pius X seminary in Buenos Aires for five years, but last week the Argentinian government gave him 10 days to leave the country.Williamson caused outrage with his remarks, which surfaced shortly after the Vatican's recent decision to welcome him back into the Catholic church. He is reported to have claimed in a television interview last month that historical evidence suggested there \"were no gas chambers\" and that only 300,000 Jews died in Nazi concentration camps.He has since declared himself ready to think again, and in a recent interview with Spiegel magazine, the bishop reiterated that he was prepared to \"review the historical evidence\". Most historians agree around 6 million Jews were killed under Hitler's regime.\"Historical evidence is at issue, not emotions. And if I find this evidence, I will correct myself. But that will take time,\" the disgraced bishop said.He added that he would test his views not by travelling to Auschwitz but by reading a book on the camp by Jean-Claude Pressac, a former Holocaust denier who revised his views after a visit.The Catholic bishops of England and Wales have already condemned Bishop Williamson's views on the Holocaust as \"totally unacceptable\" and have stressed that the lifting of his excommunication was for unrelated matters. A spokesman for the Catholic bishops conference of England and Wales said he had \"absolutely no idea\" where Bishop Williamson was going after his arrival in Britain.He said: \"He does not fall into the jurisdiction of any of the England and Wales bishops because he is not in full communion with the Catholic church.\"He will have to make his own arrangements, whether that is with a Catholic priest or with somebody else.\"From the hierarchy's perspective, he has got nothing to do with the bishops of this country.\"Williamson did have one supporter at Heathrow; Michele Renouf, a socialite turned documentary-maker, said she wanted to represent and support him in getting his views across to the public.She blamed Germany - which has a Holocaust-denial law - for causing the \"scrum of Jewish protests\" and said it was a \"disgrace\" that there could be no debate on the issue. Renouf, who came to Heathrow with her legal team, has become increasingly known in recent years for associating with those who deny the Holocaust. She supported the historian, David Irving, during his trial in Vienna for Holocaust denial. Last year, she helped put together a legal team for an Australian academic, Frederick Toben, after he was arrested at Heathrow airport.Williamson, who describes himself on his personal blog as a dinosaur, belongs to an ultra-traditionalist religious order that opposes recent reforms by Rome.The decision to remove the cleric from the seminary was an attempt to smooth over frayed relations with the Vatican, said a spokesman for Williamson's religious order, the Society of Saint Pius X, adding that Williamson's views in no way reflected those of the order.Williamson is believed to be at the London headquarters of the Society of Saint Pius in Wimbledon, south London, where the Land Rover that took him from Heathrow was parked outside. Two priests who answered the door refused to comment.Williamson's opinions sparked outrage among Jews and embarrassed the Vatican, which ordered the bishop to publicly recant. The Vatican, along with Williamson's order, claims to have had no prior knowledge of his beliefs about the Holocaust before lifting his excommunication.The excommunication in 1988 was lifted along with those of three other bishops ordained without Vatican permission by the renegade French archbishop, Marcel Lefebvre.Pope Benedict had made healing the breach between the Society of Saint Pius X and mainstream Catholics one of the chief aims of his papacy. The British bishop had welcomed his entry back into the church as a \"great step forward\", although he continued to denounce the Vatican as liberal.\"There is still a long way to go before the neo-modernists in Rome, conscious or unconscious, realise \u2013 if ever! \u2013 how they mistake the faith,\" Williamson said.The bishop has sought to prevent his original television interview from being broadcast on the internet, but a German court has rejected his argument.Lord Janner, the president of the Holocaust Educational Trust, said: \"It would be much better if he was not here, but as a British citizen it cannot be prevented.\"", "tags": ["Religion", "Holocaust", "UK news", "Argentina", "Catholicism", "Judaism", "Second world war"], "title": "Holocaust-denying bishop lands in UK after expulsion from Argentina"},{"date": "2009-02-15T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Question: I emailed Smile to let them know that I would be going to Argentina and Uruguay over Christmas and new year to visit my daughter who was travelling around South America. They wished me an enjoyable trip. On arrival in Buenos Aires, I was unable to withdraw pesos from a cash machine and had no way of contacting the bank because I did not take my mobile phone with me.Later in the day I emailed Smile, but received no reply. My daughter paid for my food and bought me a phone card. When I got through to Smile on the telephone, I was told that they knew I was in Argentina so there wasn't a problem and they questioned whether I was using the correct pin number. When I stated that there clearly was a problem, they said the fraud department had stopped my card. They unblocked my card and we then enjoyed the holiday until, that is, we moved on to Uruguay.I had promised to pay for a celebration meal but my card was rejected. The next day, Christmas Day, I spent nearly two hours trying to get a telephone line to England. When I eventually got through I was told to phone a different number but, when I did, a recorded message told me that the bank was closed and I should email.RM, Brentford, LondonMargaret: This is becoming a common problem. Readers alert their banks before going abroad on holiday, only to find that their credit and debit cards are still blocked when they try to use them in foreign countries. Of course, banks have to maintain their security surveillance because cards are more likely to be stolen while you are travelling than when you are at home and some parts of the world, including South America, are particularly high risk. It is indeed possible that your card might have been stolen before you reached the arrivals hall at Buenos Aires airport. But I would have thought that immediately after landing was the one occasion when Smile could have forecast that you would be using your card in a cash machine. Even so, Smile confirms that your first attempt to withdraw cash was blocked because of a \"security concern\". It is no easy matter to contact a bank in that situation. Smile says it has no record of you trying to use your card in a Uruguayan restaurant and suggests that this time there was a fault with the connection.But the bank admits it was slow in replying to your email and is sending \u00a3100 for the cost of your phone calls and to compensate for distress.Question: I signed up for internet banking with Nationwide before I began travelling for six months in South and Central America. Two months into my trip, my handbag was stolen in Quito, Ecuador. Nationwide agreed to send a replacement debit card to the British Consulate in Cartagena, Colombia, but it didn't arrive. I moved on to Panama having given up hope. I then asked Nationwide to transfer money to my NatWest account, for which I had a cash card but no funds. They don't seem to be able to understand that I can't do it myself. It costs more than $10 to phone and an email costs 25 cents, but neither approach gets me any closer to my money. Eventually Nationwide sent a replacement card to my home in Beckenham, Kent, but no one can forward it to me as I am travelling around.VT, Central AmericaMargaret: Nationwide admits it has taken an unacceptably long time to transfer money to your NatWest account but it has now done so and is offering \u00a3250 to apologise.Question: I wanted to pay \u00a31,000 into my Abbey account but the branch is some way off and I no longer have a car. The Post Office is only five minutes walk away so I tried to put the money into an account there. The Post Office then wrote saying I had not declared the source of my funds so they could not accept my money. I did not think it is right to ask this of a 77-year-old. I went back to the Post Office and asked for my money back. Six weeks later I am still waiting, despite sending two more letters.AN, Ingatestone, EssexMargaret: Banks have to ask where money has come from when you open a new account in case you are a money launderer or drug dealer that they can trick into declaring ill gotten gains.But Bank of Ireland, which runs the Post Office's savings accounts, was unfairly inflexible not to help you with information or suggestions, or to return your money promptly.The Post Office has now sent back your cheque but I urge you to reconsider as this will be a far more convenient bank for you, although remember that Post Office accounts are covered by Ireland's compensation scheme and not the UK version.Question: Teachers' Pensions wrote to say that my guaranteed minimum pension has come into force with my state pension and that my teachers' pension should have been reduced accordingly. They say it wasn't and I have wrongly received two increases to my pension - one from the Teachers' Pension scheme and again with my state pension. They now want to reduce my teacher's pension. As I am resident in New Zealand, I do not receive any cost of living linked rise with my state pension and shouldn't suffer this drop in income. CF, Hamilton, New ZealandMargaret: This really is rubbing salt into the wound. Your UK state pension is frozen because you live in New Zealand but you are being treated as though it wasn't. Your problem was that no one at Teachers' Pensions took this on board. They now have and you will not be penalised. Teachers' Pensions blames the Revenue which provided the information about your state pension, - although someone at TP should have hesitated while addressing a letter to New Zealand.Question: My mother died in March 2007 and it took me some time to deal with her affairs. In 2008 I provided Equiniti with the probate paperwork to transfer her shares to my name, but I have had no response to my requests to reissue dividend cheques which were still being sent out in my mother's name. I was told I would have to pay \u00a311 to reissue them, which I thought was outrageous, and that they would write to me about it. I have heard nothing. The shares themselves are now virtually worthless, but I would like to recover the dividends at least.NM, Etchingham, East SussexMargaret: Equiniti admits receiving, but simply overlooking, your letter asking the company to reissue the cheques it had wrongly sent out. It has now sent you dividends worth \u00a376 and rounded this up to \u00a3100 apologise for the delay.\u2022 Email Margaret Dibben at money.writes@observer.co.uk or write to Margaret Dibben, Money Writes, The Observer, Kings Place, 90 York Way London N1 9GU and include a telephone number. Do not enclose SAEs or original documents. Letters are selected for publication and we cannot give personal replies. The newspaper accepts no legal responsibility for advice.", "tags": ["Money", "Credit cards", "Consumer affairs"], "title": "Your problems: Margaret Dibben writes your wrongs"},{"date": "2009-02-12T22:00:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the largest penguin colonies in the world is under threat because the birds are being forced to swim further to find food.Magellanic penguins living in the Punta Tombo colony on the coast of Argentina are feeding 25 miles further from their nesting sites than they did only a decade ago, according to scientists who attached satellite tags to the birds.The extra distance spent searching for food during the breeding season takes its toll on the penguins and reduces their chances of having young, said Dr Dee \u00adBoersma at the University of Washington.\"That distance might not sound like much, but they also have to swim another 25 miles back, and they are swimming that extra 50 miles while their mates are back at the breeding grounds, sitting on a nest and starving,\" she added.The colony has already declined by a fifth in the past 22 years, and now numbers 200,000 breeding pairs of penguins. Of the 17 species of penguins, 12 are experiencing rapid population declines.Boersma has studied penguin colonies for the past 25 years and tracks their movements by attaching satellite tags to the animals' backs. While the penguins are incubating an egg, they can swim 270 miles looking for food and be at sea for two to three weeks.The birds' changing behaviour appears to be driven by changes in the environment, including overfishing, which is reducing local stocks of anchovies, and the return of large predators such as foxes and pumas that have previously been controlled by rangers.\"Penguins are having trouble with food on their wintering grounds and if that happens they're not going to come back to their breeding grounds,\" said Boersma. \"If we continue to fish down the food chain and take smaller and smaller fish like anchovies, there won't be anything left for penguins.\"Magellanic penguins nest in burrows and at Punta Tombo they are frequently flooded by rainstorms that can kill small chicks. Analysis of the penguins' movements showed many are moving to colonies up to 250 miles farther north.", "tags": ["Conservation", "Science", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Far-off food puts vast Argentina penguin colony under threat"},{"date": "2009-03-14T00:01:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "When I ask Herv\u00e9 Fabre his opinion of malbec before moving to Argentina, his response is very French: he shrugs, his mouth droops and he goes \"Puhhh!\" Can he be more precise? \"Horrible. Dure. Rustique. It didn't even cross my mind to make wine with it. Then I tried one here and was seduced by the originality and quality.\" It's 17 years since Fabre and his wife, Diane, set up the Fabre Montmayou winery in Luj\u00e1n de Cuyo, in which time Argentina has become justifiably famous for its malbec (so different from its Cahors namesake). But it's no longer enough to talk in general terms about the country and the grape, a point the Catena family made with \"malbec-malbec\", a blend of malbecs from two sites.Argentina has two buzz phrases right now: \"Uco Valley\" and '\"high-altitude vineyards\", and often they are said in the same breath. The Uco Valley in Mendoza is a rift valley formed not glacially but by faulting, a chunk of land that has dropped. In some places (it's crucial to distinguish between districts and producers because the Uco's big and not all marvellous) it produces exhilaratingly vivid, intense malbec. (The transformation is akin to that of sauvignon blanc in Marlborough, New Zealand.) Broadly speaking, altitude has an impact because daytime temperature drops 1C with every 100m increase in height, nights are cooler and UV levels rise as you go higher, which intensifies carotenoids. \"Grapes grow thicker skins, and having more layers of cells means more aromatics and tannins,\" says Catena's Alejandro Sejanovich.Wineries have identified the diverse characteristics of malbec in various districts. At the Do\u00f1a Paula winery they define these as: strawberry and red fruit in Lunlunta and Drummond; black cherry and spice in Agrelo; plums, spice and dried herbs in Ugarteche; black fruit in Gualtallary... See how a malbec-malbec blend might work? I favour the strong, violet notes in malbec from Vistalba and Agrelo, particularly if combined with the vibrancy of wine from an Uco district. Four favourites: Do\u00f1a Paula Estate Malbec 2008 (\u00a39.99, or \u00a37.99 by the case, Oddbins, in store next month; 14% abv), which is made with French oak, tremendously perfumed and fresh, with a sensational smell and the purity of a coulis. Do\u00f1a Paula Malbec Seleccion de Bodega 2005 (\u00a331.65, Cavas de Gaucho; 14.5%) has a broad, sweeping cloud of perfume, a suggestion of prunes, panoply of spice, the comfortableness of an antique sideboard. Fabre Montmayou Gran Reserva Malbec 2007 (\u00a39.99, Laith-waites; 14.5%) is deep, dark as black ink and reeks of violets. And Pulenta Estate Malbec 2005 (\u00a313.65, Berry Bros; 13.5%) is a beauty, structured like an elegant chateau, bold, with a floral scent and refreshing acidity. victoriaxmoore@gmail.comInycon Fiano 2007, Sicily (\u00a34.39, down from \u00a35.99, Waitrose; 13% abv) Good-value marzipan- and pear-tinged white to have with seafood.", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Victoria Moore on why Argentina is giving malbec a good name"},{"date": "2009-02-08T12:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The largest and heaviest dinosaur that ever lived was, until recently, thought to be the titanosaurian Argentinosaurus, a herbivorous sauropod that lived around 100-90 million years ago in the middle of the Cretaceous period. It is estimated to have grown up to 35 metres long and weighed as much as 80 tonnes.However, in 2006, the discovery of the giant neck, back and tail bones of a new sauropod, Puertasaurus reuili, was announced in Argentina, and it has been speculated that this dinosaur may have extended more than 35 metres in length and weighed close to 100 tonnes.Of course, there has to be an upper limit to what body size can be supported on land by four legs, however big. Another limiting factor is the ability to consume enough plant material to sustain such a huge body, although sauropods' long necks and ability to swallow large amounts of plant food (which was digested in the large gut) without chewing would have allowed them to feed very quickly from a wide area without needing to move their body. (The fact there was an abundance of food available at this time was also critical.)Another evolutionary advantage of their sheer size is that adult sauropods, like elephants today, would not have been targeted by predators because they were just too big to feed on. In comparison, the largest ever carnivores were probably Giganotosaurus (measuring up to 13.2 metres long) and Spinosaurus (up to 18 metres) - significantly smaller than the largest herbivores of this time.Taller and longer but slimmer than T. rex, Giganotosaurus lived in the middle of the Cretaceous period in the southern hemisphere; it was first discovered by an amateur fossil hunter in Patagonia, southern Argentina, in 1993. A second, larger specimen was found in the same area; its skull may have been the largest ever discovered on a theropod dinosaur at almost 2 metres. It has also been estimated that this bipedal predator may have been able to run at speeds of up to 31mph.A single, cervical vertebra of about 75cm was discovered on the Isle of Wight and described in 2004. Unofficially known as Angloposeidon, it is thought to belong to the brachiosaurid family which also includes Brachiosaurus, the dinosaur thought for most of the last century to be the largest of all. Estimated to have come from a dinosaur of around 20 metres in length, this may be the biggest dinosaur ever found in Europe. The specimen is on display at Dinosaur Isle on the Isle of Wight (dinosaurisle.com).", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Fossils", "Zoology", "Science", "Biology"], "title": "Which were the biggest dinosaurs of all?"},{"date": "2009-06-05T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the differences between the United States and most other developed countries is that the US Congress can have a foreign policy of its own, and one that does not necessarily coincide with the objectives of the executive branch.This is generally a good thing, since it allows the citizenry to have influence that it does not have in most European countries, and to limit some of the damage that the executive branch is often doing around the world. It was Congress that, under pressure from the anti-war movement, eventually cut funding for the Vietnam war. And in the 1980s a well-organised, mostly religious-based movement pressured Congress to cut off funding for Ronald Reagan's brutal insurgency in Nicaragua.Occasionally, however, individual members of Congress \u2013 representing special interests \u2013 can be an annoyance when the executive is trying to maintain or repair relations with other countries. Such is the case with US-Argentine relations, which fell to a low point during the Bush years, and which President Barack Obama would like to improve. Now comes Eric Massa, a freshman Democratic representative from Corning in the state of New York, introducing legislation on 20 May that would seek to punish Argentina by, among other things, denying the country access to US capital markets.Some background: In December of 2001 the government of Argentina defaulted on about $81bn (plus interest) of its sovereign debt, as a result of a general economic collapse that followed a deep recession. In 2005 about 75% percent of the defaulted bondholders reached an agreement with the government that paid about 30 cents on the dollar. The remainder, with some $19.4bn, held out with the hope of getting more later.The holdouts have a lobby group in Washington, the American Task Force Argentina. It is headed by former Clinton administration officials, who are trying to use Congress to put pressure on Argentina. The lobbyists include vulture fund investors, who buy up defaulted debt at a small fraction of face value and then use lawsuits and other pressure tactics to fight for the face value of the bonds.If there is an injustice in Argentina's default, it is that the IMF \u2013 which had as much responsibility as anyone in the world for the deep recession that pushed half of Argentina's population below the poverty line \u2013 ended up collecting on its loans in full. But that is another, longer story.The fact is that Argentina's default was an unavoidable part of an economic collapse. It was also a necessary precondition for the country's economic recovery, which began just three months after the government stopped payment on its public debt. In just under seven years Argentina's real GDP has grown by 66%, about the best performance in the hemisphere, pulling more than 11 million people out of poverty and reversing much of the damage that was done under IMF tutelage in the prior decade.Argentina's debt before the default was simply unpayable. In the US and most other countries, we have bankruptcy laws that enable a debtor to get out from unpayable debts and start afresh. In the world of sovereign debt, there is as yet no comparable mechanism other than default. Of course, it is quite possible that the Argentine government will reach a settlement with the holdout bondholders, and there has been some movement in that direction in the last year or so. A settlement would restore Argentina's access to international credit markets.Ironically, the moves by Massa and ATFA makes it less likely that such a settlement would be reached, because the vulture funds they represent are playing a different game. They want their pound of flesh. They are gunning for the face value of the bonds and are willing to throw any of the more realistic creditors (among the holdouts) under the bus to get as much as they can. The vultures are therefore undermining other creditors, including current bondholders whose investments are not in jeopardy but would increase in value if Argentina had full access to international credit markets.Who are the constituents that Massa and ATFA represent? A look at 15 bondholders that hold more than $25m each in claims against Argentina shows that nine of them have addresses in the Cayman Islands. One of these is NML Capital Ltd, a vulture fund affiliate of the hedge fund firm Elliot Associates (a member of ATFA), run by founder Paul Singer. According to Bloomberg News, NML Capital bought at least $182m of Argentine debt for 15-30 cents on the dollar. Singer has taken a gamble that paid off in Peru in 2000. He made a 400% profit from the Peruvian government through lawsuits and pressure.The vultures will not get very far with Argentina, where not only the government but the political opposition and the Argentine people overwhelmingly are determined not to surrender to them. But they can make a settlement with the other creditors more difficult and also hope to throw obstacles on the road to better US-Argentine relations. That appears to be the main potential of Massa's bill in Congress, and of course the ATFA lobby group's efforts: to create the false impression that the holdouts' debt is an impediment to improved US-Argentine relations. This is certainly not true for the Obama administration. But the opposition media in Argentina can exaggerate the seriousness of this congressional effort (which has almost no chance of becoming law) to try and undermine President Cristina Kirchner's government. It's all smoke and mirrors: an elaborate, well-funded international public relations effort.", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "US Congress", "Global economy", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Vultures circle Argentina | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2009-06-05T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the differences between the United States and most other developed countries is that the US Congress can have a foreign policy of its own, and one that does not necessarily coincide with the objectives of the executive branch.This is generally a good thing, since it allows the citizenry to have influence that it does not have in most European countries, and to limit some of the damage that the executive branch is often doing around the world. It was Congress that, under pressure from the anti-war movement, eventually cut funding for the Vietnam war. And in the 1980s a well-organised, mostly religious-based movement pressured Congress to cut off funding for Ronald Reagan's brutal insurgency in Nicaragua.Occasionally, however, individual members of Congress \u2013 representing special interests \u2013 can be an annoyance when the executive is trying to maintain or repair relations with other countries. Such is the case with US-Argentine relations, which fell to a low point during the Bush years, and which President Barack Obama would like to improve. Now comes Eric Massa, a freshman Democratic representative from Corning in the state of New York, introducing legislation on 20 May that would seek to punish Argentina by, among other things, denying the country access to US capital markets.Some background: In December of 2001 the government of Argentina defaulted on about $81bn (plus interest) of its sovereign debt, as a result of a general economic collapse that followed a deep recession. In 2005 about 75% percent of the defaulted bondholders reached an agreement with the government that paid about 30 cents on the dollar. The remainder, with some $19.4bn, held out with the hope of getting more later.The holdouts have a lobby group in Washington, the American Task Force Argentina. It is headed by former Clinton administration officials, who are trying to use Congress to put pressure on Argentina. The lobbyists include vulture fund investors, who buy up defaulted debt at a small fraction of face value and then use lawsuits and other pressure tactics to fight for the face value of the bonds.If there is an injustice in Argentina's default, it is that the IMF \u2013 which had as much responsibility as anyone in the world for the deep recession that pushed half of Argentina's population below the poverty line \u2013 ended up collecting on its loans in full. But that is another, longer story.The fact is that Argentina's default was an unavoidable part of an economic collapse. It was also a necessary precondition for the country's economic recovery, which began just three months after the government stopped payment on its public debt. In just under seven years Argentina's real GDP has grown by 66%, about the best performance in the hemisphere, pulling more than 11 million people out of poverty and reversing much of the damage that was done under IMF tutelage in the prior decade.Argentina's debt before the default was simply unpayable. In the US and most other countries, we have bankruptcy laws that enable a debtor to get out from unpayable debts and start afresh. In the world of sovereign debt, there is as yet no comparable mechanism other than default. Of course, it is quite possible that the Argentine government will reach a settlement with the holdout bondholders, and there has been some movement in that direction in the last year or so. A settlement would restore Argentina's access to international credit markets.Ironically, the moves by Massa and ATFA makes it less likely that such a settlement would be reached, because the vulture funds they represent are playing a different game. They want their pound of flesh. They are gunning for the face value of the bonds and are willing to throw any of the more realistic creditors (among the holdouts) under the bus to get as much as they can. The vultures are therefore undermining other creditors, including current bondholders whose investments are not in jeopardy but would increase in value if Argentina had full access to international credit markets.Who are the constituents that Massa and ATFA represent? A look at 15 bondholders that hold more than $25m each in claims against Argentina shows that nine of them have addresses in the Cayman Islands. One of these is NML Capital Ltd, a vulture fund affiliate of the hedge fund firm Elliot Associates (a member of ATFA), run by founder Paul Singer. According to Bloomberg News, NML Capital bought at least $182m of Argentine debt for 15-30 cents on the dollar. Singer has taken a gamble that paid off in Peru in 2000. He made a 400% profit from the Peruvian government through lawsuits and pressure.The vultures will not get very far with Argentina, where not only the government but the political opposition and the Argentine people overwhelmingly are determined not to surrender to them. But they can make a settlement with the other creditors more difficult and also hope to throw obstacles on the road to better US-Argentine relations. That appears to be the main potential of Massa's bill in Congress, and of course the ATFA lobby group's efforts: to create the false impression that the holdouts' debt is an impediment to improved US-Argentine relations. This is certainly not true for the Obama administration. But the opposition media in Argentina can exaggerate the seriousness of this congressional effort (which has almost no chance of becoming law) to try and undermine President Cristina Kirchner's government. It's all smoke and mirrors: an elaborate, well-funded international public relations effort.", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "US Congress", "Global economy", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Vultures circle Argentina | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2009-04-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the eyes of many, Argentina is out of place in the G20. Its GDP may still be among the world's 30 largest, but its financial record this century is, at best, shady, according to the standards of international investors and financial institutions. Those are the same standards, by the way, that allowed for the current international crisis.Even so, the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, is convinced the country can pass on both its experience and economic model to a battered world in need of financial guidance. Almost from the day Lehman Brothers went bust, Kirchner has spoken about how the developing world was peacefully going on with its life when the developed world showed up to complicate everybody's existence with its crisis. As she told the UN General Assembly in September: the world has been hit by \"the Jazz Effect\".When people talk of the biggest crisis in 60 years \u2013 a crisis so big it is leading to the implosion of long-standing financial structures \u2013 Argentinians can nod with the self-assurance of those who know. In 2001, the country suffered a life-changing crisis of its own \u2013 one that ousted presidents, set off months of social upheaval and led to the downfall of an ingrained economic system. The roots of that crisis lay in a model based to the dot on the rules of the market.The recovery started in 2002 under the stewardship of a caretaker president, Eduardo Duhalde, who was replaced in 2003 by Cristina Kirchner's husband, N\u00e9stor. Starting with Duhalde, but mainly under the two consecutive Kirchner administrations, Argentina has gone from financial hubris to the longest period of economic growth in the country's history.The Argentinian presidential couple like to say they set the domestic economy on course by turning a deaf ear to the dictates of the market. There is some truth here: foreign debt was not taken in traditional financial markets; International Monetary Fund officials fortunately lost their say over domestic policies; export taxes on commodities became a key factor in fiscal accounts; and the privatisation frenzy of the neo-liberal 90s was replaced by a number of re-nationalisations, active government intervention in the economy and a \"no worries\" approach towards the size of state. \"Buy Argentinian\" was also promoted, as was a higher participation of value-added products in total exports, and higher salaries. If all this sounds familiar, it is because countries all over the world are working on similar policies now.Kirchner has another strong argument to promote: financial markets cannot form the backbone of the economy. If one of the essential talking points of the London summit is going to be a revamp of the IMF and other financial institutions, then Argentina has a lot to say. It can, after all, offer an example of what life is like without the IMF and ratings agencies.There is another of capitalism's many layers that the Kirchners have sniffed at and G20 members should study. Under their mandates, Argentina has stopped being a government of the kind that is, to quote Amartya Sen, reliant \"only on a profit-maximizing market economy and on personal entitlements confined to private ownership\".However, the Argentinian model is far from being a dependable reference point, for several reasons. First, it has been sustained by an export-friendly currency, hard to concert among all of the world's largest economies. Second, the model has failed to keep inflation on a leash and, in the past two years, to keep poverty rates from increasing. Third, and most important, it is a model that flourished during years of robust trade and a healthy global economy. The current scenario is the opposite, and different recipes will be needed.Also, on the political front, the Kirchner administrations have been plagued by accusations of cronyism. They have suffered the desertion and disillusionment of members who accuse the government of steadily turning to the right and of acting out of instinct rather than reflection. There has also been concern about the political use of public funds.Because of this, the Argentinian experience should be considered as a case study in need of perfection \u2013 and not the holy economic grail the Kirchner administration would have us believe it is.There is one more lesson Argentina may teach the world \u2013 one about \"life after capitalism\", a recurrent theme in op-eds worldwide. It was only three or four years ago that N\u00e9stor Kirchner assailed international financial outfits like the IMF almost on a daily basis. But now the government of his wife \u2013 an administration where he has a strong voice \u2013 is looking for an elegant way to return to the the fund. As Argentinians can tell, the fall of capitalism comes with a lot of stormy winds \u2013 but once they die down, \"life after capitalism\" looks quite similar to life as we know it.", "tags": ["G20", "Argentina", "US news", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "World news", "Global economy", "Business", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: Argentina does belong in the G20, despite what critics say"},{"date": "2009-06-05T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the differences between the United States and most other developed countries is that the US Congress can have a foreign policy of its own, and one that does not necessarily coincide with the objectives of the executive branch.This is generally a good thing, since it allows the citizenry to have influence that it does not have in most European countries, and to limit some of the damage that the executive branch is often doing around the world. It was Congress that, under pressure from the anti-war movement, eventually cut funding for the Vietnam war. And in the 1980s a well-organised, mostly religious-based movement pressured Congress to cut off funding for Ronald Reagan's brutal insurgency in Nicaragua.Occasionally, however, individual members of Congress \u2013 representing special interests \u2013 can be an annoyance when the executive is trying to maintain or repair relations with other countries. Such is the case with US-Argentine relations, which fell to a low point during the Bush years, and which President Barack Obama would like to improve. Now comes Eric Massa, a freshman Democratic representative from Corning in the state of New York, introducing legislation on 20 May that would seek to punish Argentina by, among other things, denying the country access to US capital markets.Some background: In December of 2001 the government of Argentina defaulted on about $81bn (plus interest) of its sovereign debt, as a result of a general economic collapse that followed a deep recession. In 2005 about 75% percent of the defaulted bondholders reached an agreement with the government that paid about 30 cents on the dollar. The remainder, with some $19.4bn, held out with the hope of getting more later.The holdouts have a lobby group in Washington, the American Task Force Argentina. It is headed by former Clinton administration officials, who are trying to use Congress to put pressure on Argentina. The lobbyists include vulture fund investors, who buy up defaulted debt at a small fraction of face value and then use lawsuits and other pressure tactics to fight for the face value of the bonds.If there is an injustice in Argentina's default, it is that the IMF \u2013 which had as much responsibility as anyone in the world for the deep recession that pushed half of Argentina's population below the poverty line \u2013 ended up collecting on its loans in full. But that is another, longer story.The fact is that Argentina's default was an unavoidable part of an economic collapse. It was also a necessary precondition for the country's economic recovery, which began just three months after the government stopped payment on its public debt. In just under seven years Argentina's real GDP has grown by 66%, about the best performance in the hemisphere, pulling more than 11 million people out of poverty and reversing much of the damage that was done under IMF tutelage in the prior decade.Argentina's debt before the default was simply unpayable. In the US and most other countries, we have bankruptcy laws that enable a debtor to get out from unpayable debts and start afresh. In the world of sovereign debt, there is as yet no comparable mechanism other than default. Of course, it is quite possible that the Argentine government will reach a settlement with the holdout bondholders, and there has been some movement in that direction in the last year or so. A settlement would restore Argentina's access to international credit markets.Ironically, the moves by Massa and ATFA makes it less likely that such a settlement would be reached, because the vulture funds they represent are playing a different game. They want their pound of flesh. They are gunning for the face value of the bonds and are willing to throw any of the more realistic creditors (among the holdouts) under the bus to get as much as they can. The vultures are therefore undermining other creditors, including current bondholders whose investments are not in jeopardy but would increase in value if Argentina had full access to international credit markets.Who are the constituents that Massa and ATFA represent? A look at 15 bondholders that hold more than $25m each in claims against Argentina shows that nine of them have addresses in the Cayman Islands. One of these is NML Capital Ltd, a vulture fund affiliate of the hedge fund firm Elliot Associates (a member of ATFA), run by founder Paul Singer. According to Bloomberg News, NML Capital bought at least $182m of Argentine debt for 15-30 cents on the dollar. Singer has taken a gamble that paid off in Peru in 2000. He made a 400% profit from the Peruvian government through lawsuits and pressure.The vultures will not get very far with Argentina, where not only the government but the political opposition and the Argentine people overwhelmingly are determined not to surrender to them. But they can make a settlement with the other creditors more difficult and also hope to throw obstacles on the road to better US-Argentine relations. That appears to be the main potential of Massa's bill in Congress, and of course the ATFA lobby group's efforts: to create the false impression that the holdouts' debt is an impediment to improved US-Argentine relations. This is certainly not true for the Obama administration. But the opposition media in Argentina can exaggerate the seriousness of this congressional effort (which has almost no chance of becoming law) to try and undermine President Cristina Kirchner's government. It's all smoke and mirrors: an elaborate, well-funded international public relations effort.", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "US Congress", "Global economy", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Vultures circle Argentina | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2009-04-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the eyes of many, Argentina is out of place in the G20. Its GDP may still be among the world's 30 largest, but its financial record this century is, at best, shady, according to the standards of international investors and financial institutions. Those are the same standards, by the way, that allowed for the current international crisis.Even so, the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, is convinced the country can pass on both its experience and economic model to a battered world in need of financial guidance. Almost from the day Lehman Brothers went bust, Kirchner has spoken about how the developing world was peacefully going on with its life when the developed world showed up to complicate everybody's existence with its crisis. As she told the UN General Assembly in September: the world has been hit by \"the Jazz Effect\".When people talk of the biggest crisis in 60 years \u2013 a crisis so big it is leading to the implosion of long-standing financial structures \u2013 Argentinians can nod with the self-assurance of those who know. In 2001, the country suffered a life-changing crisis of its own \u2013 one that ousted presidents, set off months of social upheaval and led to the downfall of an ingrained economic system. The roots of that crisis lay in a model based to the dot on the rules of the market.The recovery started in 2002 under the stewardship of a caretaker president, Eduardo Duhalde, who was replaced in 2003 by Cristina Kirchner's husband, N\u00e9stor. Starting with Duhalde, but mainly under the two consecutive Kirchner administrations, Argentina has gone from financial hubris to the longest period of economic growth in the country's history.The Argentinian presidential couple like to say they set the domestic economy on course by turning a deaf ear to the dictates of the market. There is some truth here: foreign debt was not taken in traditional financial markets; International Monetary Fund officials fortunately lost their say over domestic policies; export taxes on commodities became a key factor in fiscal accounts; and the privatisation frenzy of the neo-liberal 90s was replaced by a number of re-nationalisations, active government intervention in the economy and a \"no worries\" approach towards the size of state. \"Buy Argentinian\" was also promoted, as was a higher participation of value-added products in total exports, and higher salaries. If all this sounds familiar, it is because countries all over the world are working on similar policies now.Kirchner has another strong argument to promote: financial markets cannot form the backbone of the economy. If one of the essential talking points of the London summit is going to be a revamp of the IMF and other financial institutions, then Argentina has a lot to say. It can, after all, offer an example of what life is like without the IMF and ratings agencies.There is another of capitalism's many layers that the Kirchners have sniffed at and G20 members should study. Under their mandates, Argentina has stopped being a government of the kind that is, to quote Amartya Sen, reliant \"only on a profit-maximizing market economy and on personal entitlements confined to private ownership\".However, the Argentinian model is far from being a dependable reference point, for several reasons. First, it has been sustained by an export-friendly currency, hard to concert among all of the world's largest economies. Second, the model has failed to keep inflation on a leash and, in the past two years, to keep poverty rates from increasing. Third, and most important, it is a model that flourished during years of robust trade and a healthy global economy. The current scenario is the opposite, and different recipes will be needed.Also, on the political front, the Kirchner administrations have been plagued by accusations of cronyism. They have suffered the desertion and disillusionment of members who accuse the government of steadily turning to the right and of acting out of instinct rather than reflection. There has also been concern about the political use of public funds.Because of this, the Argentinian experience should be considered as a case study in need of perfection \u2013 and not the holy economic grail the Kirchner administration would have us believe it is.There is one more lesson Argentina may teach the world \u2013 one about \"life after capitalism\", a recurrent theme in op-eds worldwide. It was only three or four years ago that N\u00e9stor Kirchner assailed international financial outfits like the IMF almost on a daily basis. But now the government of his wife \u2013 an administration where he has a strong voice \u2013 is looking for an elegant way to return to the the fund. As Argentinians can tell, the fall of capitalism comes with a lot of stormy winds \u2013 but once they die down, \"life after capitalism\" looks quite similar to life as we know it.", "tags": ["G20", "Argentina", "US news", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "World news", "Global economy", "Business", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: Argentina does belong in the G20, despite what critics say"},{"date": "2009-04-02T16:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Few outside of Argentina remember him, but a good man died yesterday. Raul Alfonsin was the first democratically elected president of the Argentine Republic after seven years of military rule in which over 10,000 Argentinians were \"disappeared\" by the military in a \"Dirty War\" against leftist guerrillas.The guerrilla groups, of whom the most prominent were the Montoneros, were active throughout the 1970s, and they were deadly. Anyone in the military, law enforcement, industry or finance risked being kidnapped or killed. The guerrillas bombed police stations, military barracks and apartment buildings. They were subversives whose ranks included members of normally peaceful occupations: priests, journalists, social workers, students, teachers. No one seemed able to discern who was a nonviolent leftist and who was secretly a violent revolutionary, and unrest spread throughout the country, threatening to devolve into outright civil war. Some Argentinians considered the Montoneros to be idealists, but Raul Alfonsin, a member of the centrist Radical party, never did. He condemned their cruelty and destruction.In 1976, a military junta took control of the country and set about eradicating the guerrillas. The counterterrorist measures taken were of a brutality and magnitude that the country had never seen. The military kidnapped people it suspected of being involved in terrorism, secreting them away to hidden detention centres where they would be interrogated and tortured. Most of those kidnapped were killed, in some cases by being drugged and pushed alive out of airplanes. Mothers, fathers and relatives of people who were disappeared would go to police stations and ministries and courtrooms seeking information on those who had gone missing \u2013 only to be told that no one had any information to give. Fearful of being placed on a target list by the government, most Argentinians fled or kept silent during those terrifying years. But Raul Alfonsin did not, loudly condemning the military government and offering help to families seeking information on their missing loved ones.In 1983, Argentina finally ousted the military dictators and held genuine elections. No one expected Raul Alfonsin, whose Radical party had never enjoyed much public support, to win. But Alfonsin did win. He inherited a country beset by debt, inflation and bitter memories. Argentinians had high hopes that he could pull them out of the morass.Alfonsin wanted to demonstrate to everyone that Argentina was once again a country ruled by laws, and he undertook two important things to put the Dirty War to rest: he assembled a commission to investigate the thousands of disappearances, and he put the leaders of the military junta on trial. Argentinians and observers around the world were shocked by the testimony of survivors, who gave accounts of beatings, electrocution and extrajudicial killings. A list of the missing was compiled and came to over 10,000. The generals were sentenced to prison (as were surviving guerrilla leaders), and Argentina tried to return to normal.But the fight between extreme left and extreme right in Argentina persisted, albeit less violently. Rightists accused leftists of staging the trials of the generals as revenge for having been defeated on the battlefield. Leftists accused the centrists of going too easy on yesterday's torturers and killers. Alfonsin faced rebellions by military fascists and denunciations by neo-Stalinists.Ultimately, as luck would have it, Alfonsin wound up stumbling as a leader for a more mundane and common reason: the economy worsened. He had inherited a budgetary disaster, and Argentinians were willing to be patient while he attempted to address it. In the end, however, Alfonsin shied away from making the choices necessary to set the country on a sustainable economic course, and inflation soared to 200 percent a month. Investment died out almost entirely, as Argentinians devoted all their economic energy to preserving what capital they could salvage. By 1989, Alfonsin had been voted out, and no one seemed to have anything kind to say about him.Politics is unforgiving and unfair, and often scoundrels who have a run of economic good luck are remembered with undue fondness. Juan Peron subverted Argentine democracy in the 1940s and 50s, but he remains beloved by many Argentinians for having raided the national coffers showing everyone a good time. Raul Alfonsin erred on the side of fiscal timidity, but the economy wound up crushing him. His bravery and decency on more fundamental questions \u2013 his adherence to morality and legality in country that had been swept up in evil and illegality \u2013 were insufficiently acknowledged and quickly forgotten while he was in power. But in the years after, people came to appreciate once again what he had done for Argentina and human rights. When a traumatised nation most desperately needed an upright head of state, Alfonsin proved to be the most upright of men.", "tags": ["Argentina", "US news", "World news"], "title": "TA Frank: Raul Alfonsin was the right man for Argentina"},{"date": "2009-06-05T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the differences between the United States and most other developed countries is that the US Congress can have a foreign policy of its own, and one that does not necessarily coincide with the objectives of the executive branch.This is generally a good thing, since it allows the citizenry to have influence that it does not have in most European countries, and to limit some of the damage that the executive branch is often doing around the world. It was Congress that, under pressure from the anti-war movement, eventually cut funding for the Vietnam war. And in the 1980s a well-organised, mostly religious-based movement pressured Congress to cut off funding for Ronald Reagan's brutal insurgency in Nicaragua.Occasionally, however, individual members of Congress \u2013 representing special interests \u2013 can be an annoyance when the executive is trying to maintain or repair relations with other countries. Such is the case with US-Argentine relations, which fell to a low point during the Bush years, and which President Barack Obama would like to improve. Now comes Eric Massa, a freshman Democratic representative from Corning in the state of New York, introducing legislation on 20 May that would seek to punish Argentina by, among other things, denying the country access to US capital markets.Some background: In December of 2001 the government of Argentina defaulted on about $81bn (plus interest) of its sovereign debt, as a result of a general economic collapse that followed a deep recession. In 2005 about 75% percent of the defaulted bondholders reached an agreement with the government that paid about 30 cents on the dollar. The remainder, with some $19.4bn, held out with the hope of getting more later.The holdouts have a lobby group in Washington, the American Task Force Argentina. It is headed by former Clinton administration officials, who are trying to use Congress to put pressure on Argentina. The lobbyists include vulture fund investors, who buy up defaulted debt at a small fraction of face value and then use lawsuits and other pressure tactics to fight for the face value of the bonds.If there is an injustice in Argentina's default, it is that the IMF \u2013 which had as much responsibility as anyone in the world for the deep recession that pushed half of Argentina's population below the poverty line \u2013 ended up collecting on its loans in full. But that is another, longer story.The fact is that Argentina's default was an unavoidable part of an economic collapse. It was also a necessary precondition for the country's economic recovery, which began just three months after the government stopped payment on its public debt. In just under seven years Argentina's real GDP has grown by 66%, about the best performance in the hemisphere, pulling more than 11 million people out of poverty and reversing much of the damage that was done under IMF tutelage in the prior decade.Argentina's debt before the default was simply unpayable. In the US and most other countries, we have bankruptcy laws that enable a debtor to get out from unpayable debts and start afresh. In the world of sovereign debt, there is as yet no comparable mechanism other than default. Of course, it is quite possible that the Argentine government will reach a settlement with the holdout bondholders, and there has been some movement in that direction in the last year or so. A settlement would restore Argentina's access to international credit markets.Ironically, the moves by Massa and ATFA makes it less likely that such a settlement would be reached, because the vulture funds they represent are playing a different game. They want their pound of flesh. They are gunning for the face value of the bonds and are willing to throw any of the more realistic creditors (among the holdouts) under the bus to get as much as they can. The vultures are therefore undermining other creditors, including current bondholders whose investments are not in jeopardy but would increase in value if Argentina had full access to international credit markets.Who are the constituents that Massa and ATFA represent? A look at 15 bondholders that hold more than $25m each in claims against Argentina shows that nine of them have addresses in the Cayman Islands. One of these is NML Capital Ltd, a vulture fund affiliate of the hedge fund firm Elliot Associates (a member of ATFA), run by founder Paul Singer. According to Bloomberg News, NML Capital bought at least $182m of Argentine debt for 15-30 cents on the dollar. Singer has taken a gamble that paid off in Peru in 2000. He made a 400% profit from the Peruvian government through lawsuits and pressure.The vultures will not get very far with Argentina, where not only the government but the political opposition and the Argentine people overwhelmingly are determined not to surrender to them. But they can make a settlement with the other creditors more difficult and also hope to throw obstacles on the road to better US-Argentine relations. That appears to be the main potential of Massa's bill in Congress, and of course the ATFA lobby group's efforts: to create the false impression that the holdouts' debt is an impediment to improved US-Argentine relations. This is certainly not true for the Obama administration. But the opposition media in Argentina can exaggerate the seriousness of this congressional effort (which has almost no chance of becoming law) to try and undermine President Cristina Kirchner's government. It's all smoke and mirrors: an elaborate, well-funded international public relations effort.", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "US Congress", "Global economy", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Vultures circle Argentina | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2009-04-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the eyes of many, Argentina is out of place in the G20. Its GDP may still be among the world's 30 largest, but its financial record this century is, at best, shady, according to the standards of international investors and financial institutions. Those are the same standards, by the way, that allowed for the current international crisis.Even so, the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, is convinced the country can pass on both its experience and economic model to a battered world in need of financial guidance. Almost from the day Lehman Brothers went bust, Kirchner has spoken about how the developing world was peacefully going on with its life when the developed world showed up to complicate everybody's existence with its crisis. As she told the UN General Assembly in September: the world has been hit by \"the Jazz Effect\".When people talk of the biggest crisis in 60 years \u2013 a crisis so big it is leading to the implosion of long-standing financial structures \u2013 Argentinians can nod with the self-assurance of those who know. In 2001, the country suffered a life-changing crisis of its own \u2013 one that ousted presidents, set off months of social upheaval and led to the downfall of an ingrained economic system. The roots of that crisis lay in a model based to the dot on the rules of the market.The recovery started in 2002 under the stewardship of a caretaker president, Eduardo Duhalde, who was replaced in 2003 by Cristina Kirchner's husband, N\u00e9stor. Starting with Duhalde, but mainly under the two consecutive Kirchner administrations, Argentina has gone from financial hubris to the longest period of economic growth in the country's history.The Argentinian presidential couple like to say they set the domestic economy on course by turning a deaf ear to the dictates of the market. There is some truth here: foreign debt was not taken in traditional financial markets; International Monetary Fund officials fortunately lost their say over domestic policies; export taxes on commodities became a key factor in fiscal accounts; and the privatisation frenzy of the neo-liberal 90s was replaced by a number of re-nationalisations, active government intervention in the economy and a \"no worries\" approach towards the size of state. \"Buy Argentinian\" was also promoted, as was a higher participation of value-added products in total exports, and higher salaries. If all this sounds familiar, it is because countries all over the world are working on similar policies now.Kirchner has another strong argument to promote: financial markets cannot form the backbone of the economy. If one of the essential talking points of the London summit is going to be a revamp of the IMF and other financial institutions, then Argentina has a lot to say. It can, after all, offer an example of what life is like without the IMF and ratings agencies.There is another of capitalism's many layers that the Kirchners have sniffed at and G20 members should study. Under their mandates, Argentina has stopped being a government of the kind that is, to quote Amartya Sen, reliant \"only on a profit-maximizing market economy and on personal entitlements confined to private ownership\".However, the Argentinian model is far from being a dependable reference point, for several reasons. First, it has been sustained by an export-friendly currency, hard to concert among all of the world's largest economies. Second, the model has failed to keep inflation on a leash and, in the past two years, to keep poverty rates from increasing. Third, and most important, it is a model that flourished during years of robust trade and a healthy global economy. The current scenario is the opposite, and different recipes will be needed.Also, on the political front, the Kirchner administrations have been plagued by accusations of cronyism. They have suffered the desertion and disillusionment of members who accuse the government of steadily turning to the right and of acting out of instinct rather than reflection. There has also been concern about the political use of public funds.Because of this, the Argentinian experience should be considered as a case study in need of perfection \u2013 and not the holy economic grail the Kirchner administration would have us believe it is.There is one more lesson Argentina may teach the world \u2013 one about \"life after capitalism\", a recurrent theme in op-eds worldwide. It was only three or four years ago that N\u00e9stor Kirchner assailed international financial outfits like the IMF almost on a daily basis. But now the government of his wife \u2013 an administration where he has a strong voice \u2013 is looking for an elegant way to return to the the fund. As Argentinians can tell, the fall of capitalism comes with a lot of stormy winds \u2013 but once they die down, \"life after capitalism\" looks quite similar to life as we know it.", "tags": ["G20", "Argentina", "US news", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "World news", "Global economy", "Business", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: Argentina does belong in the G20, despite what critics say"},{"date": "2009-04-02T16:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Few outside of Argentina remember him, but a good man died yesterday. Raul Alfonsin was the first democratically elected president of the Argentine Republic after seven years of military rule in which over 10,000 Argentinians were \"disappeared\" by the military in a \"Dirty War\" against leftist guerrillas.The guerrilla groups, of whom the most prominent were the Montoneros, were active throughout the 1970s, and they were deadly. Anyone in the military, law enforcement, industry or finance risked being kidnapped or killed. The guerrillas bombed police stations, military barracks and apartment buildings. They were subversives whose ranks included members of normally peaceful occupations: priests, journalists, social workers, students, teachers. No one seemed able to discern who was a nonviolent leftist and who was secretly a violent revolutionary, and unrest spread throughout the country, threatening to devolve into outright civil war. Some Argentinians considered the Montoneros to be idealists, but Raul Alfonsin, a member of the centrist Radical party, never did. He condemned their cruelty and destruction.In 1976, a military junta took control of the country and set about eradicating the guerrillas. The counterterrorist measures taken were of a brutality and magnitude that the country had never seen. The military kidnapped people it suspected of being involved in terrorism, secreting them away to hidden detention centres where they would be interrogated and tortured. Most of those kidnapped were killed, in some cases by being drugged and pushed alive out of airplanes. Mothers, fathers and relatives of people who were disappeared would go to police stations and ministries and courtrooms seeking information on those who had gone missing \u2013 only to be told that no one had any information to give. Fearful of being placed on a target list by the government, most Argentinians fled or kept silent during those terrifying years. But Raul Alfonsin did not, loudly condemning the military government and offering help to families seeking information on their missing loved ones.In 1983, Argentina finally ousted the military dictators and held genuine elections. No one expected Raul Alfonsin, whose Radical party had never enjoyed much public support, to win. But Alfonsin did win. He inherited a country beset by debt, inflation and bitter memories. Argentinians had high hopes that he could pull them out of the morass.Alfonsin wanted to demonstrate to everyone that Argentina was once again a country ruled by laws, and he undertook two important things to put the Dirty War to rest: he assembled a commission to investigate the thousands of disappearances, and he put the leaders of the military junta on trial. Argentinians and observers around the world were shocked by the testimony of survivors, who gave accounts of beatings, electrocution and extrajudicial killings. A list of the missing was compiled and came to over 10,000. The generals were sentenced to prison (as were surviving guerrilla leaders), and Argentina tried to return to normal.But the fight between extreme left and extreme right in Argentina persisted, albeit less violently. Rightists accused leftists of staging the trials of the generals as revenge for having been defeated on the battlefield. Leftists accused the centrists of going too easy on yesterday's torturers and killers. Alfonsin faced rebellions by military fascists and denunciations by neo-Stalinists.Ultimately, as luck would have it, Alfonsin wound up stumbling as a leader for a more mundane and common reason: the economy worsened. He had inherited a budgetary disaster, and Argentinians were willing to be patient while he attempted to address it. In the end, however, Alfonsin shied away from making the choices necessary to set the country on a sustainable economic course, and inflation soared to 200 percent a month. Investment died out almost entirely, as Argentinians devoted all their economic energy to preserving what capital they could salvage. By 1989, Alfonsin had been voted out, and no one seemed to have anything kind to say about him.Politics is unforgiving and unfair, and often scoundrels who have a run of economic good luck are remembered with undue fondness. Juan Peron subverted Argentine democracy in the 1940s and 50s, but he remains beloved by many Argentinians for having raided the national coffers showing everyone a good time. Raul Alfonsin erred on the side of fiscal timidity, but the economy wound up crushing him. His bravery and decency on more fundamental questions \u2013 his adherence to morality and legality in country that had been swept up in evil and illegality \u2013 were insufficiently acknowledged and quickly forgotten while he was in power. But in the years after, people came to appreciate once again what he had done for Argentina and human rights. When a traumatised nation most desperately needed an upright head of state, Alfonsin proved to be the most upright of men.", "tags": ["Argentina", "US news", "World news"], "title": "TA Frank: Raul Alfonsin was the right man for Argentina"},{"date": "2009-04-01T01:43:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Ra\u00fal Alfons\u00edn, whose presidency has come to symbolise the return of democracy across Latin America from an era of military dictatorships, has died.Alfons\u00edn's personal doctor, Alberto Sadler, said the former president died of lung cancer yesterday. He was 82.The presidential inauguration of the leader on 10 December 1983, ended more than seven years of a repressive military regime that left at least 12,000 disappeared.He won an open election that the military was forced to call, in disgrace after the country's defeat in the 1982 war with Britain over the Falkland Islands.His presidency was marked by two milestones: his daring decision to bring to try the leaders of the dictatorship for the human rights violations, and an economic collapse that made him hand power to his successor six month before his term was to end. Inflation had jumped to over 3,000% annually.Few discussed his crucial role in the restoration of democracy at a time military regimen ruled most of South America.In Argentina, he was instrumental in getting several political groups to set aside differences and unite in a loose coalition that paved the way for the 1983 election. He garnered 51.7% of the vote, handing the powerful Peronist party its first election defeat ever.Shortly after entering the Pink House presidential palace, he stunned many by ordering the trial of nine members of the former ruling military junta, on charges ranging from kidnap to torture and disappearance of thousands of people.It was a bold step in a country where the military had dominated for decades, having taken power in six coups in the 20th century.\"I think that some times I take too many risks, because what we did no one had done before,\" he said later of his decision.But he said the trials were needed to restore a strong judicial system and break the destructive cycle of political chaos and military coups that wracked Argentina for a half-century.The trials, unprecedented in Latin America, were conducted by a civilian court and ended in December 1985 with the conviction and imprisonment of five former military rulers, including two ex-presidents. Four others were acquitted.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Argentina's former president, Ra\u00fal Alfons\u00edn, dies"},{"date": "2009-06-05T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the differences between the United States and most other developed countries is that the US Congress can have a foreign policy of its own, and one that does not necessarily coincide with the objectives of the executive branch.This is generally a good thing, since it allows the citizenry to have influence that it does not have in most European countries, and to limit some of the damage that the executive branch is often doing around the world. It was Congress that, under pressure from the anti-war movement, eventually cut funding for the Vietnam war. And in the 1980s a well-organised, mostly religious-based movement pressured Congress to cut off funding for Ronald Reagan's brutal insurgency in Nicaragua.Occasionally, however, individual members of Congress \u2013 representing special interests \u2013 can be an annoyance when the executive is trying to maintain or repair relations with other countries. Such is the case with US-Argentine relations, which fell to a low point during the Bush years, and which President Barack Obama would like to improve. Now comes Eric Massa, a freshman Democratic representative from Corning in the state of New York, introducing legislation on 20 May that would seek to punish Argentina by, among other things, denying the country access to US capital markets.Some background: In December of 2001 the government of Argentina defaulted on about $81bn (plus interest) of its sovereign debt, as a result of a general economic collapse that followed a deep recession. In 2005 about 75% percent of the defaulted bondholders reached an agreement with the government that paid about 30 cents on the dollar. The remainder, with some $19.4bn, held out with the hope of getting more later.The holdouts have a lobby group in Washington, the American Task Force Argentina. It is headed by former Clinton administration officials, who are trying to use Congress to put pressure on Argentina. The lobbyists include vulture fund investors, who buy up defaulted debt at a small fraction of face value and then use lawsuits and other pressure tactics to fight for the face value of the bonds.If there is an injustice in Argentina's default, it is that the IMF \u2013 which had as much responsibility as anyone in the world for the deep recession that pushed half of Argentina's population below the poverty line \u2013 ended up collecting on its loans in full. But that is another, longer story.The fact is that Argentina's default was an unavoidable part of an economic collapse. It was also a necessary precondition for the country's economic recovery, which began just three months after the government stopped payment on its public debt. In just under seven years Argentina's real GDP has grown by 66%, about the best performance in the hemisphere, pulling more than 11 million people out of poverty and reversing much of the damage that was done under IMF tutelage in the prior decade.Argentina's debt before the default was simply unpayable. In the US and most other countries, we have bankruptcy laws that enable a debtor to get out from unpayable debts and start afresh. In the world of sovereign debt, there is as yet no comparable mechanism other than default. Of course, it is quite possible that the Argentine government will reach a settlement with the holdout bondholders, and there has been some movement in that direction in the last year or so. A settlement would restore Argentina's access to international credit markets.Ironically, the moves by Massa and ATFA makes it less likely that such a settlement would be reached, because the vulture funds they represent are playing a different game. They want their pound of flesh. They are gunning for the face value of the bonds and are willing to throw any of the more realistic creditors (among the holdouts) under the bus to get as much as they can. The vultures are therefore undermining other creditors, including current bondholders whose investments are not in jeopardy but would increase in value if Argentina had full access to international credit markets.Who are the constituents that Massa and ATFA represent? A look at 15 bondholders that hold more than $25m each in claims against Argentina shows that nine of them have addresses in the Cayman Islands. One of these is NML Capital Ltd, a vulture fund affiliate of the hedge fund firm Elliot Associates (a member of ATFA), run by founder Paul Singer. According to Bloomberg News, NML Capital bought at least $182m of Argentine debt for 15-30 cents on the dollar. Singer has taken a gamble that paid off in Peru in 2000. He made a 400% profit from the Peruvian government through lawsuits and pressure.The vultures will not get very far with Argentina, where not only the government but the political opposition and the Argentine people overwhelmingly are determined not to surrender to them. But they can make a settlement with the other creditors more difficult and also hope to throw obstacles on the road to better US-Argentine relations. That appears to be the main potential of Massa's bill in Congress, and of course the ATFA lobby group's efforts: to create the false impression that the holdouts' debt is an impediment to improved US-Argentine relations. This is certainly not true for the Obama administration. But the opposition media in Argentina can exaggerate the seriousness of this congressional effort (which has almost no chance of becoming law) to try and undermine President Cristina Kirchner's government. It's all smoke and mirrors: an elaborate, well-funded international public relations effort.", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "US Congress", "Global economy", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Vultures circle Argentina | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2009-04-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the eyes of many, Argentina is out of place in the G20. Its GDP may still be among the world's 30 largest, but its financial record this century is, at best, shady, according to the standards of international investors and financial institutions. Those are the same standards, by the way, that allowed for the current international crisis.Even so, the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, is convinced the country can pass on both its experience and economic model to a battered world in need of financial guidance. Almost from the day Lehman Brothers went bust, Kirchner has spoken about how the developing world was peacefully going on with its life when the developed world showed up to complicate everybody's existence with its crisis. As she told the UN General Assembly in September: the world has been hit by \"the Jazz Effect\".When people talk of the biggest crisis in 60 years \u2013 a crisis so big it is leading to the implosion of long-standing financial structures \u2013 Argentinians can nod with the self-assurance of those who know. In 2001, the country suffered a life-changing crisis of its own \u2013 one that ousted presidents, set off months of social upheaval and led to the downfall of an ingrained economic system. The roots of that crisis lay in a model based to the dot on the rules of the market.The recovery started in 2002 under the stewardship of a caretaker president, Eduardo Duhalde, who was replaced in 2003 by Cristina Kirchner's husband, N\u00e9stor. Starting with Duhalde, but mainly under the two consecutive Kirchner administrations, Argentina has gone from financial hubris to the longest period of economic growth in the country's history.The Argentinian presidential couple like to say they set the domestic economy on course by turning a deaf ear to the dictates of the market. There is some truth here: foreign debt was not taken in traditional financial markets; International Monetary Fund officials fortunately lost their say over domestic policies; export taxes on commodities became a key factor in fiscal accounts; and the privatisation frenzy of the neo-liberal 90s was replaced by a number of re-nationalisations, active government intervention in the economy and a \"no worries\" approach towards the size of state. \"Buy Argentinian\" was also promoted, as was a higher participation of value-added products in total exports, and higher salaries. If all this sounds familiar, it is because countries all over the world are working on similar policies now.Kirchner has another strong argument to promote: financial markets cannot form the backbone of the economy. If one of the essential talking points of the London summit is going to be a revamp of the IMF and other financial institutions, then Argentina has a lot to say. It can, after all, offer an example of what life is like without the IMF and ratings agencies.There is another of capitalism's many layers that the Kirchners have sniffed at and G20 members should study. Under their mandates, Argentina has stopped being a government of the kind that is, to quote Amartya Sen, reliant \"only on a profit-maximizing market economy and on personal entitlements confined to private ownership\".However, the Argentinian model is far from being a dependable reference point, for several reasons. First, it has been sustained by an export-friendly currency, hard to concert among all of the world's largest economies. Second, the model has failed to keep inflation on a leash and, in the past two years, to keep poverty rates from increasing. Third, and most important, it is a model that flourished during years of robust trade and a healthy global economy. The current scenario is the opposite, and different recipes will be needed.Also, on the political front, the Kirchner administrations have been plagued by accusations of cronyism. They have suffered the desertion and disillusionment of members who accuse the government of steadily turning to the right and of acting out of instinct rather than reflection. There has also been concern about the political use of public funds.Because of this, the Argentinian experience should be considered as a case study in need of perfection \u2013 and not the holy economic grail the Kirchner administration would have us believe it is.There is one more lesson Argentina may teach the world \u2013 one about \"life after capitalism\", a recurrent theme in op-eds worldwide. It was only three or four years ago that N\u00e9stor Kirchner assailed international financial outfits like the IMF almost on a daily basis. But now the government of his wife \u2013 an administration where he has a strong voice \u2013 is looking for an elegant way to return to the the fund. As Argentinians can tell, the fall of capitalism comes with a lot of stormy winds \u2013 but once they die down, \"life after capitalism\" looks quite similar to life as we know it.", "tags": ["G20", "Argentina", "US news", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "World news", "Global economy", "Business", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: Argentina does belong in the G20, despite what critics say"},{"date": "2009-04-02T16:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Few outside of Argentina remember him, but a good man died yesterday. Raul Alfonsin was the first democratically elected president of the Argentine Republic after seven years of military rule in which over 10,000 Argentinians were \"disappeared\" by the military in a \"Dirty War\" against leftist guerrillas.The guerrilla groups, of whom the most prominent were the Montoneros, were active throughout the 1970s, and they were deadly. Anyone in the military, law enforcement, industry or finance risked being kidnapped or killed. The guerrillas bombed police stations, military barracks and apartment buildings. They were subversives whose ranks included members of normally peaceful occupations: priests, journalists, social workers, students, teachers. No one seemed able to discern who was a nonviolent leftist and who was secretly a violent revolutionary, and unrest spread throughout the country, threatening to devolve into outright civil war. Some Argentinians considered the Montoneros to be idealists, but Raul Alfonsin, a member of the centrist Radical party, never did. He condemned their cruelty and destruction.In 1976, a military junta took control of the country and set about eradicating the guerrillas. The counterterrorist measures taken were of a brutality and magnitude that the country had never seen. The military kidnapped people it suspected of being involved in terrorism, secreting them away to hidden detention centres where they would be interrogated and tortured. Most of those kidnapped were killed, in some cases by being drugged and pushed alive out of airplanes. Mothers, fathers and relatives of people who were disappeared would go to police stations and ministries and courtrooms seeking information on those who had gone missing \u2013 only to be told that no one had any information to give. Fearful of being placed on a target list by the government, most Argentinians fled or kept silent during those terrifying years. But Raul Alfonsin did not, loudly condemning the military government and offering help to families seeking information on their missing loved ones.In 1983, Argentina finally ousted the military dictators and held genuine elections. No one expected Raul Alfonsin, whose Radical party had never enjoyed much public support, to win. But Alfonsin did win. He inherited a country beset by debt, inflation and bitter memories. Argentinians had high hopes that he could pull them out of the morass.Alfonsin wanted to demonstrate to everyone that Argentina was once again a country ruled by laws, and he undertook two important things to put the Dirty War to rest: he assembled a commission to investigate the thousands of disappearances, and he put the leaders of the military junta on trial. Argentinians and observers around the world were shocked by the testimony of survivors, who gave accounts of beatings, electrocution and extrajudicial killings. A list of the missing was compiled and came to over 10,000. The generals were sentenced to prison (as were surviving guerrilla leaders), and Argentina tried to return to normal.But the fight between extreme left and extreme right in Argentina persisted, albeit less violently. Rightists accused leftists of staging the trials of the generals as revenge for having been defeated on the battlefield. Leftists accused the centrists of going too easy on yesterday's torturers and killers. Alfonsin faced rebellions by military fascists and denunciations by neo-Stalinists.Ultimately, as luck would have it, Alfonsin wound up stumbling as a leader for a more mundane and common reason: the economy worsened. He had inherited a budgetary disaster, and Argentinians were willing to be patient while he attempted to address it. In the end, however, Alfonsin shied away from making the choices necessary to set the country on a sustainable economic course, and inflation soared to 200 percent a month. Investment died out almost entirely, as Argentinians devoted all their economic energy to preserving what capital they could salvage. By 1989, Alfonsin had been voted out, and no one seemed to have anything kind to say about him.Politics is unforgiving and unfair, and often scoundrels who have a run of economic good luck are remembered with undue fondness. Juan Peron subverted Argentine democracy in the 1940s and 50s, but he remains beloved by many Argentinians for having raided the national coffers showing everyone a good time. Raul Alfonsin erred on the side of fiscal timidity, but the economy wound up crushing him. His bravery and decency on more fundamental questions \u2013 his adherence to morality and legality in country that had been swept up in evil and illegality \u2013 were insufficiently acknowledged and quickly forgotten while he was in power. But in the years after, people came to appreciate once again what he had done for Argentina and human rights. When a traumatised nation most desperately needed an upright head of state, Alfonsin proved to be the most upright of men.", "tags": ["Argentina", "US news", "World news"], "title": "TA Frank: Raul Alfonsin was the right man for Argentina"},{"date": "2009-04-01T01:43:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Ra\u00fal Alfons\u00edn, whose presidency has come to symbolise the return of democracy across Latin America from an era of military dictatorships, has died.Alfons\u00edn's personal doctor, Alberto Sadler, said the former president died of lung cancer yesterday. He was 82.The presidential inauguration of the leader on 10 December 1983, ended more than seven years of a repressive military regime that left at least 12,000 disappeared.He won an open election that the military was forced to call, in disgrace after the country's defeat in the 1982 war with Britain over the Falkland Islands.His presidency was marked by two milestones: his daring decision to bring to try the leaders of the dictatorship for the human rights violations, and an economic collapse that made him hand power to his successor six month before his term was to end. Inflation had jumped to over 3,000% annually.Few discussed his crucial role in the restoration of democracy at a time military regimen ruled most of South America.In Argentina, he was instrumental in getting several political groups to set aside differences and unite in a loose coalition that paved the way for the 1983 election. He garnered 51.7% of the vote, handing the powerful Peronist party its first election defeat ever.Shortly after entering the Pink House presidential palace, he stunned many by ordering the trial of nine members of the former ruling military junta, on charges ranging from kidnap to torture and disappearance of thousands of people.It was a bold step in a country where the military had dominated for decades, having taken power in six coups in the 20th century.\"I think that some times I take too many risks, because what we did no one had done before,\" he said later of his decision.But he said the trials were needed to restore a strong judicial system and break the destructive cycle of political chaos and military coups that wracked Argentina for a half-century.The trials, unprecedented in Latin America, were conducted by a civilian court and ended in December 1985 with the conviction and imprisonment of five former military rulers, including two ex-presidents. Four others were acquitted.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Argentina's former president, Ra\u00fal Alfons\u00edn, dies"},{"date": "2009-06-09T18:00:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Intergovernmental rivalry is fine on the football pitch but Argentina and Britain are now replaying the Falklands war in the battlefield of the Bonn climate talks.The scene was the subsidiary body for implementation, at issue were the islands' greenhouse gas emissions - which probably amount to just a few tonnes a year - mainly from the back end of sheep.Argentina objected to the UK's inclusion of the \"Islas Malvinas\" in its national communication, citing sovereignty disputes. Britain's diplomats responded tartly that emissions from the Falkland Islands were included \"since the issue of sovereignty was not in doubt\".Eco soundings believes this is the first time that two countries have deliberately tried to increase their emissions.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Eco soundings: England v Argentina in the battle of Bonn"},{"date": "2009-06-05T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the differences between the United States and most other developed countries is that the US Congress can have a foreign policy of its own, and one that does not necessarily coincide with the objectives of the executive branch.This is generally a good thing, since it allows the citizenry to have influence that it does not have in most European countries, and to limit some of the damage that the executive branch is often doing around the world. It was Congress that, under pressure from the anti-war movement, eventually cut funding for the Vietnam war. And in the 1980s a well-organised, mostly religious-based movement pressured Congress to cut off funding for Ronald Reagan's brutal insurgency in Nicaragua.Occasionally, however, individual members of Congress \u2013 representing special interests \u2013 can be an annoyance when the executive is trying to maintain or repair relations with other countries. Such is the case with US-Argentine relations, which fell to a low point during the Bush years, and which President Barack Obama would like to improve. Now comes Eric Massa, a freshman Democratic representative from Corning in the state of New York, introducing legislation on 20 May that would seek to punish Argentina by, among other things, denying the country access to US capital markets.Some background: In December of 2001 the government of Argentina defaulted on about $81bn (plus interest) of its sovereign debt, as a result of a general economic collapse that followed a deep recession. In 2005 about 75% percent of the defaulted bondholders reached an agreement with the government that paid about 30 cents on the dollar. The remainder, with some $19.4bn, held out with the hope of getting more later.The holdouts have a lobby group in Washington, the American Task Force Argentina. It is headed by former Clinton administration officials, who are trying to use Congress to put pressure on Argentina. The lobbyists include vulture fund investors, who buy up defaulted debt at a small fraction of face value and then use lawsuits and other pressure tactics to fight for the face value of the bonds.If there is an injustice in Argentina's default, it is that the IMF \u2013 which had as much responsibility as anyone in the world for the deep recession that pushed half of Argentina's population below the poverty line \u2013 ended up collecting on its loans in full. But that is another, longer story.The fact is that Argentina's default was an unavoidable part of an economic collapse. It was also a necessary precondition for the country's economic recovery, which began just three months after the government stopped payment on its public debt. In just under seven years Argentina's real GDP has grown by 66%, about the best performance in the hemisphere, pulling more than 11 million people out of poverty and reversing much of the damage that was done under IMF tutelage in the prior decade.Argentina's debt before the default was simply unpayable. In the US and most other countries, we have bankruptcy laws that enable a debtor to get out from unpayable debts and start afresh. In the world of sovereign debt, there is as yet no comparable mechanism other than default. Of course, it is quite possible that the Argentine government will reach a settlement with the holdout bondholders, and there has been some movement in that direction in the last year or so. A settlement would restore Argentina's access to international credit markets.Ironically, the moves by Massa and ATFA makes it less likely that such a settlement would be reached, because the vulture funds they represent are playing a different game. They want their pound of flesh. They are gunning for the face value of the bonds and are willing to throw any of the more realistic creditors (among the holdouts) under the bus to get as much as they can. The vultures are therefore undermining other creditors, including current bondholders whose investments are not in jeopardy but would increase in value if Argentina had full access to international credit markets.Who are the constituents that Massa and ATFA represent? A look at 15 bondholders that hold more than $25m each in claims against Argentina shows that nine of them have addresses in the Cayman Islands. One of these is NML Capital Ltd, a vulture fund affiliate of the hedge fund firm Elliot Associates (a member of ATFA), run by founder Paul Singer. According to Bloomberg News, NML Capital bought at least $182m of Argentine debt for 15-30 cents on the dollar. Singer has taken a gamble that paid off in Peru in 2000. He made a 400% profit from the Peruvian government through lawsuits and pressure.The vultures will not get very far with Argentina, where not only the government but the political opposition and the Argentine people overwhelmingly are determined not to surrender to them. But they can make a settlement with the other creditors more difficult and also hope to throw obstacles on the road to better US-Argentine relations. That appears to be the main potential of Massa's bill in Congress, and of course the ATFA lobby group's efforts: to create the false impression that the holdouts' debt is an impediment to improved US-Argentine relations. This is certainly not true for the Obama administration. But the opposition media in Argentina can exaggerate the seriousness of this congressional effort (which has almost no chance of becoming law) to try and undermine President Cristina Kirchner's government. It's all smoke and mirrors: an elaborate, well-funded international public relations effort.", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "US Congress", "Global economy", "US news", "World news", "Obama administration", "US politics"], "title": "Vultures circle Argentina | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2009-04-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the eyes of many, Argentina is out of place in the G20. Its GDP may still be among the world's 30 largest, but its financial record this century is, at best, shady, according to the standards of international investors and financial institutions. Those are the same standards, by the way, that allowed for the current international crisis.Even so, the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, is convinced the country can pass on both its experience and economic model to a battered world in need of financial guidance. Almost from the day Lehman Brothers went bust, Kirchner has spoken about how the developing world was peacefully going on with its life when the developed world showed up to complicate everybody's existence with its crisis. As she told the UN General Assembly in September: the world has been hit by \"the Jazz Effect\".When people talk of the biggest crisis in 60 years \u2013 a crisis so big it is leading to the implosion of long-standing financial structures \u2013 Argentinians can nod with the self-assurance of those who know. In 2001, the country suffered a life-changing crisis of its own \u2013 one that ousted presidents, set off months of social upheaval and led to the downfall of an ingrained economic system. The roots of that crisis lay in a model based to the dot on the rules of the market.The recovery started in 2002 under the stewardship of a caretaker president, Eduardo Duhalde, who was replaced in 2003 by Cristina Kirchner's husband, N\u00e9stor. Starting with Duhalde, but mainly under the two consecutive Kirchner administrations, Argentina has gone from financial hubris to the longest period of economic growth in the country's history.The Argentinian presidential couple like to say they set the domestic economy on course by turning a deaf ear to the dictates of the market. There is some truth here: foreign debt was not taken in traditional financial markets; International Monetary Fund officials fortunately lost their say over domestic policies; export taxes on commodities became a key factor in fiscal accounts; and the privatisation frenzy of the neo-liberal 90s was replaced by a number of re-nationalisations, active government intervention in the economy and a \"no worries\" approach towards the size of state. \"Buy Argentinian\" was also promoted, as was a higher participation of value-added products in total exports, and higher salaries. If all this sounds familiar, it is because countries all over the world are working on similar policies now.Kirchner has another strong argument to promote: financial markets cannot form the backbone of the economy. If one of the essential talking points of the London summit is going to be a revamp of the IMF and other financial institutions, then Argentina has a lot to say. It can, after all, offer an example of what life is like without the IMF and ratings agencies.There is another of capitalism's many layers that the Kirchners have sniffed at and G20 members should study. Under their mandates, Argentina has stopped being a government of the kind that is, to quote Amartya Sen, reliant \"only on a profit-maximizing market economy and on personal entitlements confined to private ownership\".However, the Argentinian model is far from being a dependable reference point, for several reasons. First, it has been sustained by an export-friendly currency, hard to concert among all of the world's largest economies. Second, the model has failed to keep inflation on a leash and, in the past two years, to keep poverty rates from increasing. Third, and most important, it is a model that flourished during years of robust trade and a healthy global economy. The current scenario is the opposite, and different recipes will be needed.Also, on the political front, the Kirchner administrations have been plagued by accusations of cronyism. They have suffered the desertion and disillusionment of members who accuse the government of steadily turning to the right and of acting out of instinct rather than reflection. There has also been concern about the political use of public funds.Because of this, the Argentinian experience should be considered as a case study in need of perfection \u2013 and not the holy economic grail the Kirchner administration would have us believe it is.There is one more lesson Argentina may teach the world \u2013 one about \"life after capitalism\", a recurrent theme in op-eds worldwide. It was only three or four years ago that N\u00e9stor Kirchner assailed international financial outfits like the IMF almost on a daily basis. But now the government of his wife \u2013 an administration where he has a strong voice \u2013 is looking for an elegant way to return to the the fund. As Argentinians can tell, the fall of capitalism comes with a lot of stormy winds \u2013 but once they die down, \"life after capitalism\" looks quite similar to life as we know it.", "tags": ["G20", "Argentina", "US news", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "World news", "Global economy", "Business", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Rodrigo Orihuela: Argentina does belong in the G20, despite what critics say"},{"date": "2009-04-02T16:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Few outside of Argentina remember him, but a good man died yesterday. Raul Alfonsin was the first democratically elected president of the Argentine Republic after seven years of military rule in which over 10,000 Argentinians were \"disappeared\" by the military in a \"Dirty War\" against leftist guerrillas.The guerrilla groups, of whom the most prominent were the Montoneros, were active throughout the 1970s, and they were deadly. Anyone in the military, law enforcement, industry or finance risked being kidnapped or killed. The guerrillas bombed police stations, military barracks and apartment buildings. They were subversives whose ranks included members of normally peaceful occupations: priests, journalists, social workers, students, teachers. No one seemed able to discern who was a nonviolent leftist and who was secretly a violent revolutionary, and unrest spread throughout the country, threatening to devolve into outright civil war. Some Argentinians considered the Montoneros to be idealists, but Raul Alfonsin, a member of the centrist Radical party, never did. He condemned their cruelty and destruction.In 1976, a military junta took control of the country and set about eradicating the guerrillas. The counterterrorist measures taken were of a brutality and magnitude that the country had never seen. The military kidnapped people it suspected of being involved in terrorism, secreting them away to hidden detention centres where they would be interrogated and tortured. Most of those kidnapped were killed, in some cases by being drugged and pushed alive out of airplanes. Mothers, fathers and relatives of people who were disappeared would go to police stations and ministries and courtrooms seeking information on those who had gone missing \u2013 only to be told that no one had any information to give. Fearful of being placed on a target list by the government, most Argentinians fled or kept silent during those terrifying years. But Raul Alfonsin did not, loudly condemning the military government and offering help to families seeking information on their missing loved ones.In 1983, Argentina finally ousted the military dictators and held genuine elections. No one expected Raul Alfonsin, whose Radical party had never enjoyed much public support, to win. But Alfonsin did win. He inherited a country beset by debt, inflation and bitter memories. Argentinians had high hopes that he could pull them out of the morass.Alfonsin wanted to demonstrate to everyone that Argentina was once again a country ruled by laws, and he undertook two important things to put the Dirty War to rest: he assembled a commission to investigate the thousands of disappearances, and he put the leaders of the military junta on trial. Argentinians and observers around the world were shocked by the testimony of survivors, who gave accounts of beatings, electrocution and extrajudicial killings. A list of the missing was compiled and came to over 10,000. The generals were sentenced to prison (as were surviving guerrilla leaders), and Argentina tried to return to normal.But the fight between extreme left and extreme right in Argentina persisted, albeit less violently. Rightists accused leftists of staging the trials of the generals as revenge for having been defeated on the battlefield. Leftists accused the centrists of going too easy on yesterday's torturers and killers. Alfonsin faced rebellions by military fascists and denunciations by neo-Stalinists.Ultimately, as luck would have it, Alfonsin wound up stumbling as a leader for a more mundane and common reason: the economy worsened. He had inherited a budgetary disaster, and Argentinians were willing to be patient while he attempted to address it. In the end, however, Alfonsin shied away from making the choices necessary to set the country on a sustainable economic course, and inflation soared to 200 percent a month. Investment died out almost entirely, as Argentinians devoted all their economic energy to preserving what capital they could salvage. By 1989, Alfonsin had been voted out, and no one seemed to have anything kind to say about him.Politics is unforgiving and unfair, and often scoundrels who have a run of economic good luck are remembered with undue fondness. Juan Peron subverted Argentine democracy in the 1940s and 50s, but he remains beloved by many Argentinians for having raided the national coffers showing everyone a good time. Raul Alfonsin erred on the side of fiscal timidity, but the economy wound up crushing him. His bravery and decency on more fundamental questions \u2013 his adherence to morality and legality in country that had been swept up in evil and illegality \u2013 were insufficiently acknowledged and quickly forgotten while he was in power. But in the years after, people came to appreciate once again what he had done for Argentina and human rights. When a traumatised nation most desperately needed an upright head of state, Alfonsin proved to be the most upright of men.", "tags": ["Argentina", "US news", "World news"], "title": "TA Frank: Raul Alfonsin was the right man for Argentina"},{"date": "2009-04-01T01:43:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Ra\u00fal Alfons\u00edn, whose presidency has come to symbolise the return of democracy across Latin America from an era of military dictatorships, has died.Alfons\u00edn's personal doctor, Alberto Sadler, said the former president died of lung cancer yesterday. He was 82.The presidential inauguration of the leader on 10 December 1983, ended more than seven years of a repressive military regime that left at least 12,000 disappeared.He won an open election that the military was forced to call, in disgrace after the country's defeat in the 1982 war with Britain over the Falkland Islands.His presidency was marked by two milestones: his daring decision to bring to try the leaders of the dictatorship for the human rights violations, and an economic collapse that made him hand power to his successor six month before his term was to end. Inflation had jumped to over 3,000% annually.Few discussed his crucial role in the restoration of democracy at a time military regimen ruled most of South America.In Argentina, he was instrumental in getting several political groups to set aside differences and unite in a loose coalition that paved the way for the 1983 election. He garnered 51.7% of the vote, handing the powerful Peronist party its first election defeat ever.Shortly after entering the Pink House presidential palace, he stunned many by ordering the trial of nine members of the former ruling military junta, on charges ranging from kidnap to torture and disappearance of thousands of people.It was a bold step in a country where the military had dominated for decades, having taken power in six coups in the 20th century.\"I think that some times I take too many risks, because what we did no one had done before,\" he said later of his decision.But he said the trials were needed to restore a strong judicial system and break the destructive cycle of political chaos and military coups that wracked Argentina for a half-century.The trials, unprecedented in Latin America, were conducted by a civilian court and ended in December 1985 with the conviction and imprisonment of five former military rulers, including two ex-presidents. Four others were acquitted.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Argentina's former president, Ra\u00fal Alfons\u00edn, dies"},{"date": "2009-06-09T18:00:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Intergovernmental rivalry is fine on the football pitch but Argentina and Britain are now replaying the Falklands war in the battlefield of the Bonn climate talks.The scene was the subsidiary body for implementation, at issue were the islands' greenhouse gas emissions - which probably amount to just a few tonnes a year - mainly from the back end of sheep.Argentina objected to the UK's inclusion of the \"Islas Malvinas\" in its national communication, citing sovereignty disputes. Britain's diplomats responded tartly that emissions from the Falkland Islands were included \"since the issue of sovereignty was not in doubt\".Eco soundings believes this is the first time that two countries have deliberately tried to increase their emissions.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Eco soundings: England v Argentina in the battle of Bonn"},{"date": "2009-06-14T17:40:31Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Falkland Islands government has accused Argentina of waging a campaign of \"economic warfare\" against it.Speaking on the 27th anniversary of the end of the Falklands war, Mike Summers, a member of the Falkland Islands legislative assembly, said Argentina is deliberately hampering the islands' three main industries of fishing, tourism and oil and gas exploration.He said the British overseas territory's economic development is being held back by Argentinian policies aimed at forcing the islands to accept claims of Argentinian sovereignty. The Falkland Islands, or Las Malvinas, as the archipelago is known in Argentina, has a population of around 3,000 people and an annual income of \u00a375m. But the islands' government believes the affluence of its inhabitants is being deliberately held back by Argentina.Summers complained that Argentina has withdrawn from a commission to manage fisheries, which provide the bulk of the island's income, which means fish stocks may be seriously damaged; that Argentina has stopped charter planes travelling from Chile to the Falklands by banning them from using Argentinian airspace which has damaged the cruise ship industry; and the hydrocarbon business has been hit by a presidential decree from Buenos Aires that prevents anyone who works in the hydrocarbon industry in Argentina from doing the same in the Falklands.\"We don't have good relations,\" Summers said. \"They are taking an economic warfare approach. It has created tension between the Falklands and Argentina. Economic development could be improved if we got on better. While the clear stated intention of the Argentines is to take over the Falklands whether we like it or not, we can't cooperate better.\" The block on charter flights from Chile to the Falklands means cruise ship passengers and crew cannot easily reach the islands and this is hampering the ability of the islands to capitalise on the growing south Atlantic cruise ship business.A spokesman for Argentina's foreign ministry said the measures would remain in place until Britain agrees to resume talks over Argentina's claim of sovereignty.\"We have taken these measures because we have to preserve our position and our resources in the region,\" the spokesman said. \"We are not intending to harm the islanders.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Falkland islanders say Argentina is waging economic warfare"},{"date": "2009-08-05T18:38:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Deaths from swine flu in Argentina have more than doubled to 337 in the past month, a rate which could see it soon overtake the United States as the worst affected country.Figures released today showed a dramatic surge in deaths from the 137 reported on 14 July, according to the health ministry, though authorities believe the epidemic has peaked and will ebb with the passing of the southern hemisphere's winter.Another 400 deaths are being studied as suspected cases of A(H1N1) swine-type flu.\"We have to say that given the epidemiological tendency it is very probable that the majority of those 400 deaths are from H1N1,\" said the deputy health minister, Maximo Diosque.Swine flu had almost completely replaced normal seasonal flu, he added. Of 762,711 cases more than 700,000 - 93% - were swine flu.Argentina now accounts for about a quarter of the world's reported death toll. If most of the suspected cases are confirmed as A(H1N1) the South American nation will overtake the US, which hcurrently has 353 confirmed deaths.Argentina's neighbours have reported much lower fatalities: Chile 96; Brasil 92; Uruguay 25; and Paraguay 22. Mexico, which first reported the outbreak, has registered 146 deaths.Today's announcement was another setback for Argentina's faltering econonomy. Tourism revenues have reportedly halved, with restaurants, theatres, tango halls and Patagonian ski resorts unusually quiet. Buenos Aires alone has lost \u00a3600m, according to its small business association.Despite the death toll, authorities expressed optimism the worst was over. The epidemic spread so widely that by now there are now thought to be fewer vulnerable people left to infect. The numbers reporting flu symptoms have steadily dropped and beds have again become available in clinics and hospitals.Restrictions introduced last month have been lifted. Schools, universities, cinemas, theatres and gymnasiums have re-opened and fewer people are wearing surgical masks.The Catholic church had urged worshippers to sit far apart and to avoid handshakes during mass. Doctors advised people to not greet each other with a kiss and to not share mate, a herbal drink traditionally drunk from a straw and passed between friends.It was not immediately clear if the updated death toll would prompt renewed restrictions. The good news from Argentina is that its strain has not mutated and turned especially deadly. Genetic sequencing shows its swine flu remains virtually identical to the strain seen in Mexico and the US, boosting chances that a single vaccine can work everywhere.Medical experts have been relieved to see no signs of resistance to antiviral drugs even though the government distributed 2m courses of Tamiflu free to public hospitals. That suggests the drug will remain effective in northern hemisphere countries bracing for winter.The British Foreign Office's travel advice, updated last month, does not urge Britons to stay away but warns that there is a risk of infection and financial cost. \"Medical facilities are good, but can be expensive.\"Brazil's government has advised against travel to Argentina and Chile.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Swine flu", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Flu", "Health & wellbeing", "Epidemics"], "title": "Argentina swine flu deaths double to 337"},{"date": "2009-08-05T18:38:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Deaths from swine flu in Argentina have more than doubled to 337 in the past month, a rate which could see it soon overtake the United States as the worst affected country.Figures released today showed a dramatic surge in deaths from the 137 reported on 14 July, according to the health ministry, though authorities believe the epidemic has peaked and will ebb with the passing of the southern hemisphere's winter.Another 400 deaths are being studied as suspected cases of A(H1N1) swine-type flu.\"We have to say that given the epidemiological tendency it is very probable that the majority of those 400 deaths are from H1N1,\" said the deputy health minister, Maximo Diosque.Swine flu had almost completely replaced normal seasonal flu, he added. Of 762,711 cases more than 700,000 - 93% - were swine flu.Argentina now accounts for about a quarter of the world's reported death toll. If most of the suspected cases are confirmed as A(H1N1) the South American nation will overtake the US, which hcurrently has 353 confirmed deaths.Argentina's neighbours have reported much lower fatalities: Chile 96; Brasil 92; Uruguay 25; and Paraguay 22. Mexico, which first reported the outbreak, has registered 146 deaths.Today's announcement was another setback for Argentina's faltering econonomy. Tourism revenues have reportedly halved, with restaurants, theatres, tango halls and Patagonian ski resorts unusually quiet. Buenos Aires alone has lost \u00a3600m, according to its small business association.Despite the death toll, authorities expressed optimism the worst was over. The epidemic spread so widely that by now there are now thought to be fewer vulnerable people left to infect. The numbers reporting flu symptoms have steadily dropped and beds have again become available in clinics and hospitals.Restrictions introduced last month have been lifted. Schools, universities, cinemas, theatres and gymnasiums have re-opened and fewer people are wearing surgical masks.The Catholic church had urged worshippers to sit far apart and to avoid handshakes during mass. Doctors advised people to not greet each other with a kiss and to not share mate, a herbal drink traditionally drunk from a straw and passed between friends.It was not immediately clear if the updated death toll would prompt renewed restrictions. The good news from Argentina is that its strain has not mutated and turned especially deadly. Genetic sequencing shows its swine flu remains virtually identical to the strain seen in Mexico and the US, boosting chances that a single vaccine can work everywhere.Medical experts have been relieved to see no signs of resistance to antiviral drugs even though the government distributed 2m courses of Tamiflu free to public hospitals. That suggests the drug will remain effective in northern hemisphere countries bracing for winter.The British Foreign Office's travel advice, updated last month, does not urge Britons to stay away but warns that there is a risk of infection and financial cost. \"Medical facilities are good, but can be expensive.\"Brazil's government has advised against travel to Argentina and Chile.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Swine flu", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Flu", "Health & wellbeing", "Epidemics"], "title": "Argentina swine flu deaths double to 337"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-08-05T18:38:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Deaths from swine flu in Argentina have more than doubled to 337 in the past month, a rate which could see it soon overtake the United States as the worst affected country.Figures released today showed a dramatic surge in deaths from the 137 reported on 14 July, according to the health ministry, though authorities believe the epidemic has peaked and will ebb with the passing of the southern hemisphere's winter.Another 400 deaths are being studied as suspected cases of A(H1N1) swine-type flu.\"We have to say that given the epidemiological tendency it is very probable that the majority of those 400 deaths are from H1N1,\" said the deputy health minister, Maximo Diosque.Swine flu had almost completely replaced normal seasonal flu, he added. Of 762,711 cases more than 700,000 - 93% - were swine flu.Argentina now accounts for about a quarter of the world's reported death toll. If most of the suspected cases are confirmed as A(H1N1) the South American nation will overtake the US, which hcurrently has 353 confirmed deaths.Argentina's neighbours have reported much lower fatalities: Chile 96; Brasil 92; Uruguay 25; and Paraguay 22. Mexico, which first reported the outbreak, has registered 146 deaths.Today's announcement was another setback for Argentina's faltering econonomy. Tourism revenues have reportedly halved, with restaurants, theatres, tango halls and Patagonian ski resorts unusually quiet. Buenos Aires alone has lost \u00a3600m, according to its small business association.Despite the death toll, authorities expressed optimism the worst was over. The epidemic spread so widely that by now there are now thought to be fewer vulnerable people left to infect. The numbers reporting flu symptoms have steadily dropped and beds have again become available in clinics and hospitals.Restrictions introduced last month have been lifted. Schools, universities, cinemas, theatres and gymnasiums have re-opened and fewer people are wearing surgical masks.The Catholic church had urged worshippers to sit far apart and to avoid handshakes during mass. Doctors advised people to not greet each other with a kiss and to not share mate, a herbal drink traditionally drunk from a straw and passed between friends.It was not immediately clear if the updated death toll would prompt renewed restrictions. The good news from Argentina is that its strain has not mutated and turned especially deadly. Genetic sequencing shows its swine flu remains virtually identical to the strain seen in Mexico and the US, boosting chances that a single vaccine can work everywhere.Medical experts have been relieved to see no signs of resistance to antiviral drugs even though the government distributed 2m courses of Tamiflu free to public hospitals. That suggests the drug will remain effective in northern hemisphere countries bracing for winter.The British Foreign Office's travel advice, updated last month, does not urge Britons to stay away but warns that there is a risk of infection and financial cost. \"Medical facilities are good, but can be expensive.\"Brazil's government has advised against travel to Argentina and Chile.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Swine flu", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Flu", "Health & wellbeing", "Epidemics"], "title": "Argentina swine flu deaths double to 337"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-08-20T15:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine football establishment is experiencing one of its biggest ever schisms and breaking new ground in the global business of 21st-century sport with a deal between the local FA and the government to ensure that all domestic top flight matches can be broadcast for free by any national television channel wishing to do so.The deal puts an end to 18 years of exclusive broadcast rights by Televisi\u00f3n Satelital Codificada (TSC) and is expected to cost the administration \u00a394.5m a year. The FA and the government say the deal is necessary to end TSC's monopoly over local football broadcasts. The events that resulted in the deal were unleashed in early August when the footballers' union filed complaints requesting the suspension of all teams with overdue salary payments. The total debt claimed by the union is around \u00a36.4m, a third of which corresponds to top division teams \u2013 paltry sums by international and domestic football standards. The complaints forced a delay to the start of the season, with opening day being moved from 14 August to 21 August - an announcement that led to rioting in Buenos Aires.Overdue salaries are part of Argentine footballing lore. Local football officials are mostly terrible at administrating the accounts of their clubs, which are non-profits run by members \u2013 much like Real Madrid and Barcelona. Officials are rarely made accountable for mismanagement by either the FA, the clubs themselves or courts.All teams would have disappeared long-ago if they had been made to comply to the financial regulations used on business firms. This applies even to well-managed institutions like Boca, V\u00e9lez, Lan\u00fas and Estudiantes, who may be in the black now but have spent their share of time in the red as well. Desperate to obtain cash to cancel their debts, club officials did what they almost always do: beg help from Julio Grondona, who has chaired the FA as if it were a one-man-show since his election in 1979. Grondona is one of most important men in world football. He is both Fifa's senior vice-president and that head of its finance committee \u2013 a striking job given his record stewarding Argentine football financially over the past 30 years. It is in part because of his power in the international scene that Fifa, usually averse to seeing governments mingle in its business, has not complained about the Argentine administration's intervention in the new television deal.Once the club directors requested his help, Grondona in turn did what he has done for years: go to TSC and ask for cash advancements over future contracts \u2013 money he would subsequently distribute among clubs. TSC offered a \u00a37.08m advance, but the clubs rejected the offer, saying they wanted a \"better and more permanent solution\", and demanded twice the total \u00a342.63m the FA was entitled to annually over the upcoming six years.Grondona simultaneously sought a second alternative to improve the clubs' finances by asking the government to condone the clubs' tax debts \u2013 a total of \u00a314.64m. This was when the government leaped at the opportunity to push its own agenda.TSC has held exclusive rights over FA organised football since 1991, and in 2007 Grondona extended the contract until 2014. TSC has two shareholders: Argentina's leading sports channel, TyC, and Grupo Clar\u00edn, the largest media group in the country, who own cable television operators, free-to-air broadcasters, radios, newspapers and internet providers. Before 1991, TyC had been the major holder of domestic football television rights. Negotiations with TSC were always managed personally by Grondona and far from the public eye. \"Monopoly\" has been a term tirelessly used to describe TSC's stronghold on the game, and the label hardly seems exaggerated. The firm regularly intervened in regular programming to fit the need of TV ratings.The administration has used this idea of a monopoly in its drive against TSC and says \"everybody has a right to watch football\". One can only wonder why such a right has never been included in the Human Rights charter.The truth is that Clar\u00edn and the two consecutive Kirchner administrations have always had a complicated relationship, which is getting sourer by the day. The government accuses the media group of opposing its policies and is seeking a way to curtail its power. Snatching football from it is a major step in this direction.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Football", "Media", "US news", "World news"], "title": "In Argentina, football is finally free | Rodrigo Orihuela"},{"date": "2009-08-05T18:38:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Deaths from swine flu in Argentina have more than doubled to 337 in the past month, a rate which could see it soon overtake the United States as the worst affected country.Figures released today showed a dramatic surge in deaths from the 137 reported on 14 July, according to the health ministry, though authorities believe the epidemic has peaked and will ebb with the passing of the southern hemisphere's winter.Another 400 deaths are being studied as suspected cases of A(H1N1) swine-type flu.\"We have to say that given the epidemiological tendency it is very probable that the majority of those 400 deaths are from H1N1,\" said the deputy health minister, Maximo Diosque.Swine flu had almost completely replaced normal seasonal flu, he added. Of 762,711 cases more than 700,000 - 93% - were swine flu.Argentina now accounts for about a quarter of the world's reported death toll. If most of the suspected cases are confirmed as A(H1N1) the South American nation will overtake the US, which hcurrently has 353 confirmed deaths.Argentina's neighbours have reported much lower fatalities: Chile 96; Brasil 92; Uruguay 25; and Paraguay 22. Mexico, which first reported the outbreak, has registered 146 deaths.Today's announcement was another setback for Argentina's faltering econonomy. Tourism revenues have reportedly halved, with restaurants, theatres, tango halls and Patagonian ski resorts unusually quiet. Buenos Aires alone has lost \u00a3600m, according to its small business association.Despite the death toll, authorities expressed optimism the worst was over. The epidemic spread so widely that by now there are now thought to be fewer vulnerable people left to infect. The numbers reporting flu symptoms have steadily dropped and beds have again become available in clinics and hospitals.Restrictions introduced last month have been lifted. Schools, universities, cinemas, theatres and gymnasiums have re-opened and fewer people are wearing surgical masks.The Catholic church had urged worshippers to sit far apart and to avoid handshakes during mass. Doctors advised people to not greet each other with a kiss and to not share mate, a herbal drink traditionally drunk from a straw and passed between friends.It was not immediately clear if the updated death toll would prompt renewed restrictions. The good news from Argentina is that its strain has not mutated and turned especially deadly. Genetic sequencing shows its swine flu remains virtually identical to the strain seen in Mexico and the US, boosting chances that a single vaccine can work everywhere.Medical experts have been relieved to see no signs of resistance to antiviral drugs even though the government distributed 2m courses of Tamiflu free to public hospitals. That suggests the drug will remain effective in northern hemisphere countries bracing for winter.The British Foreign Office's travel advice, updated last month, does not urge Britons to stay away but warns that there is a risk of infection and financial cost. \"Medical facilities are good, but can be expensive.\"Brazil's government has advised against travel to Argentina and Chile.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Swine flu", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Flu", "Health & wellbeing", "Epidemics"], "title": "Argentina swine flu deaths double to 337"},{"date": "2009-08-31T13:07:54Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina and Mexico have taken significant steps towards decriminalising drugs amid a growing Latin American backlash against the US-sponsored \"war on drugs\".Argentina's supreme court has ruled it unconstitutional to punish people for using marijuana for personal consumption, an eagerly awaited judgment that gave the government the green light to push for further liberalisation.It followed Mexico's decision to stop prosecuting people for possession of relatively small quantities of marijuana, cocaine, heroin and other drugs. Instead, they will be referred to clinics and treated as patients, not criminals.Brazil and Ecuador are also considering partial decriminalisation as part of a regional swing away from a decades-old policy of crackdowns still favoured by Washington.\"The tide is clearly turning. The 'war on drugs' strategy has failed,\" Fernando Henrique Cardoso, a former Brazilian president, told the Guardian. Earlier this year, he and two former presidents of Colombia and Mexico published a landmark report calling for a new departure.\"The report of the Latin American Commission on Drugs and Democracy has certainly helped to open up the debate about more humane and efficient policies. But, most of all, the facts are speaking by themselves,\" said Cardoso.Reform campaigners have long argued that criminalisation enriched drug cartels, fuelled savage turf wars, corrupted state institutions and filled prisons with addicts who presented no real threat to society.The US used its considerable influence to keep Latin America and the UN wedded to hardline policies which kept the focus on interdictions and jail sentences for consumers as well as dealers. The \"war\" was first declared by the Nixon administration.The economic and social cost, plus European moves towards liberalisation, have emboldened some Latin American states to try new approaches.Argentina's supreme court, presented with a case about youths arrested with a few joints, ruled last week that such behaviour did not violate the constitution. \"Each adult is free to make lifestyle decisions without the intervention of the state,\" it said.The government, which favours decriminalisation, is expected to amend laws in light of the ruling. The court stressed, however, that it was not approving complete decriminalisation, a move that would be fiercely resisted by the Catholic church and other groups.The previous week the government of Mexico, which has endured horrific drug-related violence, made it no longer an offence to possess 0.5g of cocaine (the equivalent of about four lines), 5g of marijuana (about four joints), 50mg of heroin and 40mg of methamphetamine.Three years ago, Mexico backtracked on similar legislation after the initiative triggered howls of outrage in the US and predictions that Canc\u00fan and other resorts would become world centres of narcotics tourism.Now, however, the authorities quietly say they need to free up resources and jail space for a military-led war on the drug cartels, even while publicly justifying that offensive to the Mexican public with the slogan \"to stop the drugs reaching your children\". They also argue corrupt police officers will be deterred from extorting money from drug users.Washington did not protest against the announcement, which was kept deliberately low key. \"They made no fanfare so as not to arouse the ire of the US,\" said Walter McKay, of the Mexico City-based Institute for Security and Democracy. \"I predict that when the US sees its nightmare has not come true and that there is no narco-tourist boom it will come under more pressure to legalise or decriminalise.\"Some US states have decriminalised the possession of small amounts of marijuana and the Obama administration has emphasised public health solutions to drug abuse, giving Latin America more breathing room, said Kasia Malinowska-Sempruch, director of the Global Drug Policy Programme. \"My hope is that Latin America will be the next region, after most of Europe, where evidence and science will be the basis for policy-making.\"Argentina and Mexico's moves may encourage other governments to follow suit. A new law has been mooted in Ecuador, where President Rafael Correa last year pardoned 1,500 \"mules\" who had been sentenced to jail. His late father was a convicted mule.Brazil's supreme court, as well as elements in Congress and the justice ministry, favour decriminalising possession of small quantities of drugs, said Maria L\u00facia Karam, a former judge who has joined the advocacy group Law Enforcement Against Prohibition.She welcomed the moves towards decriminalisation but said repression remained a cornerstone of drug policy. \"Unfortunately the 'war on drugs' mentality is still the dominant policy approach in Latin America. The only way to reduce violence in Mexico, Brazil or anywhere else is to legalise the production, supply and consumption of all drugs.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Argentina", "Mexico", "Drugs trade", "Law", "Americas"], "title": "Mexico and Argentina move towards decriminalising drugs"},{"date": "2009-08-20T15:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentine football establishment is experiencing one of its biggest ever schisms and breaking new ground in the global business of 21st-century sport with a deal between the local FA and the government to ensure that all domestic top flight matches can be broadcast for free by any national television channel wishing to do so.The deal puts an end to 18 years of exclusive broadcast rights by Televisi\u00f3n Satelital Codificada (TSC) and is expected to cost the administration \u00a394.5m a year. The FA and the government say the deal is necessary to end TSC's monopoly over local football broadcasts. The events that resulted in the deal were unleashed in early August when the footballers' union filed complaints requesting the suspension of all teams with overdue salary payments. The total debt claimed by the union is around \u00a36.4m, a third of which corresponds to top division teams \u2013 paltry sums by international and domestic football standards. The complaints forced a delay to the start of the season, with opening day being moved from 14 August to 21 August - an announcement that led to rioting in Buenos Aires.Overdue salaries are part of Argentine footballing lore. Local football officials are mostly terrible at administrating the accounts of their clubs, which are non-profits run by members \u2013 much like Real Madrid and Barcelona. Officials are rarely made accountable for mismanagement by either the FA, the clubs themselves or courts.All teams would have disappeared long-ago if they had been made to comply to the financial regulations used on business firms. This applies even to well-managed institutions like Boca, V\u00e9lez, Lan\u00fas and Estudiantes, who may be in the black now but have spent their share of time in the red as well. Desperate to obtain cash to cancel their debts, club officials did what they almost always do: beg help from Julio Grondona, who has chaired the FA as if it were a one-man-show since his election in 1979. Grondona is one of most important men in world football. He is both Fifa's senior vice-president and that head of its finance committee \u2013 a striking job given his record stewarding Argentine football financially over the past 30 years. It is in part because of his power in the international scene that Fifa, usually averse to seeing governments mingle in its business, has not complained about the Argentine administration's intervention in the new television deal.Once the club directors requested his help, Grondona in turn did what he has done for years: go to TSC and ask for cash advancements over future contracts \u2013 money he would subsequently distribute among clubs. TSC offered a \u00a37.08m advance, but the clubs rejected the offer, saying they wanted a \"better and more permanent solution\", and demanded twice the total \u00a342.63m the FA was entitled to annually over the upcoming six years.Grondona simultaneously sought a second alternative to improve the clubs' finances by asking the government to condone the clubs' tax debts \u2013 a total of \u00a314.64m. This was when the government leaped at the opportunity to push its own agenda.TSC has held exclusive rights over FA organised football since 1991, and in 2007 Grondona extended the contract until 2014. TSC has two shareholders: Argentina's leading sports channel, TyC, and Grupo Clar\u00edn, the largest media group in the country, who own cable television operators, free-to-air broadcasters, radios, newspapers and internet providers. Before 1991, TyC had been the major holder of domestic football television rights. Negotiations with TSC were always managed personally by Grondona and far from the public eye. \"Monopoly\" has been a term tirelessly used to describe TSC's stronghold on the game, and the label hardly seems exaggerated. The firm regularly intervened in regular programming to fit the need of TV ratings.The administration has used this idea of a monopoly in its drive against TSC and says \"everybody has a right to watch football\". One can only wonder why such a right has never been included in the Human Rights charter.The truth is that Clar\u00edn and the two consecutive Kirchner administrations have always had a complicated relationship, which is getting sourer by the day. The government accuses the media group of opposing its policies and is seeking a way to curtail its power. Snatching football from it is a major step in this direction.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Football", "Media", "US news", "World news"], "title": "In Argentina, football is finally free | Rodrigo Orihuela"},{"date": "2009-08-28T16:41:59Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Manu Chao is famous for blending musical styles but even for him his latest album is a departure: a collaboration with psychiatric patients who run an Argentine radio station called Radio Loony.The Spanish-French singer recorded the album in Jose Borda, a psychiatric hospital in Buenos Aires which is home to Radio La Colifata, a name derived from slang for lunatic.The album, Viva La Colifata!, features 20 songs about life, love, loneliness, death, sunshine, mothers and the end of the world. It mixes some old Chao tunes with mostly new material from the singer and patients, including poetry and improvisations. The idea, according to the publicity blurb, is to \"laugh, cry and meditate about life\".The album is available for free download at VivaLaColifata.org, a website launched by Chao and the radio station, but people are asked to make a donation to help the hospital's pioneering approach to treating mental illness.Launched in 1991 as a way to give patients a voice, the station's eclectic amalgam of chat, jokes, music and poetry became a hit and reached 12 million people in Argentina's capital. Chao, 48, who promotes leftist causes and sings in French, Spanish, English and Arabic, became involved in Radio La Colifata a decade ago after reading an article in a French newspaper. He visited the crumbling monolithic building, befriended patients, hosted music workshops and developed the idea of making an album.The American country singer Johnny Cash recorded a classic live album at Folsom prison in 1968 but Chao is believed to be the first star to record at a psychiatric hospital. Alfredo Olivera, the station's director and founder, said the relationship was based on mutual respect and confidence. \"The process was very positive, not only because it tackled the social stigma of mental illness.. but because it helped people leave the hospital and develop their own autonomy,\" he told the BBC.The visiting celebrity knew how to engage the patients, said Olivera: \"He is not a psychologist or a psychiatrist but he knows how to listen to the rhythm of each person.\"Chuao, who founded the group Mano Negra before finding solo success with albums such as Clandestino, said he learned \"lucid lessons\" from his collaborators. He said: \"I also learned to synthesise things with fewer words, clearer words.\"", "tags": ["Music", "Argentina", "Culture", "Mental health", "Society", "World news", "Manu Chao"], "title": "Singer Manu Chao teams up with psychiatric patients in Argentina"},{"date": "2010-03-09T12:23:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The critics may have been expecting a win for Jacques Audiard's A Prophet or Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon, but victory for Argentina's El Secreto de Sus Ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes) in the foreign language section at Sunday night's Oscars has reportedly sent the South American nation into raptures.The Oscars, broadcast there in the early hours of Monday morning, was yesterday's most-watched television programme, and newspapers scurried to print second editions carrying the country's win on their front pages. Throughout the day, news programmes continued to report on the victory and the reaction to it.Juan Jos\u00e9 Campanella's thriller, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is set in Buenos Aires in 1999. It centres on a retired investigator trying to solve the 1974 rape and murder of a woman, and highlights the turbulent nature of Argentina in the 1970s, a period in which the country was controlled mainly by military dictatorships.The Secret in Their Eyes emerged as victor despite the high-profile nature of some of its competitors. Audiard's gangster flick had taken the Grand Prix at Cannes, as well as a foreign language Bafta, while Haneke's austere black-and-white drama took the Palme D'Or at Cannes and the foreign language Golden Globe.\"This is a historic moment,\" veteran actor Guillermo Francella, a member of the film's cast, said following the victory. \"The people felt it personally, which is why there is so much joy in Argentina.\"\"It was really miraculous because the films they were competing against were excellent,\" said Ricardo Dar\u00edn, who plays the lead role of detective Benjam\u00edn Esposito.Earlier this year The Secret in Their Eyes became the second most successful film in the history of its country at the box office, surpassed only by Leonardo Favio's 1975 classic, Nazareno Cruz y el lobo (Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf). It had already taken the best Hispanic-American film prize at the Goyas, ahead of Peruvian rival The Milk of Sorrow, which also lost out at the Oscars.\"We're happy because we won ... It was a fantastic film I saw twice and which had an impact on me,\" said the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner. \"With Campanella's talent and the huge public success in Argentina, we showed that this film could win the Oscar.\"The last time Argentina won the best foreign language Oscar was in 1986, for Luis Puenzo's Official History (La Historia Oficial). The country remains the only country in Latin America to have won the award.Campanella himself is relatively well-known in Hollywood, having directed episodes of House and Law & Order, among other series. His film Son of the Bride (El Hijo de la Novia), which also starred Dar\u00edn, was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 2002.", "tags": ["Oscars", "Film", "Culture", "Television", "Oscars 2010"], "title": "Argentina celebrates Oscars triumph"},{"date": "2010-03-09T12:23:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The critics may have been expecting a win for Jacques Audiard's A Prophet or Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon, but victory for Argentina's El Secreto de Sus Ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes) in the foreign language section at Sunday night's Oscars has reportedly sent the South American nation into raptures.The Oscars, broadcast there in the early hours of Monday morning, was yesterday's most-watched television programme, and newspapers scurried to print second editions carrying the country's win on their front pages. Throughout the day, news programmes continued to report on the victory and the reaction to it.Juan Jos\u00e9 Campanella's thriller, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is set in Buenos Aires in 1999. It centres on a retired investigator trying to solve the 1974 rape and murder of a woman, and highlights the turbulent nature of Argentina in the 1970s, a period in which the country was controlled mainly by military dictatorships.The Secret in Their Eyes emerged as victor despite the high-profile nature of some of its competitors. Audiard's gangster flick had taken the Grand Prix at Cannes, as well as a foreign language Bafta, while Haneke's austere black-and-white drama took the Palme D'Or at Cannes and the foreign language Golden Globe.\"This is a historic moment,\" veteran actor Guillermo Francella, a member of the film's cast, said following the victory. \"The people felt it personally, which is why there is so much joy in Argentina.\"\"It was really miraculous because the films they were competing against were excellent,\" said Ricardo Dar\u00edn, who plays the lead role of detective Benjam\u00edn Esposito.Earlier this year The Secret in Their Eyes became the second most successful film in the history of its country at the box office, surpassed only by Leonardo Favio's 1975 classic, Nazareno Cruz y el lobo (Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf). It had already taken the best Hispanic-American film prize at the Goyas, ahead of Peruvian rival The Milk of Sorrow, which also lost out at the Oscars.\"We're happy because we won ... It was a fantastic film I saw twice and which had an impact on me,\" said the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner. \"With Campanella's talent and the huge public success in Argentina, we showed that this film could win the Oscar.\"The last time Argentina won the best foreign language Oscar was in 1986, for Luis Puenzo's Official History (La Historia Oficial). The country remains the only country in Latin America to have won the award.Campanella himself is relatively well-known in Hollywood, having directed episodes of House and Law & Order, among other series. His film Son of the Bride (El Hijo de la Novia), which also starred Dar\u00edn, was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 2002.", "tags": ["Oscars", "Film", "Culture", "Television", "Oscars 2010"], "title": "Argentina celebrates Oscars triumph"},{"date": "2010-02-17T07:27:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has tightened controls on all shipping to and from the Falkland Islands in another escalation of its row with Britain over oil and gas exploration in the south Atlantic.President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging vessels which use Argentine ports to seek a government permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters.\"Any boat that wants to travel between ports on the Argentine mainland to the Islas Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \u2026 must first ask for permission from the Argentine government,\" An\u00edbal Fern\u00e1ndez, the cabinet chief, told a news conference in Buenos Aires yesterday.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the islands, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Its ire has been stoked by imminent exploration for hydrocarbon deposits which could turn the archipelago's 2,900 inhabitants into oil barons. A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive today and soon start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed.A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the rig to drill prospects in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies and an Australian one \u2013 Rockhopper, and Falklands Oil and Gas; and BHP Billiton \u2013 which also have exploration contracts.They will use the rig in rotation throughout 2010. It will be the first drilling in Falkland waters since Shell suspended exploration in 1998 after oil prices slumped to $12 a barrel.Oil companies are bullish about prospects this time round but island authorities caution that no commercial deposits have yet been found.Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest. Last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands and the foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, met the governor of Tierra del Fuego province, Fabiana Ros, to co-ordinate Argentina's response.Yesterday's decree will force all ships \u2013 not just those involved in hydrocarbon exploration \u2013 bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit.The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply. Analysts said Buenos Aires was giving companies a warning and driving up the costs of business with the Falklands.A British embassy spokesman played down the decree's significance. \"The way in which Argentina applies its laws within Argentine territory is a matter for Argentina \u2026 the United Kingdom has no doubts about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and the surrounding maritime area.\"Despite mounting domestic woes for the Argentinian and British governments neither is expected to seek diversion in another military conflict. The 1982 war, which cost 649 Argentine and 258 British lives, doomed Argentina's dictatorship and forged Margaret Thatcher's reputation as Britain's \"iron lady\" prime minister.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Gas", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina imposes shipping controls in Falklands oil row"},{"date": "2010-03-09T12:23:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The critics may have been expecting a win for Jacques Audiard's A Prophet or Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon, but victory for Argentina's El Secreto de Sus Ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes) in the foreign language section at Sunday night's Oscars has reportedly sent the South American nation into raptures.The Oscars, broadcast there in the early hours of Monday morning, was yesterday's most-watched television programme, and newspapers scurried to print second editions carrying the country's win on their front pages. Throughout the day, news programmes continued to report on the victory and the reaction to it.Juan Jos\u00e9 Campanella's thriller, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is set in Buenos Aires in 1999. It centres on a retired investigator trying to solve the 1974 rape and murder of a woman, and highlights the turbulent nature of Argentina in the 1970s, a period in which the country was controlled mainly by military dictatorships.The Secret in Their Eyes emerged as victor despite the high-profile nature of some of its competitors. Audiard's gangster flick had taken the Grand Prix at Cannes, as well as a foreign language Bafta, while Haneke's austere black-and-white drama took the Palme D'Or at Cannes and the foreign language Golden Globe.\"This is a historic moment,\" veteran actor Guillermo Francella, a member of the film's cast, said following the victory. \"The people felt it personally, which is why there is so much joy in Argentina.\"\"It was really miraculous because the films they were competing against were excellent,\" said Ricardo Dar\u00edn, who plays the lead role of detective Benjam\u00edn Esposito.Earlier this year The Secret in Their Eyes became the second most successful film in the history of its country at the box office, surpassed only by Leonardo Favio's 1975 classic, Nazareno Cruz y el lobo (Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf). It had already taken the best Hispanic-American film prize at the Goyas, ahead of Peruvian rival The Milk of Sorrow, which also lost out at the Oscars.\"We're happy because we won ... It was a fantastic film I saw twice and which had an impact on me,\" said the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner. \"With Campanella's talent and the huge public success in Argentina, we showed that this film could win the Oscar.\"The last time Argentina won the best foreign language Oscar was in 1986, for Luis Puenzo's Official History (La Historia Oficial). The country remains the only country in Latin America to have won the award.Campanella himself is relatively well-known in Hollywood, having directed episodes of House and Law & Order, among other series. His film Son of the Bride (El Hijo de la Novia), which also starred Dar\u00edn, was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 2002.", "tags": ["Oscars", "Film", "Culture", "Television", "Oscars 2010"], "title": "Argentina celebrates Oscars triumph"},{"date": "2010-02-17T07:27:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has tightened controls on all shipping to and from the Falkland Islands in another escalation of its row with Britain over oil and gas exploration in the south Atlantic.President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging vessels which use Argentine ports to seek a government permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters.\"Any boat that wants to travel between ports on the Argentine mainland to the Islas Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \u2026 must first ask for permission from the Argentine government,\" An\u00edbal Fern\u00e1ndez, the cabinet chief, told a news conference in Buenos Aires yesterday.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the islands, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Its ire has been stoked by imminent exploration for hydrocarbon deposits which could turn the archipelago's 2,900 inhabitants into oil barons. A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive today and soon start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed.A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the rig to drill prospects in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies and an Australian one \u2013 Rockhopper, and Falklands Oil and Gas; and BHP Billiton \u2013 which also have exploration contracts.They will use the rig in rotation throughout 2010. It will be the first drilling in Falkland waters since Shell suspended exploration in 1998 after oil prices slumped to $12 a barrel.Oil companies are bullish about prospects this time round but island authorities caution that no commercial deposits have yet been found.Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest. Last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands and the foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, met the governor of Tierra del Fuego province, Fabiana Ros, to co-ordinate Argentina's response.Yesterday's decree will force all ships \u2013 not just those involved in hydrocarbon exploration \u2013 bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit.The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply. Analysts said Buenos Aires was giving companies a warning and driving up the costs of business with the Falklands.A British embassy spokesman played down the decree's significance. \"The way in which Argentina applies its laws within Argentine territory is a matter for Argentina \u2026 the United Kingdom has no doubts about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and the surrounding maritime area.\"Despite mounting domestic woes for the Argentinian and British governments neither is expected to seek diversion in another military conflict. The 1982 war, which cost 649 Argentine and 258 British lives, doomed Argentina's dictatorship and forged Margaret Thatcher's reputation as Britain's \"iron lady\" prime minister.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Gas", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina imposes shipping controls in Falklands oil row"},{"date": "2010-02-25T00:31:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina last night intensified its diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands by taking the case to the United Nations.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, spelled out Buenos Aires's demands in a meeting in New York with the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, just a day after mobilising Latin American and Caribbean support.Taiana told reporters afterwards that Ban was not happy that tensions had worsened because of Britain's decision to start drilling and was willing to continue his \"good offices\" mission.The minister said the meeting was \"very cordial, positive\" but did not say if Ban had agreed to pressure London over the islands' sovereignty. The secretary general made no immediate comment.Argentina has demanded an immediate cessation of the British drilling for oil and gas that started this week, terming it \"the latest illegitimate and unilateral actions by the UK\". The next step would be to table a resolution at the UN general assembly.The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK would be able to veto substantive resolutions.Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, added pressure by saying the council was an anachronism tilted in favour of western powers. He said: \"It is not possible that Argentina is not the owner while England is, despite being 14,000km away.\"He also repeated long-standing complaints that Brazil and other emerging powers should be included as permanent members of the security council.British officials have privately admitted frustration, but no great surprise, that mainstream Latin leaders have thrown their weight behind Buenos Aires.After the Argentinian minister's meeting with the UN secretary-general, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, the UK's permanent representative to the UN, reiterated British claims to sovereignty over the Falkland islands, South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands.\"This position is underpinned by the principle of self-determination as set out in the UN Charter. We are also clear that the Falkland Islands government is entitled to develop a hydrocarbons industry within its waters, and we support this legitimate business in Falklands' territory.\" In a statement yesterday Downing Street said drilling would continue.With Argentina's regional allies lining up to denounce London, the Obama administration, which wants to improve US ties with Latin America without alienating Britain, sought to distance itself from the row.\"I think we are neutral on the question of sovereignty. We do recognise the \u00adcurrent UK administration of the islands,\" said Philip Crowley, of the US state department, before urging \"good-faith dialogue\" between Buenos Aires and London.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits.Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory on Monday when it turned a summit of 32 countries in Mexico into a platform to accuse Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling.Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out.\"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.She said: \"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "United Nations", "Argentina", "UK news", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Oil", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina appeals to UN over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-03-09T12:23:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The critics may have been expecting a win for Jacques Audiard's A Prophet or Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon, but victory for Argentina's El Secreto de Sus Ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes) in the foreign language section at Sunday night's Oscars has reportedly sent the South American nation into raptures.The Oscars, broadcast there in the early hours of Monday morning, was yesterday's most-watched television programme, and newspapers scurried to print second editions carrying the country's win on their front pages. Throughout the day, news programmes continued to report on the victory and the reaction to it.Juan Jos\u00e9 Campanella's thriller, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is set in Buenos Aires in 1999. It centres on a retired investigator trying to solve the 1974 rape and murder of a woman, and highlights the turbulent nature of Argentina in the 1970s, a period in which the country was controlled mainly by military dictatorships.The Secret in Their Eyes emerged as victor despite the high-profile nature of some of its competitors. Audiard's gangster flick had taken the Grand Prix at Cannes, as well as a foreign language Bafta, while Haneke's austere black-and-white drama took the Palme D'Or at Cannes and the foreign language Golden Globe.\"This is a historic moment,\" veteran actor Guillermo Francella, a member of the film's cast, said following the victory. \"The people felt it personally, which is why there is so much joy in Argentina.\"\"It was really miraculous because the films they were competing against were excellent,\" said Ricardo Dar\u00edn, who plays the lead role of detective Benjam\u00edn Esposito.Earlier this year The Secret in Their Eyes became the second most successful film in the history of its country at the box office, surpassed only by Leonardo Favio's 1975 classic, Nazareno Cruz y el lobo (Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf). It had already taken the best Hispanic-American film prize at the Goyas, ahead of Peruvian rival The Milk of Sorrow, which also lost out at the Oscars.\"We're happy because we won ... It was a fantastic film I saw twice and which had an impact on me,\" said the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner. \"With Campanella's talent and the huge public success in Argentina, we showed that this film could win the Oscar.\"The last time Argentina won the best foreign language Oscar was in 1986, for Luis Puenzo's Official History (La Historia Oficial). The country remains the only country in Latin America to have won the award.Campanella himself is relatively well-known in Hollywood, having directed episodes of House and Law & Order, among other series. His film Son of the Bride (El Hijo de la Novia), which also starred Dar\u00edn, was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 2002.", "tags": ["Oscars", "Film", "Culture", "Television", "Oscars 2010"], "title": "Argentina celebrates Oscars triumph"},{"date": "2010-02-17T07:27:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has tightened controls on all shipping to and from the Falkland Islands in another escalation of its row with Britain over oil and gas exploration in the south Atlantic.President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging vessels which use Argentine ports to seek a government permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters.\"Any boat that wants to travel between ports on the Argentine mainland to the Islas Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \u2026 must first ask for permission from the Argentine government,\" An\u00edbal Fern\u00e1ndez, the cabinet chief, told a news conference in Buenos Aires yesterday.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the islands, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Its ire has been stoked by imminent exploration for hydrocarbon deposits which could turn the archipelago's 2,900 inhabitants into oil barons. A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive today and soon start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed.A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the rig to drill prospects in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies and an Australian one \u2013 Rockhopper, and Falklands Oil and Gas; and BHP Billiton \u2013 which also have exploration contracts.They will use the rig in rotation throughout 2010. It will be the first drilling in Falkland waters since Shell suspended exploration in 1998 after oil prices slumped to $12 a barrel.Oil companies are bullish about prospects this time round but island authorities caution that no commercial deposits have yet been found.Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest. Last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands and the foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, met the governor of Tierra del Fuego province, Fabiana Ros, to co-ordinate Argentina's response.Yesterday's decree will force all ships \u2013 not just those involved in hydrocarbon exploration \u2013 bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit.The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply. Analysts said Buenos Aires was giving companies a warning and driving up the costs of business with the Falklands.A British embassy spokesman played down the decree's significance. \"The way in which Argentina applies its laws within Argentine territory is a matter for Argentina \u2026 the United Kingdom has no doubts about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and the surrounding maritime area.\"Despite mounting domestic woes for the Argentinian and British governments neither is expected to seek diversion in another military conflict. The 1982 war, which cost 649 Argentine and 258 British lives, doomed Argentina's dictatorship and forged Margaret Thatcher's reputation as Britain's \"iron lady\" prime minister.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Gas", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina imposes shipping controls in Falklands oil row"},{"date": "2010-02-25T00:31:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina last night intensified its diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands by taking the case to the United Nations.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, spelled out Buenos Aires's demands in a meeting in New York with the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, just a day after mobilising Latin American and Caribbean support.Taiana told reporters afterwards that Ban was not happy that tensions had worsened because of Britain's decision to start drilling and was willing to continue his \"good offices\" mission.The minister said the meeting was \"very cordial, positive\" but did not say if Ban had agreed to pressure London over the islands' sovereignty. The secretary general made no immediate comment.Argentina has demanded an immediate cessation of the British drilling for oil and gas that started this week, terming it \"the latest illegitimate and unilateral actions by the UK\". The next step would be to table a resolution at the UN general assembly.The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK would be able to veto substantive resolutions.Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, added pressure by saying the council was an anachronism tilted in favour of western powers. He said: \"It is not possible that Argentina is not the owner while England is, despite being 14,000km away.\"He also repeated long-standing complaints that Brazil and other emerging powers should be included as permanent members of the security council.British officials have privately admitted frustration, but no great surprise, that mainstream Latin leaders have thrown their weight behind Buenos Aires.After the Argentinian minister's meeting with the UN secretary-general, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, the UK's permanent representative to the UN, reiterated British claims to sovereignty over the Falkland islands, South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands.\"This position is underpinned by the principle of self-determination as set out in the UN Charter. We are also clear that the Falkland Islands government is entitled to develop a hydrocarbons industry within its waters, and we support this legitimate business in Falklands' territory.\" In a statement yesterday Downing Street said drilling would continue.With Argentina's regional allies lining up to denounce London, the Obama administration, which wants to improve US ties with Latin America without alienating Britain, sought to distance itself from the row.\"I think we are neutral on the question of sovereignty. We do recognise the \u00adcurrent UK administration of the islands,\" said Philip Crowley, of the US state department, before urging \"good-faith dialogue\" between Buenos Aires and London.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits.Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory on Monday when it turned a summit of 32 countries in Mexico into a platform to accuse Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling.Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out.\"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.She said: \"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "United Nations", "Argentina", "UK news", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Oil", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina appeals to UN over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-02-24T10:47:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands intensified today as Argentina prepared to stake its case to the head of the UN backed by regional allies including Brazil.The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, said a summit of 32 countries in Mexico had endorsed a document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week.The Rio Group summit made no immediate official statement, but Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands to Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, is due to meet the UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, in New York today. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK can veto substantive resolutions.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits. Last night, Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, criticised the UN for not pushing more forcefully to reopen the debate over the islands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas.\"What is the geographic, the political or economic explanation for the UK to be in Las Malvinas?\" he asked. \"Could it be because the UK is a permanent member of the UN's security council where they can do everything and the others nothing?\"Today's Times newspaper said a resolution was set to be tabled in the UN general assembly condemning Britain for allowing the owner of the British rig, Desire Petroleum, to begin drilling 60 miles north of the islands after Argentina announced new shipping controls.The defence minister, Bill Rammell, said the government would take \"whatever steps are necessary\" to protect the islands, which had a \"legitimate right\" to develop an oil industry within their waters.At the Rio Group summit, Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain\".Kirchner ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out. \"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.\"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"I would say that is ridiculous, cynical, because few countries have shown more signs of peaceful intentions than Argentina after the advent of democracy,\" she said according to an English translation of her speech posted on the presidency's website.Jan Cheek, a member of the Falklands legislative assembly, said she was \"not surprised\" by the Latin American countries' statement, as they had historically tended to back Argentina in the dispute.She said on BBC Radio 4's Today programme: \"Argentina does regularly take this issue to the UN but it has very little effect on us, mainly because what they are seeking is to make us a colony of Argentina while we have freely chosen, through self-determination, to be an overseas territory of the UK.\"Analysts said Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina to state Falkland Islands case to UN chief"},{"date": "2010-03-09T12:23:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The critics may have been expecting a win for Jacques Audiard's A Prophet or Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon, but victory for Argentina's El Secreto de Sus Ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes) in the foreign language section at Sunday night's Oscars has reportedly sent the South American nation into raptures.The Oscars, broadcast there in the early hours of Monday morning, was yesterday's most-watched television programme, and newspapers scurried to print second editions carrying the country's win on their front pages. Throughout the day, news programmes continued to report on the victory and the reaction to it.Juan Jos\u00e9 Campanella's thriller, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is set in Buenos Aires in 1999. It centres on a retired investigator trying to solve the 1974 rape and murder of a woman, and highlights the turbulent nature of Argentina in the 1970s, a period in which the country was controlled mainly by military dictatorships.The Secret in Their Eyes emerged as victor despite the high-profile nature of some of its competitors. Audiard's gangster flick had taken the Grand Prix at Cannes, as well as a foreign language Bafta, while Haneke's austere black-and-white drama took the Palme D'Or at Cannes and the foreign language Golden Globe.\"This is a historic moment,\" veteran actor Guillermo Francella, a member of the film's cast, said following the victory. \"The people felt it personally, which is why there is so much joy in Argentina.\"\"It was really miraculous because the films they were competing against were excellent,\" said Ricardo Dar\u00edn, who plays the lead role of detective Benjam\u00edn Esposito.Earlier this year The Secret in Their Eyes became the second most successful film in the history of its country at the box office, surpassed only by Leonardo Favio's 1975 classic, Nazareno Cruz y el lobo (Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf). It had already taken the best Hispanic-American film prize at the Goyas, ahead of Peruvian rival The Milk of Sorrow, which also lost out at the Oscars.\"We're happy because we won ... It was a fantastic film I saw twice and which had an impact on me,\" said the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner. \"With Campanella's talent and the huge public success in Argentina, we showed that this film could win the Oscar.\"The last time Argentina won the best foreign language Oscar was in 1986, for Luis Puenzo's Official History (La Historia Oficial). The country remains the only country in Latin America to have won the award.Campanella himself is relatively well-known in Hollywood, having directed episodes of House and Law & Order, among other series. His film Son of the Bride (El Hijo de la Novia), which also starred Dar\u00edn, was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 2002.", "tags": ["Oscars", "Film", "Culture", "Television", "Oscars 2010"], "title": "Argentina celebrates Oscars triumph"},{"date": "2010-02-17T07:27:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has tightened controls on all shipping to and from the Falkland Islands in another escalation of its row with Britain over oil and gas exploration in the south Atlantic.President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging vessels which use Argentine ports to seek a government permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters.\"Any boat that wants to travel between ports on the Argentine mainland to the Islas Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \u2026 must first ask for permission from the Argentine government,\" An\u00edbal Fern\u00e1ndez, the cabinet chief, told a news conference in Buenos Aires yesterday.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the islands, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Its ire has been stoked by imminent exploration for hydrocarbon deposits which could turn the archipelago's 2,900 inhabitants into oil barons. A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive today and soon start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed.A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the rig to drill prospects in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies and an Australian one \u2013 Rockhopper, and Falklands Oil and Gas; and BHP Billiton \u2013 which also have exploration contracts.They will use the rig in rotation throughout 2010. It will be the first drilling in Falkland waters since Shell suspended exploration in 1998 after oil prices slumped to $12 a barrel.Oil companies are bullish about prospects this time round but island authorities caution that no commercial deposits have yet been found.Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest. Last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands and the foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, met the governor of Tierra del Fuego province, Fabiana Ros, to co-ordinate Argentina's response.Yesterday's decree will force all ships \u2013 not just those involved in hydrocarbon exploration \u2013 bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit.The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply. Analysts said Buenos Aires was giving companies a warning and driving up the costs of business with the Falklands.A British embassy spokesman played down the decree's significance. \"The way in which Argentina applies its laws within Argentine territory is a matter for Argentina \u2026 the United Kingdom has no doubts about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and the surrounding maritime area.\"Despite mounting domestic woes for the Argentinian and British governments neither is expected to seek diversion in another military conflict. The 1982 war, which cost 649 Argentine and 258 British lives, doomed Argentina's dictatorship and forged Margaret Thatcher's reputation as Britain's \"iron lady\" prime minister.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Gas", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina imposes shipping controls in Falklands oil row"},{"date": "2010-02-25T00:31:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina last night intensified its diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands by taking the case to the United Nations.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, spelled out Buenos Aires's demands in a meeting in New York with the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, just a day after mobilising Latin American and Caribbean support.Taiana told reporters afterwards that Ban was not happy that tensions had worsened because of Britain's decision to start drilling and was willing to continue his \"good offices\" mission.The minister said the meeting was \"very cordial, positive\" but did not say if Ban had agreed to pressure London over the islands' sovereignty. The secretary general made no immediate comment.Argentina has demanded an immediate cessation of the British drilling for oil and gas that started this week, terming it \"the latest illegitimate and unilateral actions by the UK\". The next step would be to table a resolution at the UN general assembly.The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK would be able to veto substantive resolutions.Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, added pressure by saying the council was an anachronism tilted in favour of western powers. He said: \"It is not possible that Argentina is not the owner while England is, despite being 14,000km away.\"He also repeated long-standing complaints that Brazil and other emerging powers should be included as permanent members of the security council.British officials have privately admitted frustration, but no great surprise, that mainstream Latin leaders have thrown their weight behind Buenos Aires.After the Argentinian minister's meeting with the UN secretary-general, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, the UK's permanent representative to the UN, reiterated British claims to sovereignty over the Falkland islands, South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands.\"This position is underpinned by the principle of self-determination as set out in the UN Charter. We are also clear that the Falkland Islands government is entitled to develop a hydrocarbons industry within its waters, and we support this legitimate business in Falklands' territory.\" In a statement yesterday Downing Street said drilling would continue.With Argentina's regional allies lining up to denounce London, the Obama administration, which wants to improve US ties with Latin America without alienating Britain, sought to distance itself from the row.\"I think we are neutral on the question of sovereignty. We do recognise the \u00adcurrent UK administration of the islands,\" said Philip Crowley, of the US state department, before urging \"good-faith dialogue\" between Buenos Aires and London.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits.Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory on Monday when it turned a summit of 32 countries in Mexico into a platform to accuse Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling.Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out.\"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.She said: \"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "United Nations", "Argentina", "UK news", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Oil", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina appeals to UN over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-02-24T10:47:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands intensified today as Argentina prepared to stake its case to the head of the UN backed by regional allies including Brazil.The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, said a summit of 32 countries in Mexico had endorsed a document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week.The Rio Group summit made no immediate official statement, but Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands to Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, is due to meet the UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, in New York today. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK can veto substantive resolutions.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits. Last night, Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, criticised the UN for not pushing more forcefully to reopen the debate over the islands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas.\"What is the geographic, the political or economic explanation for the UK to be in Las Malvinas?\" he asked. \"Could it be because the UK is a permanent member of the UN's security council where they can do everything and the others nothing?\"Today's Times newspaper said a resolution was set to be tabled in the UN general assembly condemning Britain for allowing the owner of the British rig, Desire Petroleum, to begin drilling 60 miles north of the islands after Argentina announced new shipping controls.The defence minister, Bill Rammell, said the government would take \"whatever steps are necessary\" to protect the islands, which had a \"legitimate right\" to develop an oil industry within their waters.At the Rio Group summit, Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain\".Kirchner ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out. \"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.\"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"I would say that is ridiculous, cynical, because few countries have shown more signs of peaceful intentions than Argentina after the advent of democracy,\" she said according to an English translation of her speech posted on the presidency's website.Jan Cheek, a member of the Falklands legislative assembly, said she was \"not surprised\" by the Latin American countries' statement, as they had historically tended to back Argentina in the dispute.She said on BBC Radio 4's Today programme: \"Argentina does regularly take this issue to the UN but it has very little effect on us, mainly because what they are seeking is to make us a colony of Argentina while we have freely chosen, through self-determination, to be an overseas territory of the UK.\"Analysts said Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina to state Falkland Islands case to UN chief"},{"date": "2010-02-24T00:56:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Latin America and Caribbean nations appeared to close ranks behind \u00adArgentina yesterday in its dispute with Britain over oil exploration in Falkland islands' waters.A summit of 32 countries in Mexico endorsed an Argentine document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week, said Argentina's president, Cristina Kirchner.\"We have achieved very strong support, something that legitimates our claims fundamentally against the new petroleum activity.\"The Argentine statement quoted Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, saying: \"The heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Rio Group summit, meeting in Canc\u00fan, made no immediate official statement but there was no doubting support for Argentina from leftist allies. Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas, to Buenos Aires.The Argentine government is seeking to escalate its diplomatic offensive in New York today when its foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, meets with UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, to press Argentina's claim. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the Security Council where the UK can veto substantive resolutions. The longstanding sovereignty stand-off flared earlier this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits which could turn the archipelago into an oil-rich region.Desire Petroleum, a small British company, started drilling on Monday about 60 miles north of the islands. Geologists say there could be up to 60bn barrels although sceptics doubt its commercially viability.The row has brought Anglo-Argentine relations to a new low since the 1982 conflict but Kirchner ruled out any attempt to blockade the islands. Analysts said \u00adBuenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.\"Beyond making Kirchner, and some other Latin American leaders, feel good and perhaps getting a bit of a political bounce at home, the collective regional posture will mean very little on the ground,\" said Michael Shifter of the Inter-American Dialogue thinktank.The main purpose of the two-day summit, which finished yesterday, was to agree on a new pan-regional body which would exclude the US and Canada and eclipse the toothless Washington-based Organisation of American States.However, pledges of solidarity were overshadowed by a row between Ch\u00e1vez and Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe, who reportedly traded insults at a lunch. Ch\u00e1vez reportedly said \"vete al carajo\" \u2013 which can be translated either as \"go to hell\" or \"go fuck yourself\" \u2013 and threatened to walk out while Uribe replied that the Venezuelan should \"be a man\" and stay to argue his case rather than hurl insults from afar. Cuba's president, Ra\u00fal Castro, intervened to cool the row.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Argentina", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Energy industry", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Colombia", "Venezuela", "Cuba", "Mexico", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas"], "title": "Latin American leaders back Argentina over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-03-09T12:23:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The critics may have been expecting a win for Jacques Audiard's A Prophet or Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon, but victory for Argentina's El Secreto de Sus Ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes) in the foreign language section at Sunday night's Oscars has reportedly sent the South American nation into raptures.The Oscars, broadcast there in the early hours of Monday morning, was yesterday's most-watched television programme, and newspapers scurried to print second editions carrying the country's win on their front pages. Throughout the day, news programmes continued to report on the victory and the reaction to it.Juan Jos\u00e9 Campanella's thriller, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is set in Buenos Aires in 1999. It centres on a retired investigator trying to solve the 1974 rape and murder of a woman, and highlights the turbulent nature of Argentina in the 1970s, a period in which the country was controlled mainly by military dictatorships.The Secret in Their Eyes emerged as victor despite the high-profile nature of some of its competitors. Audiard's gangster flick had taken the Grand Prix at Cannes, as well as a foreign language Bafta, while Haneke's austere black-and-white drama took the Palme D'Or at Cannes and the foreign language Golden Globe.\"This is a historic moment,\" veteran actor Guillermo Francella, a member of the film's cast, said following the victory. \"The people felt it personally, which is why there is so much joy in Argentina.\"\"It was really miraculous because the films they were competing against were excellent,\" said Ricardo Dar\u00edn, who plays the lead role of detective Benjam\u00edn Esposito.Earlier this year The Secret in Their Eyes became the second most successful film in the history of its country at the box office, surpassed only by Leonardo Favio's 1975 classic, Nazareno Cruz y el lobo (Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf). It had already taken the best Hispanic-American film prize at the Goyas, ahead of Peruvian rival The Milk of Sorrow, which also lost out at the Oscars.\"We're happy because we won ... It was a fantastic film I saw twice and which had an impact on me,\" said the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner. \"With Campanella's talent and the huge public success in Argentina, we showed that this film could win the Oscar.\"The last time Argentina won the best foreign language Oscar was in 1986, for Luis Puenzo's Official History (La Historia Oficial). The country remains the only country in Latin America to have won the award.Campanella himself is relatively well-known in Hollywood, having directed episodes of House and Law & Order, among other series. His film Son of the Bride (El Hijo de la Novia), which also starred Dar\u00edn, was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 2002.", "tags": ["Oscars", "Film", "Culture", "Television", "Oscars 2010"], "title": "Argentina celebrates Oscars triumph"},{"date": "2010-02-17T07:27:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has tightened controls on all shipping to and from the Falkland Islands in another escalation of its row with Britain over oil and gas exploration in the south Atlantic.President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging vessels which use Argentine ports to seek a government permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters.\"Any boat that wants to travel between ports on the Argentine mainland to the Islas Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \u2026 must first ask for permission from the Argentine government,\" An\u00edbal Fern\u00e1ndez, the cabinet chief, told a news conference in Buenos Aires yesterday.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the islands, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Its ire has been stoked by imminent exploration for hydrocarbon deposits which could turn the archipelago's 2,900 inhabitants into oil barons. A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive today and soon start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed.A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the rig to drill prospects in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies and an Australian one \u2013 Rockhopper, and Falklands Oil and Gas; and BHP Billiton \u2013 which also have exploration contracts.They will use the rig in rotation throughout 2010. It will be the first drilling in Falkland waters since Shell suspended exploration in 1998 after oil prices slumped to $12 a barrel.Oil companies are bullish about prospects this time round but island authorities caution that no commercial deposits have yet been found.Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest. Last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands and the foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, met the governor of Tierra del Fuego province, Fabiana Ros, to co-ordinate Argentina's response.Yesterday's decree will force all ships \u2013 not just those involved in hydrocarbon exploration \u2013 bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit.The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply. Analysts said Buenos Aires was giving companies a warning and driving up the costs of business with the Falklands.A British embassy spokesman played down the decree's significance. \"The way in which Argentina applies its laws within Argentine territory is a matter for Argentina \u2026 the United Kingdom has no doubts about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and the surrounding maritime area.\"Despite mounting domestic woes for the Argentinian and British governments neither is expected to seek diversion in another military conflict. The 1982 war, which cost 649 Argentine and 258 British lives, doomed Argentina's dictatorship and forged Margaret Thatcher's reputation as Britain's \"iron lady\" prime minister.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Gas", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina imposes shipping controls in Falklands oil row"},{"date": "2010-02-25T00:31:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina last night intensified its diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands by taking the case to the United Nations.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, spelled out Buenos Aires's demands in a meeting in New York with the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, just a day after mobilising Latin American and Caribbean support.Taiana told reporters afterwards that Ban was not happy that tensions had worsened because of Britain's decision to start drilling and was willing to continue his \"good offices\" mission.The minister said the meeting was \"very cordial, positive\" but did not say if Ban had agreed to pressure London over the islands' sovereignty. The secretary general made no immediate comment.Argentina has demanded an immediate cessation of the British drilling for oil and gas that started this week, terming it \"the latest illegitimate and unilateral actions by the UK\". The next step would be to table a resolution at the UN general assembly.The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK would be able to veto substantive resolutions.Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, added pressure by saying the council was an anachronism tilted in favour of western powers. He said: \"It is not possible that Argentina is not the owner while England is, despite being 14,000km away.\"He also repeated long-standing complaints that Brazil and other emerging powers should be included as permanent members of the security council.British officials have privately admitted frustration, but no great surprise, that mainstream Latin leaders have thrown their weight behind Buenos Aires.After the Argentinian minister's meeting with the UN secretary-general, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, the UK's permanent representative to the UN, reiterated British claims to sovereignty over the Falkland islands, South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands.\"This position is underpinned by the principle of self-determination as set out in the UN Charter. We are also clear that the Falkland Islands government is entitled to develop a hydrocarbons industry within its waters, and we support this legitimate business in Falklands' territory.\" In a statement yesterday Downing Street said drilling would continue.With Argentina's regional allies lining up to denounce London, the Obama administration, which wants to improve US ties with Latin America without alienating Britain, sought to distance itself from the row.\"I think we are neutral on the question of sovereignty. We do recognise the \u00adcurrent UK administration of the islands,\" said Philip Crowley, of the US state department, before urging \"good-faith dialogue\" between Buenos Aires and London.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits.Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory on Monday when it turned a summit of 32 countries in Mexico into a platform to accuse Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling.Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out.\"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.She said: \"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "United Nations", "Argentina", "UK news", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Oil", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina appeals to UN over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-02-24T10:47:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands intensified today as Argentina prepared to stake its case to the head of the UN backed by regional allies including Brazil.The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, said a summit of 32 countries in Mexico had endorsed a document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week.The Rio Group summit made no immediate official statement, but Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands to Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, is due to meet the UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, in New York today. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK can veto substantive resolutions.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits. Last night, Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, criticised the UN for not pushing more forcefully to reopen the debate over the islands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas.\"What is the geographic, the political or economic explanation for the UK to be in Las Malvinas?\" he asked. \"Could it be because the UK is a permanent member of the UN's security council where they can do everything and the others nothing?\"Today's Times newspaper said a resolution was set to be tabled in the UN general assembly condemning Britain for allowing the owner of the British rig, Desire Petroleum, to begin drilling 60 miles north of the islands after Argentina announced new shipping controls.The defence minister, Bill Rammell, said the government would take \"whatever steps are necessary\" to protect the islands, which had a \"legitimate right\" to develop an oil industry within their waters.At the Rio Group summit, Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain\".Kirchner ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out. \"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.\"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"I would say that is ridiculous, cynical, because few countries have shown more signs of peaceful intentions than Argentina after the advent of democracy,\" she said according to an English translation of her speech posted on the presidency's website.Jan Cheek, a member of the Falklands legislative assembly, said she was \"not surprised\" by the Latin American countries' statement, as they had historically tended to back Argentina in the dispute.She said on BBC Radio 4's Today programme: \"Argentina does regularly take this issue to the UN but it has very little effect on us, mainly because what they are seeking is to make us a colony of Argentina while we have freely chosen, through self-determination, to be an overseas territory of the UK.\"Analysts said Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina to state Falkland Islands case to UN chief"},{"date": "2010-02-24T00:56:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Latin America and Caribbean nations appeared to close ranks behind \u00adArgentina yesterday in its dispute with Britain over oil exploration in Falkland islands' waters.A summit of 32 countries in Mexico endorsed an Argentine document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week, said Argentina's president, Cristina Kirchner.\"We have achieved very strong support, something that legitimates our claims fundamentally against the new petroleum activity.\"The Argentine statement quoted Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, saying: \"The heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Rio Group summit, meeting in Canc\u00fan, made no immediate official statement but there was no doubting support for Argentina from leftist allies. Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas, to Buenos Aires.The Argentine government is seeking to escalate its diplomatic offensive in New York today when its foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, meets with UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, to press Argentina's claim. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the Security Council where the UK can veto substantive resolutions. The longstanding sovereignty stand-off flared earlier this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits which could turn the archipelago into an oil-rich region.Desire Petroleum, a small British company, started drilling on Monday about 60 miles north of the islands. Geologists say there could be up to 60bn barrels although sceptics doubt its commercially viability.The row has brought Anglo-Argentine relations to a new low since the 1982 conflict but Kirchner ruled out any attempt to blockade the islands. Analysts said \u00adBuenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.\"Beyond making Kirchner, and some other Latin American leaders, feel good and perhaps getting a bit of a political bounce at home, the collective regional posture will mean very little on the ground,\" said Michael Shifter of the Inter-American Dialogue thinktank.The main purpose of the two-day summit, which finished yesterday, was to agree on a new pan-regional body which would exclude the US and Canada and eclipse the toothless Washington-based Organisation of American States.However, pledges of solidarity were overshadowed by a row between Ch\u00e1vez and Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe, who reportedly traded insults at a lunch. Ch\u00e1vez reportedly said \"vete al carajo\" \u2013 which can be translated either as \"go to hell\" or \"go fuck yourself\" \u2013 and threatened to walk out while Uribe replied that the Venezuelan should \"be a man\" and stay to argue his case rather than hurl insults from afar. Cuba's president, Ra\u00fal Castro, intervened to cool the row.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Argentina", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Energy industry", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Colombia", "Venezuela", "Cuba", "Mexico", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas"], "title": "Latin American leaders back Argentina over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-02-17T20:01:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Britain and the Falkland Islands today brushed off Argentinian moves to impede oil and gas exploration in British-controlled waters in the south Atlantic, saying there was no threat to shipping.The Foreign Office and Falkland authorities said drilling for hydrocarbon deposits would go ahead without disruption despite an Argentinian effort to control traffic between its ports and the islands.The rebuff came as critics in Buenos Aires accused Argentina's government of playing the nationalist card to distract from mounting domestic woes.Yesterday President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging all vessels using Argentinian ports to seek a permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters, escalating a diplomatic row with London over a prospective \"black gold\" bonanza.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the archipelago, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Phyl Rendell, the Falklands' director of mineral resources, shrugged off talk of a blockade. \"There are very few implications for the Falklands regarding the presidential decree because there are no direct shipping links with Argentina anyway. All oil exploration supplies are being shipped out from Aberdeen. I do not see how the situation can escalate.\"The Foreign Office also played down the possibility of conflict and said it wanted to co-operate with Buenos Aires over south Atlantic issues. \"Regulations governing Argentine territorial waters are a matter for the Argentine authorities. This does not affect Falkland Islands territorial waters, which are controlled by the island authorities.\"Argentina's decree, announced with some fanfare at a press conference, will in theory force all ships bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit. The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply.Kirchner urged the UN to broker talks over the archipelago's sovereignty and accused Britain of dodging negotiations. The president defended the decree, saying: \"I am telling all Argentines that we will keep working for our rights in Malvinas.\"Argentinians consider sovereignty over the islands, which Britain occupied in 1833, a matter of national pride. The prospect of missing an oil bonanza has salted wounds from the 1982 conflict, which cost 649 Argentinian and 258 British lives.A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive this week to start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed. Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest and last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands.Critics accused Kirchner, whose ratings have plunged over inflation, corruption and battles with farmers, of seeking a distraction. The government must not try to hide \"serious internal problems\", the newspaper Clarin said in an editorial.Oil analysts said Argentina's actions would raise the cost of exploration in Argentinian as well as Falkland waters. No commercial deposits have yet been found. A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the Ocean Guardian rig to drill in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies, Rockhopper and Falklands Oil and Gas, and an Australian one, BHP Billiton.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Oil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina steps up row over Falklands oil exploration"},{"date": "2010-03-09T12:23:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The critics may have been expecting a win for Jacques Audiard's A Prophet or Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon, but victory for Argentina's El Secreto de Sus Ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes) in the foreign language section at Sunday night's Oscars has reportedly sent the South American nation into raptures.The Oscars, broadcast there in the early hours of Monday morning, was yesterday's most-watched television programme, and newspapers scurried to print second editions carrying the country's win on their front pages. Throughout the day, news programmes continued to report on the victory and the reaction to it.Juan Jos\u00e9 Campanella's thriller, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is set in Buenos Aires in 1999. It centres on a retired investigator trying to solve the 1974 rape and murder of a woman, and highlights the turbulent nature of Argentina in the 1970s, a period in which the country was controlled mainly by military dictatorships.The Secret in Their Eyes emerged as victor despite the high-profile nature of some of its competitors. Audiard's gangster flick had taken the Grand Prix at Cannes, as well as a foreign language Bafta, while Haneke's austere black-and-white drama took the Palme D'Or at Cannes and the foreign language Golden Globe.\"This is a historic moment,\" veteran actor Guillermo Francella, a member of the film's cast, said following the victory. \"The people felt it personally, which is why there is so much joy in Argentina.\"\"It was really miraculous because the films they were competing against were excellent,\" said Ricardo Dar\u00edn, who plays the lead role of detective Benjam\u00edn Esposito.Earlier this year The Secret in Their Eyes became the second most successful film in the history of its country at the box office, surpassed only by Leonardo Favio's 1975 classic, Nazareno Cruz y el lobo (Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf). It had already taken the best Hispanic-American film prize at the Goyas, ahead of Peruvian rival The Milk of Sorrow, which also lost out at the Oscars.\"We're happy because we won ... It was a fantastic film I saw twice and which had an impact on me,\" said the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner. \"With Campanella's talent and the huge public success in Argentina, we showed that this film could win the Oscar.\"The last time Argentina won the best foreign language Oscar was in 1986, for Luis Puenzo's Official History (La Historia Oficial). The country remains the only country in Latin America to have won the award.Campanella himself is relatively well-known in Hollywood, having directed episodes of House and Law & Order, among other series. His film Son of the Bride (El Hijo de la Novia), which also starred Dar\u00edn, was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 2002.", "tags": ["Oscars", "Film", "Culture", "Television", "Oscars 2010"], "title": "Argentina celebrates Oscars triumph"},{"date": "2010-02-17T07:27:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has tightened controls on all shipping to and from the Falkland Islands in another escalation of its row with Britain over oil and gas exploration in the south Atlantic.President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging vessels which use Argentine ports to seek a government permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters.\"Any boat that wants to travel between ports on the Argentine mainland to the Islas Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \u2026 must first ask for permission from the Argentine government,\" An\u00edbal Fern\u00e1ndez, the cabinet chief, told a news conference in Buenos Aires yesterday.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the islands, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Its ire has been stoked by imminent exploration for hydrocarbon deposits which could turn the archipelago's 2,900 inhabitants into oil barons. A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive today and soon start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed.A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the rig to drill prospects in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies and an Australian one \u2013 Rockhopper, and Falklands Oil and Gas; and BHP Billiton \u2013 which also have exploration contracts.They will use the rig in rotation throughout 2010. It will be the first drilling in Falkland waters since Shell suspended exploration in 1998 after oil prices slumped to $12 a barrel.Oil companies are bullish about prospects this time round but island authorities caution that no commercial deposits have yet been found.Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest. Last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands and the foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, met the governor of Tierra del Fuego province, Fabiana Ros, to co-ordinate Argentina's response.Yesterday's decree will force all ships \u2013 not just those involved in hydrocarbon exploration \u2013 bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit.The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply. Analysts said Buenos Aires was giving companies a warning and driving up the costs of business with the Falklands.A British embassy spokesman played down the decree's significance. \"The way in which Argentina applies its laws within Argentine territory is a matter for Argentina \u2026 the United Kingdom has no doubts about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and the surrounding maritime area.\"Despite mounting domestic woes for the Argentinian and British governments neither is expected to seek diversion in another military conflict. The 1982 war, which cost 649 Argentine and 258 British lives, doomed Argentina's dictatorship and forged Margaret Thatcher's reputation as Britain's \"iron lady\" prime minister.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Gas", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina imposes shipping controls in Falklands oil row"},{"date": "2010-02-25T00:31:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina last night intensified its diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands by taking the case to the United Nations.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, spelled out Buenos Aires's demands in a meeting in New York with the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, just a day after mobilising Latin American and Caribbean support.Taiana told reporters afterwards that Ban was not happy that tensions had worsened because of Britain's decision to start drilling and was willing to continue his \"good offices\" mission.The minister said the meeting was \"very cordial, positive\" but did not say if Ban had agreed to pressure London over the islands' sovereignty. The secretary general made no immediate comment.Argentina has demanded an immediate cessation of the British drilling for oil and gas that started this week, terming it \"the latest illegitimate and unilateral actions by the UK\". The next step would be to table a resolution at the UN general assembly.The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK would be able to veto substantive resolutions.Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, added pressure by saying the council was an anachronism tilted in favour of western powers. He said: \"It is not possible that Argentina is not the owner while England is, despite being 14,000km away.\"He also repeated long-standing complaints that Brazil and other emerging powers should be included as permanent members of the security council.British officials have privately admitted frustration, but no great surprise, that mainstream Latin leaders have thrown their weight behind Buenos Aires.After the Argentinian minister's meeting with the UN secretary-general, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, the UK's permanent representative to the UN, reiterated British claims to sovereignty over the Falkland islands, South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands.\"This position is underpinned by the principle of self-determination as set out in the UN Charter. We are also clear that the Falkland Islands government is entitled to develop a hydrocarbons industry within its waters, and we support this legitimate business in Falklands' territory.\" In a statement yesterday Downing Street said drilling would continue.With Argentina's regional allies lining up to denounce London, the Obama administration, which wants to improve US ties with Latin America without alienating Britain, sought to distance itself from the row.\"I think we are neutral on the question of sovereignty. We do recognise the \u00adcurrent UK administration of the islands,\" said Philip Crowley, of the US state department, before urging \"good-faith dialogue\" between Buenos Aires and London.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits.Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory on Monday when it turned a summit of 32 countries in Mexico into a platform to accuse Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling.Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out.\"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.She said: \"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "United Nations", "Argentina", "UK news", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Oil", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina appeals to UN over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-02-24T10:47:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands intensified today as Argentina prepared to stake its case to the head of the UN backed by regional allies including Brazil.The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, said a summit of 32 countries in Mexico had endorsed a document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week.The Rio Group summit made no immediate official statement, but Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands to Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, is due to meet the UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, in New York today. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK can veto substantive resolutions.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits. Last night, Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, criticised the UN for not pushing more forcefully to reopen the debate over the islands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas.\"What is the geographic, the political or economic explanation for the UK to be in Las Malvinas?\" he asked. \"Could it be because the UK is a permanent member of the UN's security council where they can do everything and the others nothing?\"Today's Times newspaper said a resolution was set to be tabled in the UN general assembly condemning Britain for allowing the owner of the British rig, Desire Petroleum, to begin drilling 60 miles north of the islands after Argentina announced new shipping controls.The defence minister, Bill Rammell, said the government would take \"whatever steps are necessary\" to protect the islands, which had a \"legitimate right\" to develop an oil industry within their waters.At the Rio Group summit, Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain\".Kirchner ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out. \"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.\"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"I would say that is ridiculous, cynical, because few countries have shown more signs of peaceful intentions than Argentina after the advent of democracy,\" she said according to an English translation of her speech posted on the presidency's website.Jan Cheek, a member of the Falklands legislative assembly, said she was \"not surprised\" by the Latin American countries' statement, as they had historically tended to back Argentina in the dispute.She said on BBC Radio 4's Today programme: \"Argentina does regularly take this issue to the UN but it has very little effect on us, mainly because what they are seeking is to make us a colony of Argentina while we have freely chosen, through self-determination, to be an overseas territory of the UK.\"Analysts said Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina to state Falkland Islands case to UN chief"},{"date": "2010-02-24T00:56:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Latin America and Caribbean nations appeared to close ranks behind \u00adArgentina yesterday in its dispute with Britain over oil exploration in Falkland islands' waters.A summit of 32 countries in Mexico endorsed an Argentine document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week, said Argentina's president, Cristina Kirchner.\"We have achieved very strong support, something that legitimates our claims fundamentally against the new petroleum activity.\"The Argentine statement quoted Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, saying: \"The heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Rio Group summit, meeting in Canc\u00fan, made no immediate official statement but there was no doubting support for Argentina from leftist allies. Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas, to Buenos Aires.The Argentine government is seeking to escalate its diplomatic offensive in New York today when its foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, meets with UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, to press Argentina's claim. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the Security Council where the UK can veto substantive resolutions. The longstanding sovereignty stand-off flared earlier this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits which could turn the archipelago into an oil-rich region.Desire Petroleum, a small British company, started drilling on Monday about 60 miles north of the islands. Geologists say there could be up to 60bn barrels although sceptics doubt its commercially viability.The row has brought Anglo-Argentine relations to a new low since the 1982 conflict but Kirchner ruled out any attempt to blockade the islands. Analysts said \u00adBuenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.\"Beyond making Kirchner, and some other Latin American leaders, feel good and perhaps getting a bit of a political bounce at home, the collective regional posture will mean very little on the ground,\" said Michael Shifter of the Inter-American Dialogue thinktank.The main purpose of the two-day summit, which finished yesterday, was to agree on a new pan-regional body which would exclude the US and Canada and eclipse the toothless Washington-based Organisation of American States.However, pledges of solidarity were overshadowed by a row between Ch\u00e1vez and Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe, who reportedly traded insults at a lunch. Ch\u00e1vez reportedly said \"vete al carajo\" \u2013 which can be translated either as \"go to hell\" or \"go fuck yourself\" \u2013 and threatened to walk out while Uribe replied that the Venezuelan should \"be a man\" and stay to argue his case rather than hurl insults from afar. Cuba's president, Ra\u00fal Castro, intervened to cool the row.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Argentina", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Energy industry", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Colombia", "Venezuela", "Cuba", "Mexico", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas"], "title": "Latin American leaders back Argentina over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-02-17T20:01:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Britain and the Falkland Islands today brushed off Argentinian moves to impede oil and gas exploration in British-controlled waters in the south Atlantic, saying there was no threat to shipping.The Foreign Office and Falkland authorities said drilling for hydrocarbon deposits would go ahead without disruption despite an Argentinian effort to control traffic between its ports and the islands.The rebuff came as critics in Buenos Aires accused Argentina's government of playing the nationalist card to distract from mounting domestic woes.Yesterday President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging all vessels using Argentinian ports to seek a permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters, escalating a diplomatic row with London over a prospective \"black gold\" bonanza.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the archipelago, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Phyl Rendell, the Falklands' director of mineral resources, shrugged off talk of a blockade. \"There are very few implications for the Falklands regarding the presidential decree because there are no direct shipping links with Argentina anyway. All oil exploration supplies are being shipped out from Aberdeen. I do not see how the situation can escalate.\"The Foreign Office also played down the possibility of conflict and said it wanted to co-operate with Buenos Aires over south Atlantic issues. \"Regulations governing Argentine territorial waters are a matter for the Argentine authorities. This does not affect Falkland Islands territorial waters, which are controlled by the island authorities.\"Argentina's decree, announced with some fanfare at a press conference, will in theory force all ships bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit. The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply.Kirchner urged the UN to broker talks over the archipelago's sovereignty and accused Britain of dodging negotiations. The president defended the decree, saying: \"I am telling all Argentines that we will keep working for our rights in Malvinas.\"Argentinians consider sovereignty over the islands, which Britain occupied in 1833, a matter of national pride. The prospect of missing an oil bonanza has salted wounds from the 1982 conflict, which cost 649 Argentinian and 258 British lives.A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive this week to start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed. Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest and last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands.Critics accused Kirchner, whose ratings have plunged over inflation, corruption and battles with farmers, of seeking a distraction. The government must not try to hide \"serious internal problems\", the newspaper Clarin said in an editorial.Oil analysts said Argentina's actions would raise the cost of exploration in Argentinian as well as Falkland waters. No commercial deposits have yet been found. A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the Ocean Guardian rig to drill in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies, Rockhopper and Falklands Oil and Gas, and an Australian one, BHP Billiton.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Oil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina steps up row over Falklands oil exploration"},{"date": "2010-02-17T20:00:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Stanley Harbour was a calm, beautiful sight \u00adthis morning on my short drive to the office. But the quietness of the steel-grey water didn't reflect my fury at Argentina's latest attempt to upset life on the Falkland islands.News of an Argentinian decree intended to block shipping movements between the islands and South America has caused consternation. The oil rig Ocean Guardian will soon begin drilling in our waters, and our economy relies on the sale of fishing licences and visits from cruise-ship vessels. Hosts of happy tourists are regularly offloaded on to the streets of Stanley, where they will take tours to farms and penguin rookeries and spend their \u00addollars in our gift shops.The Falklands are also a \u00adtrading partner with Chile \u2013 in our main supermarket, \u00adChilean milk packets and wines sit on shelves near British baked beans. Islanders have spent years building up a relationship with this benign neighbour and we don't want it disrupted by what amounts to a blockade.But we are hardly surprised by the news. In truth the \u00adislanders' mood is one of long-suffering frustration over \u00adArgentina's continued attempts to upset our economy. Recently, it \u00adtold international fishing companies that if they fished in Falklands waters they would not be welcome in Argentinian waters, and there have been accounts of rude treatment at international conferences on every subject from agriculture to oil and minerals.The situation isn't new, and an evening at my local, the Rose Bar, that didn't include at least one conversation on the subject would be unusual. Many islanders would consider life in the Falklands pretty much perfect if it weren't for this hanging over us all. \"What gets to me is never knowing what they're going to come up with from one day to the next,\" my friend Sarah says.We are all still happy for the drilling to go ahead (provocative as Argentina seems to find it). After all, a strengthened economy would help us stand up to the bully, and islanders are also keen to pay Britain for defence.Are we worried about \u00adanother invasion? It seems highly unlikely, but to quote my dad, \"You can't really trust an Argentine government. They're unpredictable. Right now they are so bloody hardline that it's a\u00a0bit like the years \u00adbefore the '82\u00a0war.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "'You can't really trust Argentina': the view from the Falklands"},{"date": "2010-03-09T12:23:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The critics may have been expecting a win for Jacques Audiard's A Prophet or Michael Haneke's The White Ribbon, but victory for Argentina's El Secreto de Sus Ojos (The Secret in Their Eyes) in the foreign language section at Sunday night's Oscars has reportedly sent the South American nation into raptures.The Oscars, broadcast there in the early hours of Monday morning, was yesterday's most-watched television programme, and newspapers scurried to print second editions carrying the country's win on their front pages. Throughout the day, news programmes continued to report on the victory and the reaction to it.Juan Jos\u00e9 Campanella's thriller, based on a novel by Eduardo Sacheri, is set in Buenos Aires in 1999. It centres on a retired investigator trying to solve the 1974 rape and murder of a woman, and highlights the turbulent nature of Argentina in the 1970s, a period in which the country was controlled mainly by military dictatorships.The Secret in Their Eyes emerged as victor despite the high-profile nature of some of its competitors. Audiard's gangster flick had taken the Grand Prix at Cannes, as well as a foreign language Bafta, while Haneke's austere black-and-white drama took the Palme D'Or at Cannes and the foreign language Golden Globe.\"This is a historic moment,\" veteran actor Guillermo Francella, a member of the film's cast, said following the victory. \"The people felt it personally, which is why there is so much joy in Argentina.\"\"It was really miraculous because the films they were competing against were excellent,\" said Ricardo Dar\u00edn, who plays the lead role of detective Benjam\u00edn Esposito.Earlier this year The Secret in Their Eyes became the second most successful film in the history of its country at the box office, surpassed only by Leonardo Favio's 1975 classic, Nazareno Cruz y el lobo (Nazareno Cruz and the Wolf). It had already taken the best Hispanic-American film prize at the Goyas, ahead of Peruvian rival The Milk of Sorrow, which also lost out at the Oscars.\"We're happy because we won ... It was a fantastic film I saw twice and which had an impact on me,\" said the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner. \"With Campanella's talent and the huge public success in Argentina, we showed that this film could win the Oscar.\"The last time Argentina won the best foreign language Oscar was in 1986, for Luis Puenzo's Official History (La Historia Oficial). The country remains the only country in Latin America to have won the award.Campanella himself is relatively well-known in Hollywood, having directed episodes of House and Law & Order, among other series. His film Son of the Bride (El Hijo de la Novia), which also starred Dar\u00edn, was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign-language film in 2002.", "tags": ["Oscars", "Film", "Culture", "Television", "Oscars 2010"], "title": "Argentina celebrates Oscars triumph"},{"date": "2010-02-17T07:27:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has tightened controls on all shipping to and from the Falkland Islands in another escalation of its row with Britain over oil and gas exploration in the south Atlantic.President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging vessels which use Argentine ports to seek a government permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters.\"Any boat that wants to travel between ports on the Argentine mainland to the Islas Malvinas, South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \u2026 must first ask for permission from the Argentine government,\" An\u00edbal Fern\u00e1ndez, the cabinet chief, told a news conference in Buenos Aires yesterday.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the islands, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Its ire has been stoked by imminent exploration for hydrocarbon deposits which could turn the archipelago's 2,900 inhabitants into oil barons. A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive today and soon start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed.A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the rig to drill prospects in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies and an Australian one \u2013 Rockhopper, and Falklands Oil and Gas; and BHP Billiton \u2013 which also have exploration contracts.They will use the rig in rotation throughout 2010. It will be the first drilling in Falkland waters since Shell suspended exploration in 1998 after oil prices slumped to $12 a barrel.Oil companies are bullish about prospects this time round but island authorities caution that no commercial deposits have yet been found.Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest. Last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands and the foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, met the governor of Tierra del Fuego province, Fabiana Ros, to co-ordinate Argentina's response.Yesterday's decree will force all ships \u2013 not just those involved in hydrocarbon exploration \u2013 bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit.The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply. Analysts said Buenos Aires was giving companies a warning and driving up the costs of business with the Falklands.A British embassy spokesman played down the decree's significance. \"The way in which Argentina applies its laws within Argentine territory is a matter for Argentina \u2026 the United Kingdom has no doubts about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and the surrounding maritime area.\"Despite mounting domestic woes for the Argentinian and British governments neither is expected to seek diversion in another military conflict. The 1982 war, which cost 649 Argentine and 258 British lives, doomed Argentina's dictatorship and forged Margaret Thatcher's reputation as Britain's \"iron lady\" prime minister.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Gas", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina imposes shipping controls in Falklands oil row"},{"date": "2010-02-25T00:31:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina last night intensified its diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands by taking the case to the United Nations.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, spelled out Buenos Aires's demands in a meeting in New York with the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, just a day after mobilising Latin American and Caribbean support.Taiana told reporters afterwards that Ban was not happy that tensions had worsened because of Britain's decision to start drilling and was willing to continue his \"good offices\" mission.The minister said the meeting was \"very cordial, positive\" but did not say if Ban had agreed to pressure London over the islands' sovereignty. The secretary general made no immediate comment.Argentina has demanded an immediate cessation of the British drilling for oil and gas that started this week, terming it \"the latest illegitimate and unilateral actions by the UK\". The next step would be to table a resolution at the UN general assembly.The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK would be able to veto substantive resolutions.Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, added pressure by saying the council was an anachronism tilted in favour of western powers. He said: \"It is not possible that Argentina is not the owner while England is, despite being 14,000km away.\"He also repeated long-standing complaints that Brazil and other emerging powers should be included as permanent members of the security council.British officials have privately admitted frustration, but no great surprise, that mainstream Latin leaders have thrown their weight behind Buenos Aires.After the Argentinian minister's meeting with the UN secretary-general, Sir Mark Lyall Grant, the UK's permanent representative to the UN, reiterated British claims to sovereignty over the Falkland islands, South Georgia and the Sandwich Islands.\"This position is underpinned by the principle of self-determination as set out in the UN Charter. We are also clear that the Falkland Islands government is entitled to develop a hydrocarbons industry within its waters, and we support this legitimate business in Falklands' territory.\" In a statement yesterday Downing Street said drilling would continue.With Argentina's regional allies lining up to denounce London, the Obama administration, which wants to improve US ties with Latin America without alienating Britain, sought to distance itself from the row.\"I think we are neutral on the question of sovereignty. We do recognise the \u00adcurrent UK administration of the islands,\" said Philip Crowley, of the US state department, before urging \"good-faith dialogue\" between Buenos Aires and London.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits.Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory on Monday when it turned a summit of 32 countries in Mexico into a platform to accuse Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling.Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out.\"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.She said: \"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "United Nations", "Argentina", "UK news", "World news", "Oil", "Business", "Oil", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina appeals to UN over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-02-24T10:47:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A diplomatic offensive against Britain's oil exploration off the Falkland Islands intensified today as Argentina prepared to stake its case to the head of the UN backed by regional allies including Brazil.The Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, said a summit of 32 countries in Mexico had endorsed a document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week.The Rio Group summit made no immediate official statement, but Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands to Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, is due to meet the UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, in New York today. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK can veto substantive resolutions.The sovereignty standoff flared this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits. Last night, Brazil's president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, criticised the UN for not pushing more forcefully to reopen the debate over the islands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas.\"What is the geographic, the political or economic explanation for the UK to be in Las Malvinas?\" he asked. \"Could it be because the UK is a permanent member of the UN's security council where they can do everything and the others nothing?\"Today's Times newspaper said a resolution was set to be tabled in the UN general assembly condemning Britain for allowing the owner of the British rig, Desire Petroleum, to begin drilling 60 miles north of the islands after Argentina announced new shipping controls.The defence minister, Bill Rammell, said the government would take \"whatever steps are necessary\" to protect the islands, which had a \"legitimate right\" to develop an oil industry within their waters.At the Rio Group summit, Argentina presented a statement quoting the Mexican president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, as saying that \"the heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain\".Kirchner ruled out any plans to try to keep the British boats or rigs out. \"We do not believe in methods like blockades,\" she told reporters. But in her speech at the summit she reiterated Argentina's claim to the islands and blamed the Foreign Office for fanning tensions.\"When in these last few days England decided to install an oil rig offshore and Argentina \u2013 in exercise of its domestic law \u2013 made decisions as a sovereign state, the Foreign Office floated the idea of a potential war threat by Argentina.\"I would say that is ridiculous, cynical, because few countries have shown more signs of peaceful intentions than Argentina after the advent of democracy,\" she said according to an English translation of her speech posted on the presidency's website.Jan Cheek, a member of the Falklands legislative assembly, said she was \"not surprised\" by the Latin American countries' statement, as they had historically tended to back Argentina in the dispute.She said on BBC Radio 4's Today programme: \"Argentina does regularly take this issue to the UN but it has very little effect on us, mainly because what they are seeking is to make us a colony of Argentina while we have freely chosen, through self-determination, to be an overseas territory of the UK.\"Analysts said Buenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "United Nations", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "World news", "Politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina to state Falkland Islands case to UN chief"},{"date": "2010-02-24T00:56:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Latin America and Caribbean nations appeared to close ranks behind \u00adArgentina yesterday in its dispute with Britain over oil exploration in Falkland islands' waters.A summit of 32 countries in Mexico endorsed an Argentine document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin this week, said Argentina's president, Cristina Kirchner.\"We have achieved very strong support, something that legitimates our claims fundamentally against the new petroleum activity.\"The Argentine statement quoted Mexico's president, Felipe Calder\u00f3n, saying: \"The heads of state represented here reaffirm their support for the legitimate rights of the republic of Argentina in the sovereignty dispute with Great Britain.\"The Rio Group summit, meeting in Canc\u00fan, made no immediate official statement but there was no doubting support for Argentina from leftist allies. Venezuela's Hugo Ch\u00e1vez and Nicaragua's Daniel Ortega demanded the UK hand back the Falklands, which Argentinians call Las Malvinas, to Buenos Aires.The Argentine government is seeking to escalate its diplomatic offensive in New York today when its foreign minister, Jorge Taiana, meets with UN secretary-general, Ban Ki-moon, to press Argentina's claim. The UN has called for talks between Britain and Argentina but has little power to intervene without the backing of the Security Council where the UK can veto substantive resolutions. The longstanding sovereignty stand-off flared earlier this month over the arrival of a rig, the Ocean Guardian, which is to drill offshore for oil and gas deposits which could turn the archipelago into an oil-rich region.Desire Petroleum, a small British company, started drilling on Monday about 60 miles north of the islands. Geologists say there could be up to 60bn barrels although sceptics doubt its commercially viability.The row has brought Anglo-Argentine relations to a new low since the 1982 conflict but Kirchner ruled out any attempt to blockade the islands. Analysts said \u00adBuenos Aires scored a diplomatic victory in mustering regional solidarity but that the practical effects were negligible.\"Beyond making Kirchner, and some other Latin American leaders, feel good and perhaps getting a bit of a political bounce at home, the collective regional posture will mean very little on the ground,\" said Michael Shifter of the Inter-American Dialogue thinktank.The main purpose of the two-day summit, which finished yesterday, was to agree on a new pan-regional body which would exclude the US and Canada and eclipse the toothless Washington-based Organisation of American States.However, pledges of solidarity were overshadowed by a row between Ch\u00e1vez and Colombia's president, Alvaro Uribe, who reportedly traded insults at a lunch. Ch\u00e1vez reportedly said \"vete al carajo\" \u2013 which can be translated either as \"go to hell\" or \"go fuck yourself\" \u2013 and threatened to walk out while Uribe replied that the Venezuelan should \"be a man\" and stay to argue his case rather than hurl insults from afar. Cuba's president, Ra\u00fal Castro, intervened to cool the row.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Argentina", "Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Energy industry", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "Colombia", "Venezuela", "Cuba", "Mexico", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas"], "title": "Latin American leaders back Argentina over Falklands oil drilling"},{"date": "2010-02-17T20:01:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Britain and the Falkland Islands today brushed off Argentinian moves to impede oil and gas exploration in British-controlled waters in the south Atlantic, saying there was no threat to shipping.The Foreign Office and Falkland authorities said drilling for hydrocarbon deposits would go ahead without disruption despite an Argentinian effort to control traffic between its ports and the islands.The rebuff came as critics in Buenos Aires accused Argentina's government of playing the nationalist card to distract from mounting domestic woes.Yesterday President Cristina Kirchner issued a decree obliging all vessels using Argentinian ports to seek a permit if they enter or leave British-controlled waters, escalating a diplomatic row with London over a prospective \"black gold\" bonanza.Argentina lost a brief 1982 war over the archipelago, which it calls the Malvinas, but still claims sovereignty and describes the British presence as an occupation.Phyl Rendell, the Falklands' director of mineral resources, shrugged off talk of a blockade. \"There are very few implications for the Falklands regarding the presidential decree because there are no direct shipping links with Argentina anyway. All oil exploration supplies are being shipped out from Aberdeen. I do not see how the situation can escalate.\"The Foreign Office also played down the possibility of conflict and said it wanted to co-operate with Buenos Aires over south Atlantic issues. \"Regulations governing Argentine territorial waters are a matter for the Argentine authorities. This does not affect Falkland Islands territorial waters, which are controlled by the island authorities.\"Argentina's decree, announced with some fanfare at a press conference, will in theory force all ships bound for the islands or travelling through waters claimed by Argentina to secure the new permit. The decree did not specify, and officials did not elaborate, what sanctions Argentina may levy on ships which do not comply.Kirchner urged the UN to broker talks over the archipelago's sovereignty and accused Britain of dodging negotiations. The president defended the decree, saying: \"I am telling all Argentines that we will keep working for our rights in Malvinas.\"Argentinians consider sovereignty over the islands, which Britain occupied in 1833, a matter of national pride. The prospect of missing an oil bonanza has salted wounds from the 1982 conflict, which cost 649 Argentinian and 258 British lives.A rig, the Ocean Guardian, is expected to arrive this week to start drilling 100 miles offshore. Geological surveys suggest up to 60bn barrels may lie beneath the seabed. Earlier this month Argentina lodged a formal diplomatic protest and last week it prevented a cargo ship from sailing on suspicion it was carrying oil drilling equipment to the islands.Critics accused Kirchner, whose ratings have plunged over inflation, corruption and battles with farmers, of seeking a distraction. The government must not try to hide \"serious internal problems\", the newspaper Clarin said in an editorial.Oil analysts said Argentina's actions would raise the cost of exploration in Argentinian as well as Falkland waters. No commercial deposits have yet been found. A British company, Desire Petroleum, has hired the Ocean Guardian rig to drill in the North Falkland basin and will later lease it to two other British companies, Rockhopper and Falklands Oil and Gas, and an Australian one, BHP Billiton.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Oil", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina steps up row over Falklands oil exploration"},{"date": "2010-02-17T20:00:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Stanley Harbour was a calm, beautiful sight \u00adthis morning on my short drive to the office. But the quietness of the steel-grey water didn't reflect my fury at Argentina's latest attempt to upset life on the Falkland islands.News of an Argentinian decree intended to block shipping movements between the islands and South America has caused consternation. The oil rig Ocean Guardian will soon begin drilling in our waters, and our economy relies on the sale of fishing licences and visits from cruise-ship vessels. Hosts of happy tourists are regularly offloaded on to the streets of Stanley, where they will take tours to farms and penguin rookeries and spend their \u00addollars in our gift shops.The Falklands are also a \u00adtrading partner with Chile \u2013 in our main supermarket, \u00adChilean milk packets and wines sit on shelves near British baked beans. Islanders have spent years building up a relationship with this benign neighbour and we don't want it disrupted by what amounts to a blockade.But we are hardly surprised by the news. In truth the \u00adislanders' mood is one of long-suffering frustration over \u00adArgentina's continued attempts to upset our economy. Recently, it \u00adtold international fishing companies that if they fished in Falklands waters they would not be welcome in Argentinian waters, and there have been accounts of rude treatment at international conferences on every subject from agriculture to oil and minerals.The situation isn't new, and an evening at my local, the Rose Bar, that didn't include at least one conversation on the subject would be unusual. Many islanders would consider life in the Falklands pretty much perfect if it weren't for this hanging over us all. \"What gets to me is never knowing what they're going to come up with from one day to the next,\" my friend Sarah says.We are all still happy for the drilling to go ahead (provocative as Argentina seems to find it). After all, a strengthened economy would help us stand up to the bully, and islanders are also keen to pay Britain for defence.Are we worried about \u00adanother invasion? It seems highly unlikely, but to quote my dad, \"You can't really trust an Argentine government. They're unpredictable. Right now they are so bloody hardline that it's a\u00a0bit like the years \u00adbefore the '82\u00a0war.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "'You can't really trust Argentina': the view from the Falklands"},{"date": "2010-03-02T10:04:05Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Hillary Clinton has said the US is ready to help Argentina and Britain resolve tensions over the ownership of the Falkland Islands.The US secretary of state is in Buenos Aires as part of a five-day South American tour which will also see her visit earthquake-hit Chile.Tensions between Argentina and the UK have flared in recent weeks over British oil exploration in the islands' waters.Clinton met Argentinian president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner in Montevideo, Uruguay, yesterday, before flying to Buenos Aires for further talks today.Clinton said: \"We are not interested in, and have no real role in, determining what [Britain and Argentina] decide between the two of them. What we want to do is facilitate them talking to each other.\"She and Kirchner were in Uruguay to attend the inauguration of President Jos\u00e9 Mujica. Clinton had reportedly only intended to spend 10 minutes talking with Kirchner in Montevideo, before a late change in travel plans saw her depart for Buenos Aires.Kirchner has been pushing Britain to engage in talks over the Falklands, which Argentina calls Las Malvinas, since the arrival of the Ocean Guardian oil rig in the islands' waters.\"What we have requested is mediation as a friendly country of both Argentina and the United Kingdom,\" Kirchner said.She added that Argentina wants those the talks to take place within a framework established by the United Nations following the 1982 conflict. \"That's it. The only thing we have asked for is just to have them sit down at the table. I don't think that's too much.\"Desire Petroleum, a small British company, started drilling about 60 miles north of the islands on 22 February. Geologists say there could be up to 60bn barrels of oil in the area, although sceptics doubt its commercial viability.Talking to reporters en route to Buenos Aires last night, Clinton agreed on the need for talks between the countries, but did not spell out what role the US would play in any discourse.\"We would like to see Argentina and the UK sit down and resolve the issues between them in a peaceful and productive way,\" she said.Argentina has been stepping up its diplomatic offensive in the last few days. Last week a summit of 32 countries in Mexico endorsed an Argentinian document accusing Britain of flouting international law by permitting drilling to begin. On Thursday Argentina appealed to the United Nations to put pressure on Britain over the islands' sovereignty.The UN has called for talks between the two countries, but would be unable to intervene without the backing of the security council, where the UK would be able to veto substantive resolutions.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Hillary Clinton", "Oil", "UK news", "Business", "US news", "United Nations", "Americas"], "title": "Clinton: US will help resolve Falklands oil row"},{"date": "2010-05-18T17:47:02Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Britain today batted away an Argentinian request to hold talks on the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands, which has been a British territory since 1833.The rebuff from the Foreign Office followed an overture from Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, who was attending an EU-Latin America summit in Madrid.Despite a changeover in government, Britain is sticking to its position that it is up the islanders to decide on sovereignty.\"We have no doubt about our sovereignty over the Falkland Islands. The principle of self-determination as set out in the UN charter applies,\" the Foreign Office minister of state, Jeremy Browne, said in a statement.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Foreign policy", "Argentina", "UK news", "Politics", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Britain rejects Falkland Islands talks with Argentina"},{"date": "2010-05-18T17:47:02Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Britain today batted away an Argentinian request to hold talks on the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands, which has been a British territory since 1833.The rebuff from the Foreign Office followed an overture from Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, who was attending an EU-Latin America summit in Madrid.Despite a changeover in government, Britain is sticking to its position that it is up the islanders to decide on sovereignty.\"We have no doubt about our sovereignty over the Falkland Islands. The principle of self-determination as set out in the UN charter applies,\" the Foreign Office minister of state, Jeremy Browne, said in a statement.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Foreign policy", "Argentina", "UK news", "Politics", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Britain rejects Falkland Islands talks with Argentina"},{"date": "2010-06-25T19:20:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A little over two weeks ago, on the morning of the World Cup finals, Diego Maradona faced the world's media and did what he always does: wave his hands like a traffic policeman in the Buenos Aires rush hour, hold forth about every topic imaginable and flit from quiet contemplation to frantic hollering, often within the same answer. Most regarded him as an eccentric curiosity \u2013 a manager who had used 107 players in qualification, didn't have much idea of his best team, and had repeatedly failed to get the best out of the world's best player in a generation.Things have certainly changed. Three successive victories in Group B \u2013 achieved through an unlikely combination of bear-hugs, laughter, cajoling, coarse humour and a tactical sophistication few expected \u2013 have, inevitably, led to huge expectation back home. As Lucas Neder from Argentina TV station Tyc/Telefe put it: \"No one back home gave this team a chance before this tournament started, now no one believes they can lose.\"Even Lionel Messi, who was made Argentina's youngest-ever captain against Greece, finally seems settled in the colours of the Albicelestes. So how has Maradona done it? According to Sergio Goycochea, a team-mate at the 1990 World Cup: \"It's only now that he has had a chance to be a full month with the entire squad. So this now allows him to connect with the players, understand them and give them his support.\" The difference is striking.Having given many of his second string a run-out during the victory against Greece on Tuesday night, Maradona is planning to return to the players who began Argentina's campaign with that 1-0 victory over Nigeria, with two crucial differences. TAccording to journalists close to the national squad, the rugged V\u00e9lez S\u00e1rsfield centre-back Nicol\u00e1s Otamendi will continue at right-back after replacing the suspended Jon\u00e1s Guti\u00e9rrez against Greece, while Juan Sebasti\u00e1n Ver\u00f3n, \"the little witch\", who is closest of anyone to Maradona in the squad, will be dropped to make way for Maxi Rodr\u00edguez.Both decisions smack of common sense. Guti\u00e9rrez, a converted left-midfielder-cum-right-back was shambolically out of his depth against Nigeria and Greece and, while Ver\u00f3n's passes are still as soft and loving as a baby's caress, he lollops around even more slowly than he did in his prime. Rodr\u00edguez, while not in the class of Esteban Cambiasso, who was strangely left out of Argentina's squad, is a little quicker and snappier than Ver\u00f3n, and alongside Javier Mascherano will certainly stiffen the midfield.It was Rodr\u00edguez, of course, who scored a brilliant extra-time volley when Argentina faced Mexico four years ago in Germany \u2013 a 2-1 loss that condemned the Mexicans to their fourth successive second-round exit. So it is perhaps not surprising that the Mexican media fears Javier Aguirre's team will tumble out at this stage again. But neither their pessimism, or Tuesday's defeat against Uruguay, has winded the confidence of Mexico's close-knit squad. They are ready for revenge.\"We are better than that Mexico team, which didn't have so many players in European teams,\" insisted their captain, Rafael M\u00e1rquez. \"Argentina has the best player in the world, Leo Messi, and that makes them more complete. But we will try to change all that. I have a thorn in my side from four years ago and hopefully on Sunday we can take it out.\"He also urged his countrymen to get behind the team, saying: \"There is always pessimism in Mexico. But we have to make them believe in us by working hard and fighting to make Mexicans happy. We need to change this mentality not only in football but other aspects of life to ensure we are better in every sense of the word. To be great, we have to set aside this mentality of being pessimistic.\"Much rests on whether the crop of young players that Aguirre has called \"the best generation in Mexican history\" can live up to his boast. Striker Carlos Vela remains a major doubt for Sunday's game with his twanged hamstring, although he did participate in passing drills in small spaces alongside Giovani Dos Santos and Guillermo Franco yesterday. Franco is expected to start up front, with recent Manchester United signing Javier Hern\u00e1ndez on the bench.Aguirre has had a strained relationship with the Mexican media at this World Cup. Access to training sessions has been so limited that Fifa had to intervene, and he has been accused of being too nervy ahead of Sunday's match. But Mexico goalkeeper Oscar P\u00e9rez, a veteran of two World Cup campaigns, reckons the team can use this whirlpool of negative energy to their advantage. \"Hopefully we'll have enough confidence to use this pessimism to give us a good feeling. It can help,\" he said. \"We have to change this pessimism, it's not healthy.\"Mexico's record against Argentina \u2013 four wins in 25 internationals \u2013 hardly provides reason for optimism. And nor does the fact that they have only reached the quarter-finals in 1970 and 1986, when the World Cup was held on home soil. But Aguirre's team is blessed with the impetuousness of youth and built to attack. Argentina have the bigger guns, but perhaps the weaker defence too. It could end up being a shoot-out in Soccer City. A repeat of 2006's minor classic would down go nicely.", "tags": ["World Cup 2010", "Argentina", "Diego Maradona", "World Cup"], "title": "World Cup 2010: Diego Maradona and Argentina begin to believe"},{"date": "2010-09-07T08:02:54Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Adam Ledezma, director of a news programme for Mundo Villa TV, a cable channel in a large slum in the centre of Argentina's capital, Buenos Aires, was stabbed to death on Saturday.Ledezma, a 33-year-old Bolivian, was also a correspondent for the newspaper Mundo Villa. He had received threats, said his wife, Ruth. Sources: Knight Centre In Spanish: Perfil/La Naci\u00f3n", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Argentina", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "TV journalist stabbed to death in Argentina"},{"date": "2010-09-07T08:02:54Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Adam Ledezma, director of a news programme for Mundo Villa TV, a cable channel in a large slum in the centre of Argentina's capital, Buenos Aires, was stabbed to death on Saturday.Ledezma, a 33-year-old Bolivian, was also a correspondent for the newspaper Mundo Villa. He had received threats, said his wife, Ruth. Sources: Knight Centre In Spanish: Perfil/La Naci\u00f3n", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Argentina", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "TV journalist stabbed to death in Argentina"},{"date": "2010-09-20T17:47:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A year ago, Cristina Kirchner crashed into a mid-term crisis that threatened her survival as Argentina's first elected woman president. Robbed of a congressional majority in legislative elections and plagued by a hostile press, farm strikes and protests over high inflation, the \"new Evita\" was written off as a lame duck destined for political oblivion.But like Evaita and her husband, General Juan Per\u00f3n, co-founders of the Per\u00f3nist party nearly 70 years ago, Cristina and her husband, N\u00e9stor, thrive on adversity.Overcoming a collapse in approval ratings to under 20%, the Kirchners now seem poised to win a third successive presidential election \u2013 something not even the Per\u00f3ns achieved.\"I have never seen a case before of an Argentine president bouncing back in the polls like this,\" said Eduardo Fidanza of the Poliarqu\u00eda polling company.An unexpected economic recovery fuelled by government spending has helped double the president's rating to just under 40%, which is considered enough to win presidential elections set for October 2011.After stalling last year, economic growth is predicted to grow by 8.5% this year. Tax revenue is up, and shopping malls are full despite inflation estimated at around 25%.\"Inflation was mainly responsible for the president's sagging numbers,\" said Fidanza. \"But nobody seems to mind any more now that there is growth.\"The government has two good years ahead of it, said Agust\u00edn Rossi, head of the Kirchner bloc in congress's lower house. \"This economic growth will mean greater social inclusion and more jobs.\"The divided opposition's failure to consolidate last year's capture of congress has played into the first couple's hands. All the opposition presidential contenders lag behind them.\"Either Cristina or her husband would defeat the opposition easily if elections were held today,\" said Fidanza.N\u00e9stor, 60, who is more popular than his wife and preceded her as president, is tipped to run next year; he would hand the baton back after his term. There is concern, however, about his health: he was released from hospital last week after a heart procedure to unblock a coronary artery for the second time this year.Mar\u00eda Eugenia Estenssoro, a senator with the Coalici\u00f3n C\u00edvica party, said Argentina's democracy was at risk from a couple who hoped to keep power until 2020. \"This married couple have usurped power through what amounts to an elective dictatorship,\" she warned. \"Argentina is looking for a saviour who can take on the Kirchners.\"Several major media outlets have echoed the accusation, notably the conservative daily La Naci\u00f3n and the middle-of-the-road Clar\u00edn. Both newspapers have sided with the opposition while reporting government corruption, triggering a vicious battle with the first couple.To end what she described as an \"information monopoly\" by Clar\u00edn's media empire, Kirchner pushed new regulations that will force it to halt lucrative cable and internet access concessions. \"There is an evident official strategy against the media, a plan to silence the press,\" said the Clar\u00edn CEO, H\u00e9ctor Magnetto.Things turned personal last month when Kirchner presented a voluminous report accusing the two newspapers of conspiring with the 1976-83 military dictatorship to imprison and torture the family of David Graiver, a financier who died in a mysterious plane crash in Mexico in 1976. His widow, Lidia Papaleo, sold one of Graiver's companies, the newsprint manufacturer Papel Prensa, to Clar\u00edn and La Naci\u00f3n. A few months later, the dictatorship kidnapped and tortured Papaleo and members of her family.Kirchner has ordered a criminal investigation into the role of Magnetto and La Naci\u00f3n's director, Bartolom\u00e9 Mitre, accusing them of \"crimes against humanity\".Both men reject the accusations. \"Papel Prensa has been in operation for over 30 years and the purchase was approved by the courts after the return of democracy in 1983,\" Magnetto told the Guardian.The accusation has also been rejected by Graiver's brother, Isidoro, who said the sale had been completed before the kidnappings.Fidanza said the president was prevailing: \"Clar\u00edn is the clear loser in this war. Young people are cynical about big media and feel they have a negative viewpoint of the Kirchners.\"Young viewers are abandoning traditional news outlets in favour of the MTV-style news programme, 6,7,8 on the state channel Canal 7, which criticises the first couple's enemies.It is the creation of the self-professed \"Kirchnerista\" producer Diego Gvirtz. \"I am paranoid,\" he said by way of greeting at his production office, \"and I don't believe in press objectivity.\"A former producer for Clar\u00edn's TV channel Canal 13, Gvirtz has no love for his ex-employer Magnetto. \"People who committed crimes must go to jail,\" he said. Gvirtz's partisanship (the show's musical theme chants \"We are officialist bullshit\") has viewers enthralled.Fidanza said it all added up to a probable dynasty for the first couple. \"The president's recovery is remarkable,\" he said.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina poll sees Kirchners return from oblivion"},{"date": "2010-09-07T08:02:54Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Adam Ledezma, director of a news programme for Mundo Villa TV, a cable channel in a large slum in the centre of Argentina's capital, Buenos Aires, was stabbed to death on Saturday.Ledezma, a 33-year-old Bolivian, was also a correspondent for the newspaper Mundo Villa. He had received threats, said his wife, Ruth. Sources: Knight Centre In Spanish: Perfil/La Naci\u00f3n", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Argentina", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "TV journalist stabbed to death in Argentina"},{"date": "2010-09-20T17:47:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A year ago, Cristina Kirchner crashed into a mid-term crisis that threatened her survival as Argentina's first elected woman president. Robbed of a congressional majority in legislative elections and plagued by a hostile press, farm strikes and protests over high inflation, the \"new Evita\" was written off as a lame duck destined for political oblivion.But like Evaita and her husband, General Juan Per\u00f3n, co-founders of the Per\u00f3nist party nearly 70 years ago, Cristina and her husband, N\u00e9stor, thrive on adversity.Overcoming a collapse in approval ratings to under 20%, the Kirchners now seem poised to win a third successive presidential election \u2013 something not even the Per\u00f3ns achieved.\"I have never seen a case before of an Argentine president bouncing back in the polls like this,\" said Eduardo Fidanza of the Poliarqu\u00eda polling company.An unexpected economic recovery fuelled by government spending has helped double the president's rating to just under 40%, which is considered enough to win presidential elections set for October 2011.After stalling last year, economic growth is predicted to grow by 8.5% this year. Tax revenue is up, and shopping malls are full despite inflation estimated at around 25%.\"Inflation was mainly responsible for the president's sagging numbers,\" said Fidanza. \"But nobody seems to mind any more now that there is growth.\"The government has two good years ahead of it, said Agust\u00edn Rossi, head of the Kirchner bloc in congress's lower house. \"This economic growth will mean greater social inclusion and more jobs.\"The divided opposition's failure to consolidate last year's capture of congress has played into the first couple's hands. All the opposition presidential contenders lag behind them.\"Either Cristina or her husband would defeat the opposition easily if elections were held today,\" said Fidanza.N\u00e9stor, 60, who is more popular than his wife and preceded her as president, is tipped to run next year; he would hand the baton back after his term. There is concern, however, about his health: he was released from hospital last week after a heart procedure to unblock a coronary artery for the second time this year.Mar\u00eda Eugenia Estenssoro, a senator with the Coalici\u00f3n C\u00edvica party, said Argentina's democracy was at risk from a couple who hoped to keep power until 2020. \"This married couple have usurped power through what amounts to an elective dictatorship,\" she warned. \"Argentina is looking for a saviour who can take on the Kirchners.\"Several major media outlets have echoed the accusation, notably the conservative daily La Naci\u00f3n and the middle-of-the-road Clar\u00edn. Both newspapers have sided with the opposition while reporting government corruption, triggering a vicious battle with the first couple.To end what she described as an \"information monopoly\" by Clar\u00edn's media empire, Kirchner pushed new regulations that will force it to halt lucrative cable and internet access concessions. \"There is an evident official strategy against the media, a plan to silence the press,\" said the Clar\u00edn CEO, H\u00e9ctor Magnetto.Things turned personal last month when Kirchner presented a voluminous report accusing the two newspapers of conspiring with the 1976-83 military dictatorship to imprison and torture the family of David Graiver, a financier who died in a mysterious plane crash in Mexico in 1976. His widow, Lidia Papaleo, sold one of Graiver's companies, the newsprint manufacturer Papel Prensa, to Clar\u00edn and La Naci\u00f3n. A few months later, the dictatorship kidnapped and tortured Papaleo and members of her family.Kirchner has ordered a criminal investigation into the role of Magnetto and La Naci\u00f3n's director, Bartolom\u00e9 Mitre, accusing them of \"crimes against humanity\".Both men reject the accusations. \"Papel Prensa has been in operation for over 30 years and the purchase was approved by the courts after the return of democracy in 1983,\" Magnetto told the Guardian.The accusation has also been rejected by Graiver's brother, Isidoro, who said the sale had been completed before the kidnappings.Fidanza said the president was prevailing: \"Clar\u00edn is the clear loser in this war. Young people are cynical about big media and feel they have a negative viewpoint of the Kirchners.\"Young viewers are abandoning traditional news outlets in favour of the MTV-style news programme, 6,7,8 on the state channel Canal 7, which criticises the first couple's enemies.It is the creation of the self-professed \"Kirchnerista\" producer Diego Gvirtz. \"I am paranoid,\" he said by way of greeting at his production office, \"and I don't believe in press objectivity.\"A former producer for Clar\u00edn's TV channel Canal 13, Gvirtz has no love for his ex-employer Magnetto. \"People who committed crimes must go to jail,\" he said. Gvirtz's partisanship (the show's musical theme chants \"We are officialist bullshit\") has viewers enthralled.Fidanza said it all added up to a probable dynasty for the first couple. \"The president's recovery is remarkable,\" he said.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina poll sees Kirchners return from oblivion"},{"date": "2010-08-10T17:57:08Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thousands of girls and women in Argentina suffer needlessly because they cannot access contraception, legal abortion and other reproductive health care services, a Human Rights Watch report said today.An obstacle course of prejudice and shoddy or absent services forced many to seek illegal and often unsafe abortions, it stated. The findings challenged the country's image as a progressive beacon in South America.The report, Illusions of Care: Lack of Accountability for Reproductive Rights in Argentina, said some 40% of pregnancies ended in abortion \u2013 one of the world's highest rates \u2013 because laws guaranteeing free and universal contraception were ignored.\"The laws are in place but they have been systematically flouted by hospitals and doctors across the country who refuse, either through ignorance of the law or personal decision, to provide access,\" said Marianne Mollmann, one of the report's authors.Given abortion is illegal it is shocking that there are an estimated 500,000 annual abortions, with many women suffering health problems because of botched procedures, said Mollmann. \"That is a clear indicator of how badly the government is failing to provide universal access to contraception.\"There is an exception for women who state that they have been raped, but many doctors insisted on a court order before operating, said Silvia Oizerovich, a health official from Buenos Aires . \"Doctors don't understand that for a legal abortion you don't need to go to a court.\"Barriers to reproductive care included long delays, unnecessary referrals to other clinics, demands for spousal permission contrary to law, financial costs and in some cases outright refusal of treatment.\"Women need dependable care throughout their reproductive lives,\" said Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, the director of Americas' Human Rights Watch. \"But in Argentina, it's more like a lottery: you might be lucky enough to get decent care but you are more likely to be stuck with deficient or even abusive services.President Cristina Kirchner's administration won liberal plaudits last month when Argentina became Latin America's first country to legalise gay marriage but critics said pressure from the Catholic church and conservative groups continued to curb reproductive rights.\"The government has a double message. It's big on human rights but it hasn't managed to consolidate women's rights,\" said Mabel Bianco, of the Foundation for Study and Research on Women advocacy group.Contraception became legal in 1985 but some husbands beat up their wives if they discovered them using contraception, said Mollman. \"The problem is that many people who still believe contraception programmes should not exist.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Abortion", "World news", "Maternal health", "Global development"], "title": "Attitude towards contraception in Argentina puts women at risk"},{"date": "2010-09-07T08:02:54Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Adam Ledezma, director of a news programme for Mundo Villa TV, a cable channel in a large slum in the centre of Argentina's capital, Buenos Aires, was stabbed to death on Saturday.Ledezma, a 33-year-old Bolivian, was also a correspondent for the newspaper Mundo Villa. He had received threats, said his wife, Ruth. Sources: Knight Centre In Spanish: Perfil/La Naci\u00f3n", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Argentina", "Press freedom", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "TV journalist stabbed to death in Argentina"},{"date": "2010-09-20T17:47:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A year ago, Cristina Kirchner crashed into a mid-term crisis that threatened her survival as Argentina's first elected woman president. Robbed of a congressional majority in legislative elections and plagued by a hostile press, farm strikes and protests over high inflation, the \"new Evita\" was written off as a lame duck destined for political oblivion.But like Evaita and her husband, General Juan Per\u00f3n, co-founders of the Per\u00f3nist party nearly 70 years ago, Cristina and her husband, N\u00e9stor, thrive on adversity.Overcoming a collapse in approval ratings to under 20%, the Kirchners now seem poised to win a third successive presidential election \u2013 something not even the Per\u00f3ns achieved.\"I have never seen a case before of an Argentine president bouncing back in the polls like this,\" said Eduardo Fidanza of the Poliarqu\u00eda polling company.An unexpected economic recovery fuelled by government spending has helped double the president's rating to just under 40%, which is considered enough to win presidential elections set for October 2011.After stalling last year, economic growth is predicted to grow by 8.5% this year. Tax revenue is up, and shopping malls are full despite inflation estimated at around 25%.\"Inflation was mainly responsible for the president's sagging numbers,\" said Fidanza. \"But nobody seems to mind any more now that there is growth.\"The government has two good years ahead of it, said Agust\u00edn Rossi, head of the Kirchner bloc in congress's lower house. \"This economic growth will mean greater social inclusion and more jobs.\"The divided opposition's failure to consolidate last year's capture of congress has played into the first couple's hands. All the opposition presidential contenders lag behind them.\"Either Cristina or her husband would defeat the opposition easily if elections were held today,\" said Fidanza.N\u00e9stor, 60, who is more popular than his wife and preceded her as president, is tipped to run next year; he would hand the baton back after his term. There is concern, however, about his health: he was released from hospital last week after a heart procedure to unblock a coronary artery for the second time this year.Mar\u00eda Eugenia Estenssoro, a senator with the Coalici\u00f3n C\u00edvica party, said Argentina's democracy was at risk from a couple who hoped to keep power until 2020. \"This married couple have usurped power through what amounts to an elective dictatorship,\" she warned. \"Argentina is looking for a saviour who can take on the Kirchners.\"Several major media outlets have echoed the accusation, notably the conservative daily La Naci\u00f3n and the middle-of-the-road Clar\u00edn. Both newspapers have sided with the opposition while reporting government corruption, triggering a vicious battle with the first couple.To end what she described as an \"information monopoly\" by Clar\u00edn's media empire, Kirchner pushed new regulations that will force it to halt lucrative cable and internet access concessions. \"There is an evident official strategy against the media, a plan to silence the press,\" said the Clar\u00edn CEO, H\u00e9ctor Magnetto.Things turned personal last month when Kirchner presented a voluminous report accusing the two newspapers of conspiring with the 1976-83 military dictatorship to imprison and torture the family of David Graiver, a financier who died in a mysterious plane crash in Mexico in 1976. His widow, Lidia Papaleo, sold one of Graiver's companies, the newsprint manufacturer Papel Prensa, to Clar\u00edn and La Naci\u00f3n. A few months later, the dictatorship kidnapped and tortured Papaleo and members of her family.Kirchner has ordered a criminal investigation into the role of Magnetto and La Naci\u00f3n's director, Bartolom\u00e9 Mitre, accusing them of \"crimes against humanity\".Both men reject the accusations. \"Papel Prensa has been in operation for over 30 years and the purchase was approved by the courts after the return of democracy in 1983,\" Magnetto told the Guardian.The accusation has also been rejected by Graiver's brother, Isidoro, who said the sale had been completed before the kidnappings.Fidanza said the president was prevailing: \"Clar\u00edn is the clear loser in this war. Young people are cynical about big media and feel they have a negative viewpoint of the Kirchners.\"Young viewers are abandoning traditional news outlets in favour of the MTV-style news programme, 6,7,8 on the state channel Canal 7, which criticises the first couple's enemies.It is the creation of the self-professed \"Kirchnerista\" producer Diego Gvirtz. \"I am paranoid,\" he said by way of greeting at his production office, \"and I don't believe in press objectivity.\"A former producer for Clar\u00edn's TV channel Canal 13, Gvirtz has no love for his ex-employer Magnetto. \"People who committed crimes must go to jail,\" he said. Gvirtz's partisanship (the show's musical theme chants \"We are officialist bullshit\") has viewers enthralled.Fidanza said it all added up to a probable dynasty for the first couple. \"The president's recovery is remarkable,\" he said.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina poll sees Kirchners return from oblivion"},{"date": "2010-08-10T17:57:08Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thousands of girls and women in Argentina suffer needlessly because they cannot access contraception, legal abortion and other reproductive health care services, a Human Rights Watch report said today.An obstacle course of prejudice and shoddy or absent services forced many to seek illegal and often unsafe abortions, it stated. The findings challenged the country's image as a progressive beacon in South America.The report, Illusions of Care: Lack of Accountability for Reproductive Rights in Argentina, said some 40% of pregnancies ended in abortion \u2013 one of the world's highest rates \u2013 because laws guaranteeing free and universal contraception were ignored.\"The laws are in place but they have been systematically flouted by hospitals and doctors across the country who refuse, either through ignorance of the law or personal decision, to provide access,\" said Marianne Mollmann, one of the report's authors.Given abortion is illegal it is shocking that there are an estimated 500,000 annual abortions, with many women suffering health problems because of botched procedures, said Mollmann. \"That is a clear indicator of how badly the government is failing to provide universal access to contraception.\"There is an exception for women who state that they have been raped, but many doctors insisted on a court order before operating, said Silvia Oizerovich, a health official from Buenos Aires . \"Doctors don't understand that for a legal abortion you don't need to go to a court.\"Barriers to reproductive care included long delays, unnecessary referrals to other clinics, demands for spousal permission contrary to law, financial costs and in some cases outright refusal of treatment.\"Women need dependable care throughout their reproductive lives,\" said Jos\u00e9 Miguel Vivanco, the director of Americas' Human Rights Watch. \"But in Argentina, it's more like a lottery: you might be lucky enough to get decent care but you are more likely to be stuck with deficient or even abusive services.President Cristina Kirchner's administration won liberal plaudits last month when Argentina became Latin America's first country to legalise gay marriage but critics said pressure from the Catholic church and conservative groups continued to curb reproductive rights.\"The government has a double message. It's big on human rights but it hasn't managed to consolidate women's rights,\" said Mabel Bianco, of the Foundation for Study and Research on Women advocacy group.Contraception became legal in 1985 but some husbands beat up their wives if they discovered them using contraception, said Mollman. \"The problem is that many people who still believe contraception programmes should not exist.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Abortion", "World news", "Maternal health", "Global development"], "title": "Attitude towards contraception in Argentina puts women at risk"},{"date": "2010-07-21T17:30:35Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "It was, in hindsight, not the shrewdest budget cut. A jail in Argentina manned a watchtower with a dummy \u2013 a football with a guard's cap \u2013 and hoped prisoners would sense constant vigilance.The synthetic sentinel did not demand a salary, did not grumble about conditions and did not protest its nickname: Wilson, after the volleyball which kept Tom Hanks company in the film Cast Away.The only flaw in the innovation was that Wilson did not demur when two convicted armed robbers escaped, an oversight owing more to Mr Bean than Prison Break. Walter Pozo, 33, and Cesar Andres, 26, merged into a crowd of departing visitors last Saturday and vanished to freedom in Neuqu\u00e9n, a small city in Argentina's vast Patagonian wilderness.Rumours of Wilson's existence, and his relaxed approach to guardkeeping, were confirmed today. \"For an obvious strategic reason we could not say it before, but now the news is out, I admit that we have a type of mannequin,\" said Daniel Verges, director of the penitentiary service.Underfunding meant just two of the jail's 15 towers had guards. Wilson was installed in a third tower on the west wing to boost the sense of scrutiny.\"We've made a dummy out of a football and a prison officer's cap, so that the prisoners see its shadow and think they're being watched,\" an unnamed prison source told the R\u00edo Negro newspaper. \"We named him Wilson, like in the film Cast Away, and put him in one of the towers.\"An inquiry has been launched amid emergency meetings of security officials. Wilson's penitentiary career is over and he is presumed to have been demoted back to being a football.Authorities admitted several monitors and surveillance cameras were broken or lacked video cassettes but said cameras in the dummy's sector of the jail were working.The police chief, Juan Carlos Lep\u00e9n, said budget cuts meant there was no quick or easy way to fix equipment or properly staff the jail, which is known as Penal Unit 11. \"We are trying to resolve this. Our request [for more funds] is with the public administration but we have to wait.\"Pozo and Andres were nearing the end of their sentences and kept in a sector with fewer security measures. They reportedly scaled a wire fence and wall, donned overcoats and joined visitors who streamed out of the jail, which is located in an industrial zone, on a wintry Saturday afternoon. The hunt for the fugitives has not gone well so far. A police car crashed into a tree, slightly injuring four officials.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Argentina prison's dummy sentinel allows two inmates to escape"},{"date": "2010-11-22T13:30:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "When a firefighter or medical team make a rescue, the person is usually better-off as a result. This is less clear when the rescuer is the European Central Bank (ECB) or the IMF.Ireland is currently experiencing a 14.1% unemployment rate. As a result of bailout conditions that will require more cuts in government spending and tax increases, the unemployment rate is almost certain to go higher. The Irish people are likely to wonder what their economy would look like if they had not been rescued.The pain being inflicted on Ireland by the ECB/IMF is completely unnecessary. If the ECB committed itself to make loans available to Ireland at low interest rates, a mechanism entirely within its power, then Ireland would have no serious budget problem. Its huge projected deficits stem primarily from the combination of high interest costs on its debt, and the result of operating at levels of economic output that are well below full employment \u2013 both outcomes that can be pinned largely on the ECB.It is worth remembering that Ireland's government was a model of fiscal probity prior to the economic meltdown. It had run large budget surpluses for the 5 years prior to the onset of the crisis. Ireland's problem was certainly not out of control government spending; it was a reckless banking system that fueled an enormous housing bubble. The economic wizards at the ECB and the IMF either couldn't see the bubble or didn't think it was worth mentioning.The failure of the ECB or IMF to take steps to rein in the bubble before the crisis has not made these international financial institutions shy about using a heavy hand in imposing conditions now. The plan is to impose stiff austerity, requiring much of Ireland's workforce to suffer unemployment for years to come as a result of the failure of their bankers and the ECB.While it is often claimed that these institutions are not political, only the braindead could still believe this. The decision to make Ireland's workers, along with workers in Spain, Portugal, Latvia and elsewhere, pay for the recklessness of their country's bankers is entirely a political one. There is no economic imperative that says that workers must pay; this is a political decision being imposed by the ECB and IMF.This should be a huge warning flag for progressives and, in fact, anyone who believes in democracy. If the ECB puts conditions on a rescue package, it will be very difficult for an elected government in Ireland to reverse these conditions. In other words, the issues that Ireland's voters will be able to decide are likely to be trivial in importance relative to the conditions that will be imposed by the ECB.There is no serious argument for an unaccountable central bank. While no one expects or wants parliaments to micromanage monetary policy, the ECB and other central banks should be clearly accountable to elected bodies. It would be interesting to see how they can justify their plans for subjecting Ireland and other countries to double-digit unemployment for years to come.The other point that should be kept in mind is that even a relatively small country like Ireland has options. Specifically, they could drop out of the euro and default on their debt. This is hardly a first best option, but if the alternative is an indefinite stint of double-digit unemployment, then leaving the euro and default look much more attractive.The ECB and the IMF will insist that this is the road to disaster, but their credibility on this point is near zero. There is an obvious precedent. Back in the 2001, the IMF was pushing Argentina to pursue ever more stringent austerity measures. Like Ireland, Argentina had also been a poster child of the neoliberal crew before it ran into difficulties.But the IMF can turn quickly. Its austerity programme lowered GDP by almost 10% and pushed the unemployment rate well into the double digits. By the end of the 2001, it was politically impossible for the Argentine government to agree to more austerity. As a result, it broke the supposedly unbreakable link between its currency and the dollar and defaulted on its debt. The immediate effect was to make the economy worse, but by the second half of 2002, the economy was again growing. This was the start of five and a half years of solid growth, until the world economic crisis eventually took its toll in 2009.The IMF, meanwhile, did everything it could to sabotage Argentina, which became known as the \"A word\". It even used bogus projections that consistently under-predicted Argentina's growth in the hope of undermining confidence. Ireland should study the lessons of Argentina. Breaking from the euro would have consequences, but it is becoming increasingly likely that the pain from the break is less than the pain of staying in. Furthermore, simply raising the issue is likely to make the ECB and IMF take a more moderate position. What the people of Ireland and every country must realise is that if they agree to play by the bankers' rules, they will lose.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Ireland bailout", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "Unemployment and employment statistics", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "World news", "European Union", "Banking", "Argentina", "Europe"], "title": "Ireland should 'do an Argentina' | Dean Baker"},{"date": "2010-11-22T13:30:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "When a firefighter or medical team make a rescue, the person is usually better-off as a result. This is less clear when the rescuer is the European Central Bank (ECB) or the IMF.Ireland is currently experiencing a 14.1% unemployment rate. As a result of bailout conditions that will require more cuts in government spending and tax increases, the unemployment rate is almost certain to go higher. The Irish people are likely to wonder what their economy would look like if they had not been rescued.The pain being inflicted on Ireland by the ECB/IMF is completely unnecessary. If the ECB committed itself to make loans available to Ireland at low interest rates, a mechanism entirely within its power, then Ireland would have no serious budget problem. Its huge projected deficits stem primarily from the combination of high interest costs on its debt, and the result of operating at levels of economic output that are well below full employment \u2013 both outcomes that can be pinned largely on the ECB.It is worth remembering that Ireland's government was a model of fiscal probity prior to the economic meltdown. It had run large budget surpluses for the 5 years prior to the onset of the crisis. Ireland's problem was certainly not out of control government spending; it was a reckless banking system that fueled an enormous housing bubble. The economic wizards at the ECB and the IMF either couldn't see the bubble or didn't think it was worth mentioning.The failure of the ECB or IMF to take steps to rein in the bubble before the crisis has not made these international financial institutions shy about using a heavy hand in imposing conditions now. The plan is to impose stiff austerity, requiring much of Ireland's workforce to suffer unemployment for years to come as a result of the failure of their bankers and the ECB.While it is often claimed that these institutions are not political, only the braindead could still believe this. The decision to make Ireland's workers, along with workers in Spain, Portugal, Latvia and elsewhere, pay for the recklessness of their country's bankers is entirely a political one. There is no economic imperative that says that workers must pay; this is a political decision being imposed by the ECB and IMF.This should be a huge warning flag for progressives and, in fact, anyone who believes in democracy. If the ECB puts conditions on a rescue package, it will be very difficult for an elected government in Ireland to reverse these conditions. In other words, the issues that Ireland's voters will be able to decide are likely to be trivial in importance relative to the conditions that will be imposed by the ECB.There is no serious argument for an unaccountable central bank. While no one expects or wants parliaments to micromanage monetary policy, the ECB and other central banks should be clearly accountable to elected bodies. It would be interesting to see how they can justify their plans for subjecting Ireland and other countries to double-digit unemployment for years to come.The other point that should be kept in mind is that even a relatively small country like Ireland has options. Specifically, they could drop out of the euro and default on their debt. This is hardly a first best option, but if the alternative is an indefinite stint of double-digit unemployment, then leaving the euro and default look much more attractive.The ECB and the IMF will insist that this is the road to disaster, but their credibility on this point is near zero. There is an obvious precedent. Back in the 2001, the IMF was pushing Argentina to pursue ever more stringent austerity measures. Like Ireland, Argentina had also been a poster child of the neoliberal crew before it ran into difficulties.But the IMF can turn quickly. Its austerity programme lowered GDP by almost 10% and pushed the unemployment rate well into the double digits. By the end of the 2001, it was politically impossible for the Argentine government to agree to more austerity. As a result, it broke the supposedly unbreakable link between its currency and the dollar and defaulted on its debt. The immediate effect was to make the economy worse, but by the second half of 2002, the economy was again growing. This was the start of five and a half years of solid growth, until the world economic crisis eventually took its toll in 2009.The IMF, meanwhile, did everything it could to sabotage Argentina, which became known as the \"A word\". It even used bogus projections that consistently under-predicted Argentina's growth in the hope of undermining confidence. Ireland should study the lessons of Argentina. Breaking from the euro would have consequences, but it is becoming increasingly likely that the pain from the break is less than the pain of staying in. Furthermore, simply raising the issue is likely to make the ECB and IMF take a more moderate position. What the people of Ireland and every country must realise is that if they agree to play by the bankers' rules, they will lose.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Ireland bailout", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "Unemployment and employment statistics", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "World news", "European Union", "Banking", "Argentina", "Europe"], "title": "Ireland should 'do an Argentina' | Dean Baker"},{"date": "2010-10-27T16:07:18Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Former Argentinian president N\u00e9stor Kirchner \u2013 the current leader's husband and a contender to succeed her next year \u2013 has died of a heart attack.Kirchner, who was 60, was considered President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez's closest adviser and a powerbroker in her government. He died after being taken to hospital while suffering a severe heart attack. \"It was a sudden death,\" Kirchner's doctor, Luis Buonomo, told Reuters.President from 2003 to 2007, Kirchner, a left-leaning member of the Peronist party, oversaw Argentina's recovery from a devastating economic crisis. He was famous for fiery, leftwing speeches, and criticism of private companies and the International Monetary Fund. His death sparked a rally on world financial markets as investors looked forward to the prospect of a more investment-friendly regime.Kirchner had undergone two arterial procedures earlier this year. He died in the southern city of El Calafate. Fern\u00e1ndez was at his side when he died.The news shocked Argentinians, who by law were staying at home to be counted in a census. Kirchner's supporters planned a mass gathering tonight outside the Casa Rosada, Argentina's presidential palace.Argentina's most powerful union leader, Hugo Moyano, expressed his allegiance to the president, ordering an emergency board meeting of the General Labour Confederation: \"We will express our total support for the tenure of Cristina Kirchner so that the political and economic model her husband began in 2003 goes forward.\"\"A great patriot has died,\" said Juan Carlos Dante Gullo, a ruling party politician. \"This will leave a huge hole in Argentine politics. Argentina has lost one of its greatest men.\"The leader of the human rights group Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, Estela de Carlotto, said Kirchner \"gave his life for his country. Our country needed this man so much. He was indispensable.\"Even more than Fern\u00e1ndez, Kirchner was seen as the heir to Argentina's strongman president, Juan Domingo Per\u00f3n, and one of the few figures capable of managing Argentina's unruly and chaotic political scene. Fern\u00e1ndez is now likely to face many new threats to her leadership.The couple met at law school in the 1970s, and took turns in the political limelight. She was his adviser during his presidency, and he a key economic adviser since she succeeded him in December 2007.He was seen as a contender in next year's presidential race, and his popularity closely followed the approval ratings for his wife's presidency, which had rebounded from lows of about 20% as the economy improved.", "tags": ["N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Former Argentina president N\u00e9stor Kirchner dies"},{"date": "2010-11-22T13:30:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "When a firefighter or medical team make a rescue, the person is usually better-off as a result. This is less clear when the rescuer is the European Central Bank (ECB) or the IMF.Ireland is currently experiencing a 14.1% unemployment rate. As a result of bailout conditions that will require more cuts in government spending and tax increases, the unemployment rate is almost certain to go higher. The Irish people are likely to wonder what their economy would look like if they had not been rescued.The pain being inflicted on Ireland by the ECB/IMF is completely unnecessary. If the ECB committed itself to make loans available to Ireland at low interest rates, a mechanism entirely within its power, then Ireland would have no serious budget problem. Its huge projected deficits stem primarily from the combination of high interest costs on its debt, and the result of operating at levels of economic output that are well below full employment \u2013 both outcomes that can be pinned largely on the ECB.It is worth remembering that Ireland's government was a model of fiscal probity prior to the economic meltdown. It had run large budget surpluses for the 5 years prior to the onset of the crisis. Ireland's problem was certainly not out of control government spending; it was a reckless banking system that fueled an enormous housing bubble. The economic wizards at the ECB and the IMF either couldn't see the bubble or didn't think it was worth mentioning.The failure of the ECB or IMF to take steps to rein in the bubble before the crisis has not made these international financial institutions shy about using a heavy hand in imposing conditions now. The plan is to impose stiff austerity, requiring much of Ireland's workforce to suffer unemployment for years to come as a result of the failure of their bankers and the ECB.While it is often claimed that these institutions are not political, only the braindead could still believe this. The decision to make Ireland's workers, along with workers in Spain, Portugal, Latvia and elsewhere, pay for the recklessness of their country's bankers is entirely a political one. There is no economic imperative that says that workers must pay; this is a political decision being imposed by the ECB and IMF.This should be a huge warning flag for progressives and, in fact, anyone who believes in democracy. If the ECB puts conditions on a rescue package, it will be very difficult for an elected government in Ireland to reverse these conditions. In other words, the issues that Ireland's voters will be able to decide are likely to be trivial in importance relative to the conditions that will be imposed by the ECB.There is no serious argument for an unaccountable central bank. While no one expects or wants parliaments to micromanage monetary policy, the ECB and other central banks should be clearly accountable to elected bodies. It would be interesting to see how they can justify their plans for subjecting Ireland and other countries to double-digit unemployment for years to come.The other point that should be kept in mind is that even a relatively small country like Ireland has options. Specifically, they could drop out of the euro and default on their debt. This is hardly a first best option, but if the alternative is an indefinite stint of double-digit unemployment, then leaving the euro and default look much more attractive.The ECB and the IMF will insist that this is the road to disaster, but their credibility on this point is near zero. There is an obvious precedent. Back in the 2001, the IMF was pushing Argentina to pursue ever more stringent austerity measures. Like Ireland, Argentina had also been a poster child of the neoliberal crew before it ran into difficulties.But the IMF can turn quickly. Its austerity programme lowered GDP by almost 10% and pushed the unemployment rate well into the double digits. By the end of the 2001, it was politically impossible for the Argentine government to agree to more austerity. As a result, it broke the supposedly unbreakable link between its currency and the dollar and defaulted on its debt. The immediate effect was to make the economy worse, but by the second half of 2002, the economy was again growing. This was the start of five and a half years of solid growth, until the world economic crisis eventually took its toll in 2009.The IMF, meanwhile, did everything it could to sabotage Argentina, which became known as the \"A word\". It even used bogus projections that consistently under-predicted Argentina's growth in the hope of undermining confidence. Ireland should study the lessons of Argentina. Breaking from the euro would have consequences, but it is becoming increasingly likely that the pain from the break is less than the pain of staying in. Furthermore, simply raising the issue is likely to make the ECB and IMF take a more moderate position. What the people of Ireland and every country must realise is that if they agree to play by the bankers' rules, they will lose.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Ireland bailout", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "Unemployment and employment statistics", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "World news", "European Union", "Banking", "Argentina", "Europe"], "title": "Ireland should 'do an Argentina' | Dean Baker"},{"date": "2010-10-27T16:07:18Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Former Argentinian president N\u00e9stor Kirchner \u2013 the current leader's husband and a contender to succeed her next year \u2013 has died of a heart attack.Kirchner, who was 60, was considered President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez's closest adviser and a powerbroker in her government. He died after being taken to hospital while suffering a severe heart attack. \"It was a sudden death,\" Kirchner's doctor, Luis Buonomo, told Reuters.President from 2003 to 2007, Kirchner, a left-leaning member of the Peronist party, oversaw Argentina's recovery from a devastating economic crisis. He was famous for fiery, leftwing speeches, and criticism of private companies and the International Monetary Fund. His death sparked a rally on world financial markets as investors looked forward to the prospect of a more investment-friendly regime.Kirchner had undergone two arterial procedures earlier this year. He died in the southern city of El Calafate. Fern\u00e1ndez was at his side when he died.The news shocked Argentinians, who by law were staying at home to be counted in a census. Kirchner's supporters planned a mass gathering tonight outside the Casa Rosada, Argentina's presidential palace.Argentina's most powerful union leader, Hugo Moyano, expressed his allegiance to the president, ordering an emergency board meeting of the General Labour Confederation: \"We will express our total support for the tenure of Cristina Kirchner so that the political and economic model her husband began in 2003 goes forward.\"\"A great patriot has died,\" said Juan Carlos Dante Gullo, a ruling party politician. \"This will leave a huge hole in Argentine politics. Argentina has lost one of its greatest men.\"The leader of the human rights group Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, Estela de Carlotto, said Kirchner \"gave his life for his country. Our country needed this man so much. He was indispensable.\"Even more than Fern\u00e1ndez, Kirchner was seen as the heir to Argentina's strongman president, Juan Domingo Per\u00f3n, and one of the few figures capable of managing Argentina's unruly and chaotic political scene. Fern\u00e1ndez is now likely to face many new threats to her leadership.The couple met at law school in the 1970s, and took turns in the political limelight. She was his adviser during his presidency, and he a key economic adviser since she succeeded him in December 2007.He was seen as a contender in next year's presidential race, and his popularity closely followed the approval ratings for his wife's presidency, which had rebounded from lows of about 20% as the economy improved.", "tags": ["N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Former Argentina president N\u00e9stor Kirchner dies"},{"date": "2010-11-30T13:59:02Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " The UN special rapporteur on torture is an Argentinian, and, for the first time since the position was created in 1985, not a European. He was once a torture victim himself.The lawyer Juan M\u00e9ndez, 65, was arrested and tortured in Argentina in 1975 because he represented political prisoners. \"I think I have a particular sympathy for victims,\" he said on a trip to Geneva in November to meet UN leaders and non-government organisations.M\u00e9ndez was arrested before the military coup in March 1976. At the time there was a violent rift between Peronist factions. Several of his friends or acquaintances in Mar del Plata were victims of officially sanctioned death squads. \"The Mar del Plata killers and the prosecutor who protected them will soon be on trial,\" M\u00e9ndez says. \"It will be the first trial [in Argentina] for crimes against humanity committed before the military takeover.\"M\u00e9ndez was held at U9, the prison in La Plata (the administrative capital of Buenos Aires province), instead of \"disappearing\" into one of the clandestine detention centres set up after the coup. But life at U9 got much worse after the military took control of the prison system. At their trial this October a dozen officials in charge at U9 were found guilty.The prison was linked to 30 murders, most of them of friends or relations of political prisoners. Inmates were killed, too; it was claimed they tried to escape while being transferred to another jail.M\u00e9ndez was released in February 1977, on condition that he left Argentina. He settled in the US and began an academic career: \"I teach international law, human rights and the law of war at the American University in Washington.\" He has also worked for Human Rights Watch and the International Centre for Transitional Justice, easing the passage between dictatorship and democracy, armed conflict and peace. He was active in Liberia, Kenya and Colombia, and was on the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.In 2004 he was appointed as the UN secretary-general's special adviser for prevention of genocide. He admits having been disappointed by US \"ambiguity\" on Darfur: \"The US ambassador John Bolton prevented me from presenting my mission report to the security council after my second trip to the area.\"His mandate as special rapporteur concerns not only torture, but also cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. His competence extends to prisons. His first visits will be to Zimbabwe, Kyrgyzstan and Cuba. \"Human rights campaigners are also pressing us to visit Russia,\" M\u00e9ndez added. As an advocate of dialogue, he hopes to convince national authorities that his visits are not necessarily a prelude to condemnation.UN special rapporteur is an unpaid position supported by three salaried assistants.M\u00e9ndez thinks the war on terror has made torture seem commonplace: \"Torture is intolerable and no one has proved it is effective.\" He would like to clear up the issue of CIA \"black holes\", the clandestine detention centres said to operate in other countries. He deplores the fact that Barack Obama has not fully investigated possible irregularities committed under the Bush administration.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Argentina", "United Nations", "Torture"], "title": "UN torture investigator was himself a victim in Argentina"},{"date": "2010-11-22T13:30:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "When a firefighter or medical team make a rescue, the person is usually better-off as a result. This is less clear when the rescuer is the European Central Bank (ECB) or the IMF.Ireland is currently experiencing a 14.1% unemployment rate. As a result of bailout conditions that will require more cuts in government spending and tax increases, the unemployment rate is almost certain to go higher. The Irish people are likely to wonder what their economy would look like if they had not been rescued.The pain being inflicted on Ireland by the ECB/IMF is completely unnecessary. If the ECB committed itself to make loans available to Ireland at low interest rates, a mechanism entirely within its power, then Ireland would have no serious budget problem. Its huge projected deficits stem primarily from the combination of high interest costs on its debt, and the result of operating at levels of economic output that are well below full employment \u2013 both outcomes that can be pinned largely on the ECB.It is worth remembering that Ireland's government was a model of fiscal probity prior to the economic meltdown. It had run large budget surpluses for the 5 years prior to the onset of the crisis. Ireland's problem was certainly not out of control government spending; it was a reckless banking system that fueled an enormous housing bubble. The economic wizards at the ECB and the IMF either couldn't see the bubble or didn't think it was worth mentioning.The failure of the ECB or IMF to take steps to rein in the bubble before the crisis has not made these international financial institutions shy about using a heavy hand in imposing conditions now. The plan is to impose stiff austerity, requiring much of Ireland's workforce to suffer unemployment for years to come as a result of the failure of their bankers and the ECB.While it is often claimed that these institutions are not political, only the braindead could still believe this. The decision to make Ireland's workers, along with workers in Spain, Portugal, Latvia and elsewhere, pay for the recklessness of their country's bankers is entirely a political one. There is no economic imperative that says that workers must pay; this is a political decision being imposed by the ECB and IMF.This should be a huge warning flag for progressives and, in fact, anyone who believes in democracy. If the ECB puts conditions on a rescue package, it will be very difficult for an elected government in Ireland to reverse these conditions. In other words, the issues that Ireland's voters will be able to decide are likely to be trivial in importance relative to the conditions that will be imposed by the ECB.There is no serious argument for an unaccountable central bank. While no one expects or wants parliaments to micromanage monetary policy, the ECB and other central banks should be clearly accountable to elected bodies. It would be interesting to see how they can justify their plans for subjecting Ireland and other countries to double-digit unemployment for years to come.The other point that should be kept in mind is that even a relatively small country like Ireland has options. Specifically, they could drop out of the euro and default on their debt. This is hardly a first best option, but if the alternative is an indefinite stint of double-digit unemployment, then leaving the euro and default look much more attractive.The ECB and the IMF will insist that this is the road to disaster, but their credibility on this point is near zero. There is an obvious precedent. Back in the 2001, the IMF was pushing Argentina to pursue ever more stringent austerity measures. Like Ireland, Argentina had also been a poster child of the neoliberal crew before it ran into difficulties.But the IMF can turn quickly. Its austerity programme lowered GDP by almost 10% and pushed the unemployment rate well into the double digits. By the end of the 2001, it was politically impossible for the Argentine government to agree to more austerity. As a result, it broke the supposedly unbreakable link between its currency and the dollar and defaulted on its debt. The immediate effect was to make the economy worse, but by the second half of 2002, the economy was again growing. This was the start of five and a half years of solid growth, until the world economic crisis eventually took its toll in 2009.The IMF, meanwhile, did everything it could to sabotage Argentina, which became known as the \"A word\". It even used bogus projections that consistently under-predicted Argentina's growth in the hope of undermining confidence. Ireland should study the lessons of Argentina. Breaking from the euro would have consequences, but it is becoming increasingly likely that the pain from the break is less than the pain of staying in. Furthermore, simply raising the issue is likely to make the ECB and IMF take a more moderate position. What the people of Ireland and every country must realise is that if they agree to play by the bankers' rules, they will lose.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Ireland bailout", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "Unemployment and employment statistics", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "World news", "European Union", "Banking", "Argentina", "Europe"], "title": "Ireland should 'do an Argentina' | Dean Baker"},{"date": "2010-10-27T16:07:18Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Former Argentinian president N\u00e9stor Kirchner \u2013 the current leader's husband and a contender to succeed her next year \u2013 has died of a heart attack.Kirchner, who was 60, was considered President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez's closest adviser and a powerbroker in her government. He died after being taken to hospital while suffering a severe heart attack. \"It was a sudden death,\" Kirchner's doctor, Luis Buonomo, told Reuters.President from 2003 to 2007, Kirchner, a left-leaning member of the Peronist party, oversaw Argentina's recovery from a devastating economic crisis. He was famous for fiery, leftwing speeches, and criticism of private companies and the International Monetary Fund. His death sparked a rally on world financial markets as investors looked forward to the prospect of a more investment-friendly regime.Kirchner had undergone two arterial procedures earlier this year. He died in the southern city of El Calafate. Fern\u00e1ndez was at his side when he died.The news shocked Argentinians, who by law were staying at home to be counted in a census. Kirchner's supporters planned a mass gathering tonight outside the Casa Rosada, Argentina's presidential palace.Argentina's most powerful union leader, Hugo Moyano, expressed his allegiance to the president, ordering an emergency board meeting of the General Labour Confederation: \"We will express our total support for the tenure of Cristina Kirchner so that the political and economic model her husband began in 2003 goes forward.\"\"A great patriot has died,\" said Juan Carlos Dante Gullo, a ruling party politician. \"This will leave a huge hole in Argentine politics. Argentina has lost one of its greatest men.\"The leader of the human rights group Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, Estela de Carlotto, said Kirchner \"gave his life for his country. Our country needed this man so much. He was indispensable.\"Even more than Fern\u00e1ndez, Kirchner was seen as the heir to Argentina's strongman president, Juan Domingo Per\u00f3n, and one of the few figures capable of managing Argentina's unruly and chaotic political scene. Fern\u00e1ndez is now likely to face many new threats to her leadership.The couple met at law school in the 1970s, and took turns in the political limelight. She was his adviser during his presidency, and he a key economic adviser since she succeeded him in December 2007.He was seen as a contender in next year's presidential race, and his popularity closely followed the approval ratings for his wife's presidency, which had rebounded from lows of about 20% as the economy improved.", "tags": ["N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Former Argentina president N\u00e9stor Kirchner dies"},{"date": "2010-11-30T13:59:02Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " The UN special rapporteur on torture is an Argentinian, and, for the first time since the position was created in 1985, not a European. He was once a torture victim himself.The lawyer Juan M\u00e9ndez, 65, was arrested and tortured in Argentina in 1975 because he represented political prisoners. \"I think I have a particular sympathy for victims,\" he said on a trip to Geneva in November to meet UN leaders and non-government organisations.M\u00e9ndez was arrested before the military coup in March 1976. At the time there was a violent rift between Peronist factions. Several of his friends or acquaintances in Mar del Plata were victims of officially sanctioned death squads. \"The Mar del Plata killers and the prosecutor who protected them will soon be on trial,\" M\u00e9ndez says. \"It will be the first trial [in Argentina] for crimes against humanity committed before the military takeover.\"M\u00e9ndez was held at U9, the prison in La Plata (the administrative capital of Buenos Aires province), instead of \"disappearing\" into one of the clandestine detention centres set up after the coup. But life at U9 got much worse after the military took control of the prison system. At their trial this October a dozen officials in charge at U9 were found guilty.The prison was linked to 30 murders, most of them of friends or relations of political prisoners. Inmates were killed, too; it was claimed they tried to escape while being transferred to another jail.M\u00e9ndez was released in February 1977, on condition that he left Argentina. He settled in the US and began an academic career: \"I teach international law, human rights and the law of war at the American University in Washington.\" He has also worked for Human Rights Watch and the International Centre for Transitional Justice, easing the passage between dictatorship and democracy, armed conflict and peace. He was active in Liberia, Kenya and Colombia, and was on the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.In 2004 he was appointed as the UN secretary-general's special adviser for prevention of genocide. He admits having been disappointed by US \"ambiguity\" on Darfur: \"The US ambassador John Bolton prevented me from presenting my mission report to the security council after my second trip to the area.\"His mandate as special rapporteur concerns not only torture, but also cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. His competence extends to prisons. His first visits will be to Zimbabwe, Kyrgyzstan and Cuba. \"Human rights campaigners are also pressing us to visit Russia,\" M\u00e9ndez added. As an advocate of dialogue, he hopes to convince national authorities that his visits are not necessarily a prelude to condemnation.UN special rapporteur is an unpaid position supported by three salaried assistants.M\u00e9ndez thinks the war on terror has made torture seem commonplace: \"Torture is intolerable and no one has proved it is effective.\" He would like to clear up the issue of CIA \"black holes\", the clandestine detention centres said to operate in other countries. He deplores the fact that Barack Obama has not fully investigated possible irregularities committed under the Bush administration.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Argentina", "United Nations", "Torture"], "title": "UN torture investigator was himself a victim in Argentina"},{"date": "2010-12-09T13:12:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Tuesday, 02 June 2009, 14:42C O N F I D E N T I A L BUENOS AIRES 000641 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 05/29/2029 TAGS PREL, ECON, EAIR, MASS, SENV, AMGT, VZ, AR SUBJECT: ARGENTINA: AMBASSADOR'S FAREWELL CALL ON FM TAIANA REF: (A) BUENOS AIRES 0498 (B) BUENOS AIRES 0632 (C) STATE 48493Classified By: Ambassador E. Anthony Wayne for reasons 1.4 (b) & (d).1. (C) Summary and introduction: Argentine FM Jorge Taiana told the Ambassador, during the latter's May 28 farewell call, that the GOA had no intention of following Venezuela's lead on expropriations. Taiana expressed concern about the visit of a team from the FAA and the prospect (which has since receded) of a downgrade in the rating of Argentina's civil aviation regime. The Ambassador updated Taiana on MOD efforts to find new office space for the U.S. Military Group. Taiana (protect) said he knows that Argentina, in a recent submission regarding its Antarctic claim, left out the language that was agreed with the USG and other key governments in 2004 (ref C), but claimed the current electoral climate in Argentina had made it impossible to submit such specific language due to the Malvinas/Falklands issue's continued prominence here. The Ambassador complained to Taiana that an Argentine judicial investigation was inadvertently holding up the re-exportation of cars belonging to American diplomats. The Ambassador urged resolution of Paris Club and private bondholder debts. Ref B reports discussion of Cuba issue at the OAS General Assembly. End summary.Venezuela's Hugo Chavez-----------------------2. (C) The Ambassador indirectly asked if the the Argentine business community's alarm regarding the latest wave of Venezuelan expropriations (including several affecting Argentina's Techint conglomerate) was giving the GOA pause about Chavez. Taiana stressed that no one senior in the GOA -- neither CFK, other ministers or Nestor Kirchner -- wanted to follow Chavez's lead on expropriations. Taiana said Peron had already gone through a nationalization phase in the 1940s, and the country had learned its lesson. Argentina may favor a larger state role in the economy than does the United States, but it still values the private sector and recognizes the primacy of private property for propelling economic growth and development. The GOA does not agree with what Chavez was doing, Taiana reiterated. (Comment: These comments tracked with Interior Minister Randazzo's public comments on the week of May 25 that Chavez's expropriations were \"pre-Peronist. End comment.)Civair------3. (C) Taiana said he was concerned about the visit of a team from the FAA and the possibility of a downgrade in Argentina's International Aviation Safety Assessment (IASA). He noted that the transition from military to civilian control of air traffic had been wrenching, with the military trying to hold on to power. He said he hoped the FAA assessment did not blow up publicly into a divisive issue. The Ambassador noted that none of the FAA's recommendations was difficult or unfeasible. (NOTE: An FAA team was in Argentina May 27-29, completing the IASA evaluation begun in March, 2009. While official results have yet to be released, an informal readout from the team leader indicates that Argentina will maintain its IASA Category I status. The FAA provided similar information to GoA civil aviation authorities.)Military Group--------------4. (C) Taiana asked if the Ministry of Defense had offered the U.S. Military Group alternate office space (per ref A discussion). The Ambassador acknowledged the MOD had made an offer, and that one Military Group component located at MOD headquarters had moved out of that building to the Embassy. The Ambassador explained that two other Military Group components currently located at Air Force and Navy facilities were hoping for a temporary reprieve pending a fuller discussion of updating the 1964 agreement at joint U.S.-Argentine talks in October. Taiana asked to be kept informed of developments.Antarctic---------5. (C) Taiana (protect) said he knows that Argentina, in the data it submitted to the UN Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf regarding its Antarctic claim, left out the specific language that was agreed with the USG and other key governments in 2004 (ref C). He claimed that the current electoral climate in Argentina had made it impossible to submit such language with the GOA data. Doing so would have subjected the GOA to a storm of criticism for its \"surrender\" of Argentine claims, and resulted in his removal from office. \"But if you read our submission carefully, you'll see our language respects all Antarctic Treaty provisions,\" he said, quickly adding that the prime issue for Argentina, of course, was not Antarctica, but protecting its claim to sovereignty over the Malvinas/Falkland Islands.POVs----6. (C) The Ambassador explained to Taiana that an Argentine judge investigating abuse by others of diplomatic importation of vehicles had seized documents, effectively holding up the export of privately owned vehicles (POVs) belonging to American diplomats who had served in Argentina and are now posted elsewhere. The Ambassador said Washington was very concerned and looking into reciprocity measures. Taiana said he was not aware of this latest development and would look into it. (The Ambassador subsequently signed a letter to the investigating judge, to be transmitted through the MFA, which explains our serious concerns and seeks positive action.)Paris Club----------7. (C) The Ambassador told Taiana that he had advised President Kirchner the night before (ref B) that resolution of Paris Club and private bondholder debts is clearly in Argentina's long-term interest. Taiana agreed the GOA needed to find a way to resolve the matter, and the Ambassador noted that Planning Minister De Vido and others in the GOA seemed to be moving toward that position as well.WAYNE", "tags": ["Argentina", "Venezuela", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "World news", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Argentina criticises Chavez's approach to Venezuelan private sector"},{"date": "2010-11-22T13:30:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "When a firefighter or medical team make a rescue, the person is usually better-off as a result. This is less clear when the rescuer is the European Central Bank (ECB) or the IMF.Ireland is currently experiencing a 14.1% unemployment rate. As a result of bailout conditions that will require more cuts in government spending and tax increases, the unemployment rate is almost certain to go higher. The Irish people are likely to wonder what their economy would look like if they had not been rescued.The pain being inflicted on Ireland by the ECB/IMF is completely unnecessary. If the ECB committed itself to make loans available to Ireland at low interest rates, a mechanism entirely within its power, then Ireland would have no serious budget problem. Its huge projected deficits stem primarily from the combination of high interest costs on its debt, and the result of operating at levels of economic output that are well below full employment \u2013 both outcomes that can be pinned largely on the ECB.It is worth remembering that Ireland's government was a model of fiscal probity prior to the economic meltdown. It had run large budget surpluses for the 5 years prior to the onset of the crisis. Ireland's problem was certainly not out of control government spending; it was a reckless banking system that fueled an enormous housing bubble. The economic wizards at the ECB and the IMF either couldn't see the bubble or didn't think it was worth mentioning.The failure of the ECB or IMF to take steps to rein in the bubble before the crisis has not made these international financial institutions shy about using a heavy hand in imposing conditions now. The plan is to impose stiff austerity, requiring much of Ireland's workforce to suffer unemployment for years to come as a result of the failure of their bankers and the ECB.While it is often claimed that these institutions are not political, only the braindead could still believe this. The decision to make Ireland's workers, along with workers in Spain, Portugal, Latvia and elsewhere, pay for the recklessness of their country's bankers is entirely a political one. There is no economic imperative that says that workers must pay; this is a political decision being imposed by the ECB and IMF.This should be a huge warning flag for progressives and, in fact, anyone who believes in democracy. If the ECB puts conditions on a rescue package, it will be very difficult for an elected government in Ireland to reverse these conditions. In other words, the issues that Ireland's voters will be able to decide are likely to be trivial in importance relative to the conditions that will be imposed by the ECB.There is no serious argument for an unaccountable central bank. While no one expects or wants parliaments to micromanage monetary policy, the ECB and other central banks should be clearly accountable to elected bodies. It would be interesting to see how they can justify their plans for subjecting Ireland and other countries to double-digit unemployment for years to come.The other point that should be kept in mind is that even a relatively small country like Ireland has options. Specifically, they could drop out of the euro and default on their debt. This is hardly a first best option, but if the alternative is an indefinite stint of double-digit unemployment, then leaving the euro and default look much more attractive.The ECB and the IMF will insist that this is the road to disaster, but their credibility on this point is near zero. There is an obvious precedent. Back in the 2001, the IMF was pushing Argentina to pursue ever more stringent austerity measures. Like Ireland, Argentina had also been a poster child of the neoliberal crew before it ran into difficulties.But the IMF can turn quickly. Its austerity programme lowered GDP by almost 10% and pushed the unemployment rate well into the double digits. By the end of the 2001, it was politically impossible for the Argentine government to agree to more austerity. As a result, it broke the supposedly unbreakable link between its currency and the dollar and defaulted on its debt. The immediate effect was to make the economy worse, but by the second half of 2002, the economy was again growing. This was the start of five and a half years of solid growth, until the world economic crisis eventually took its toll in 2009.The IMF, meanwhile, did everything it could to sabotage Argentina, which became known as the \"A word\". It even used bogus projections that consistently under-predicted Argentina's growth in the hope of undermining confidence. Ireland should study the lessons of Argentina. Breaking from the euro would have consequences, but it is becoming increasingly likely that the pain from the break is less than the pain of staying in. Furthermore, simply raising the issue is likely to make the ECB and IMF take a more moderate position. What the people of Ireland and every country must realise is that if they agree to play by the bankers' rules, they will lose.", "tags": ["Ireland", "Ireland bailout", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "European Central Bank", "Business", "Euro", "Euro", "Unemployment and employment statistics", "Eurozone crisis", "Global economy", "World news", "European Union", "Banking", "Argentina", "Europe"], "title": "Ireland should 'do an Argentina' | Dean Baker"},{"date": "2010-10-27T16:07:18Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Former Argentinian president N\u00e9stor Kirchner \u2013 the current leader's husband and a contender to succeed her next year \u2013 has died of a heart attack.Kirchner, who was 60, was considered President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez's closest adviser and a powerbroker in her government. He died after being taken to hospital while suffering a severe heart attack. \"It was a sudden death,\" Kirchner's doctor, Luis Buonomo, told Reuters.President from 2003 to 2007, Kirchner, a left-leaning member of the Peronist party, oversaw Argentina's recovery from a devastating economic crisis. He was famous for fiery, leftwing speeches, and criticism of private companies and the International Monetary Fund. His death sparked a rally on world financial markets as investors looked forward to the prospect of a more investment-friendly regime.Kirchner had undergone two arterial procedures earlier this year. He died in the southern city of El Calafate. Fern\u00e1ndez was at his side when he died.The news shocked Argentinians, who by law were staying at home to be counted in a census. Kirchner's supporters planned a mass gathering tonight outside the Casa Rosada, Argentina's presidential palace.Argentina's most powerful union leader, Hugo Moyano, expressed his allegiance to the president, ordering an emergency board meeting of the General Labour Confederation: \"We will express our total support for the tenure of Cristina Kirchner so that the political and economic model her husband began in 2003 goes forward.\"\"A great patriot has died,\" said Juan Carlos Dante Gullo, a ruling party politician. \"This will leave a huge hole in Argentine politics. Argentina has lost one of its greatest men.\"The leader of the human rights group Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, Estela de Carlotto, said Kirchner \"gave his life for his country. Our country needed this man so much. He was indispensable.\"Even more than Fern\u00e1ndez, Kirchner was seen as the heir to Argentina's strongman president, Juan Domingo Per\u00f3n, and one of the few figures capable of managing Argentina's unruly and chaotic political scene. Fern\u00e1ndez is now likely to face many new threats to her leadership.The couple met at law school in the 1970s, and took turns in the political limelight. She was his adviser during his presidency, and he a key economic adviser since she succeeded him in December 2007.He was seen as a contender in next year's presidential race, and his popularity closely followed the approval ratings for his wife's presidency, which had rebounded from lows of about 20% as the economy improved.", "tags": ["N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Argentina", "World news"], "title": "Former Argentina president N\u00e9stor Kirchner dies"},{"date": "2010-11-30T13:59:02Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " The UN special rapporteur on torture is an Argentinian, and, for the first time since the position was created in 1985, not a European. He was once a torture victim himself.The lawyer Juan M\u00e9ndez, 65, was arrested and tortured in Argentina in 1975 because he represented political prisoners. \"I think I have a particular sympathy for victims,\" he said on a trip to Geneva in November to meet UN leaders and non-government organisations.M\u00e9ndez was arrested before the military coup in March 1976. At the time there was a violent rift between Peronist factions. Several of his friends or acquaintances in Mar del Plata were victims of officially sanctioned death squads. \"The Mar del Plata killers and the prosecutor who protected them will soon be on trial,\" M\u00e9ndez says. \"It will be the first trial [in Argentina] for crimes against humanity committed before the military takeover.\"M\u00e9ndez was held at U9, the prison in La Plata (the administrative capital of Buenos Aires province), instead of \"disappearing\" into one of the clandestine detention centres set up after the coup. But life at U9 got much worse after the military took control of the prison system. At their trial this October a dozen officials in charge at U9 were found guilty.The prison was linked to 30 murders, most of them of friends or relations of political prisoners. Inmates were killed, too; it was claimed they tried to escape while being transferred to another jail.M\u00e9ndez was released in February 1977, on condition that he left Argentina. He settled in the US and began an academic career: \"I teach international law, human rights and the law of war at the American University in Washington.\" He has also worked for Human Rights Watch and the International Centre for Transitional Justice, easing the passage between dictatorship and democracy, armed conflict and peace. He was active in Liberia, Kenya and Colombia, and was on the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights.In 2004 he was appointed as the UN secretary-general's special adviser for prevention of genocide. He admits having been disappointed by US \"ambiguity\" on Darfur: \"The US ambassador John Bolton prevented me from presenting my mission report to the security council after my second trip to the area.\"His mandate as special rapporteur concerns not only torture, but also cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. His competence extends to prisons. His first visits will be to Zimbabwe, Kyrgyzstan and Cuba. \"Human rights campaigners are also pressing us to visit Russia,\" M\u00e9ndez added. As an advocate of dialogue, he hopes to convince national authorities that his visits are not necessarily a prelude to condemnation.UN special rapporteur is an unpaid position supported by three salaried assistants.M\u00e9ndez thinks the war on terror has made torture seem commonplace: \"Torture is intolerable and no one has proved it is effective.\" He would like to clear up the issue of CIA \"black holes\", the clandestine detention centres said to operate in other countries. He deplores the fact that Barack Obama has not fully investigated possible irregularities committed under the Bush administration.This article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Argentina", "United Nations", "Torture"], "title": "UN torture investigator was himself a victim in Argentina"},{"date": "2010-12-09T13:12:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Tuesday, 02 June 2009, 14:42C O N F I D E N T I A L BUENOS AIRES 000641 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 05/29/2029 TAGS PREL, ECON, EAIR, MASS, SENV, AMGT, VZ, AR SUBJECT: ARGENTINA: AMBASSADOR'S FAREWELL CALL ON FM TAIANA REF: (A) BUENOS AIRES 0498 (B) BUENOS AIRES 0632 (C) STATE 48493Classified By: Ambassador E. Anthony Wayne for reasons 1.4 (b) & (d).1. (C) Summary and introduction: Argentine FM Jorge Taiana told the Ambassador, during the latter's May 28 farewell call, that the GOA had no intention of following Venezuela's lead on expropriations. Taiana expressed concern about the visit of a team from the FAA and the prospect (which has since receded) of a downgrade in the rating of Argentina's civil aviation regime. The Ambassador updated Taiana on MOD efforts to find new office space for the U.S. Military Group. Taiana (protect) said he knows that Argentina, in a recent submission regarding its Antarctic claim, left out the language that was agreed with the USG and other key governments in 2004 (ref C), but claimed the current electoral climate in Argentina had made it impossible to submit such specific language due to the Malvinas/Falklands issue's continued prominence here. The Ambassador complained to Taiana that an Argentine judicial investigation was inadvertently holding up the re-exportation of cars belonging to American diplomats. The Ambassador urged resolution of Paris Club and private bondholder debts. Ref B reports discussion of Cuba issue at the OAS General Assembly. End summary.Venezuela's Hugo Chavez-----------------------2. (C) The Ambassador indirectly asked if the the Argentine business community's alarm regarding the latest wave of Venezuelan expropriations (including several affecting Argentina's Techint conglomerate) was giving the GOA pause about Chavez. Taiana stressed that no one senior in the GOA -- neither CFK, other ministers or Nestor Kirchner -- wanted to follow Chavez's lead on expropriations. Taiana said Peron had already gone through a nationalization phase in the 1940s, and the country had learned its lesson. Argentina may favor a larger state role in the economy than does the United States, but it still values the private sector and recognizes the primacy of private property for propelling economic growth and development. The GOA does not agree with what Chavez was doing, Taiana reiterated. (Comment: These comments tracked with Interior Minister Randazzo's public comments on the week of May 25 that Chavez's expropriations were \"pre-Peronist. End comment.)Civair------3. (C) Taiana said he was concerned about the visit of a team from the FAA and the possibility of a downgrade in Argentina's International Aviation Safety Assessment (IASA). He noted that the transition from military to civilian control of air traffic had been wrenching, with the military trying to hold on to power. He said he hoped the FAA assessment did not blow up publicly into a divisive issue. The Ambassador noted that none of the FAA's recommendations was difficult or unfeasible. (NOTE: An FAA team was in Argentina May 27-29, completing the IASA evaluation begun in March, 2009. While official results have yet to be released, an informal readout from the team leader indicates that Argentina will maintain its IASA Category I status. The FAA provided similar information to GoA civil aviation authorities.)Military Group--------------4. (C) Taiana asked if the Ministry of Defense had offered the U.S. Military Group alternate office space (per ref A discussion). The Ambassador acknowledged the MOD had made an offer, and that one Military Group component located at MOD headquarters had moved out of that building to the Embassy. The Ambassador explained that two other Military Group components currently located at Air Force and Navy facilities were hoping for a temporary reprieve pending a fuller discussion of updating the 1964 agreement at joint U.S.-Argentine talks in October. Taiana asked to be kept informed of developments.Antarctic---------5. (C) Taiana (protect) said he knows that Argentina, in the data it submitted to the UN Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf regarding its Antarctic claim, left out the specific language that was agreed with the USG and other key governments in 2004 (ref C). He claimed that the current electoral climate in Argentina had made it impossible to submit such language with the GOA data. Doing so would have subjected the GOA to a storm of criticism for its \"surrender\" of Argentine claims, and resulted in his removal from office. \"But if you read our submission carefully, you'll see our language respects all Antarctic Treaty provisions,\" he said, quickly adding that the prime issue for Argentina, of course, was not Antarctica, but protecting its claim to sovereignty over the Malvinas/Falkland Islands.POVs----6. (C) The Ambassador explained to Taiana that an Argentine judge investigating abuse by others of diplomatic importation of vehicles had seized documents, effectively holding up the export of privately owned vehicles (POVs) belonging to American diplomats who had served in Argentina and are now posted elsewhere. The Ambassador said Washington was very concerned and looking into reciprocity measures. Taiana said he was not aware of this latest development and would look into it. (The Ambassador subsequently signed a letter to the investigating judge, to be transmitted through the MFA, which explains our serious concerns and seeks positive action.)Paris Club----------7. (C) The Ambassador told Taiana that he had advised President Kirchner the night before (ref B) that resolution of Paris Club and private bondholder debts is clearly in Argentina's long-term interest. Taiana agreed the GOA needed to find a way to resolve the matter, and the Ambassador noted that Planning Minister De Vido and others in the GOA seemed to be moving toward that position as well.WAYNE", "tags": ["Argentina", "Venezuela", "Hugo Ch\u00e1vez", "World news", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Argentina criticises Chavez's approach to Venezuelan private sector"},{"date": "2010-11-29T21:30:24Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thursday, 31 December 2009, 13:44C O N F I D E N T I A L BUENOS AIRES 001311 SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 2019/12/31 TAGS PREL, OVIP, ECON, KPAO SUBJECT: (C) ARGENTINE GOVERNMENT TAKES UMBRAGE AT WHA A/S VALENZUELA'S REMARK REGARDING BUSINESS COMMUNITY'S CONCERNSDERIVED FROM: DSCG 05-1 B, D1. (C) Summary: The GOA responded with heavy artillery to a remark WHA A/S Valenzuela made during a December 16 press roundtable. Immediately after the press roundtable, Argentine media started focusing almost exclusively on A/S Valenzuela's remark that the American business community in Argentina had conveyed to him concern about rule of law and management of the economy in Argentina. The press reported that Valenzuela contrasted these concerns \"with the enthusiasm and investment intentions\" of the American business community in 1996. GOA officials also expressed their dissatisfaction with the remarks. The Ambassador and other Country Team members used a December 17 reception for journalists to stress our desire to work constructively with Argentina, and the Ambassador has reached out to GOA officials to urge a prompt end to their criticisms. Government press is beginning to report a softening tone, but we think that it is too early to tell. End Summary.2. (C) Immediately prior to departure from Buenos Aires on December 16, WHA A/S Valenzuela met at the Embassy with about a dozen Argentine print journalists. He followed 20 minutes of remarks by taking questions for another 20 minutes, explaining his desire to introduce himself to his regional counterparts and undertake a dialogue with them on regional developments.Media Zero In on Perceived Criticism--------------------------------------------3. (C) Despite the broad range of issues addressed by A/S Valenzuela, Argentine media started focusing immediately after the roundtable almost exclusively on A/S Valenzuela's remark that the American business community in Argentina had conveyed to him concern about rule of law and management of the economy in Argentina. The press also reported that Valenzuela contrasted these concerns \"with the enthusiasm and investment intentions\" of the American business community in 1996. (A/S Valenzuela's first official meeting in Buenos Aires was with the Executive Board of the AmCham.) As an example of the sensationalist nature of much of the reporting, La Nacion's banner front-page headlines on December 17 read, \"Clash with the U.S. over Rule of Law in Argentina\" and on December 18, \"Protest to U.S. over Obama Envoy's Criticism.\"Kirchner Allies Take Umbrage------------------------------------4. (C) The GOA response came swiftly. That same night, three GOA ministries publicly commented (in a clearly coordinated fashion) on the Valenzuela remarks. Interior Minister Florencio Randazzo said \"Argentina is enjoying a phase of complete institutional and legal guarantees. The country has left behind the times when a foreign official could come and say what needed to be done. There is no lack of rule of law. The difference now is that the Government protects the people, and in the 1990s it protected the companies' interests that took millions out.\"5. (C) Following the Randazzo statement, the Foreign Ministry issued a four-point communiquC) saying that: (1) the generalized nature of the Assistant Secretary's remarks about supposed concerns in the American business community made it impossible for the GOA to address the alleged concerns; (2) the MFA had already written Ambassador Martinez to clarify similar remarks that she had made the previous week in Cordoba but had received no reply; (3) Argentine authorities had received no complaints from American companies operating in Argentina; and (4) the GOA reiterates its disposition to analyze \"all aspects that allow us to promote reciprocal relations, especially economic, between the two countries. Open and consolidated channels are available to both governments for this dialogue.\"6. (C) The GOA's third statement on December 16 came from Justice Minister Julio Alak, who called Valenzuela's statements \"unusualand unjustified.\" Alak claimed that \"rule of law is a fundamental asset in the country that has been protected and rescued from the more adverse conditions coming from the institutional and economic crisis in 2001 and 2002.\"7. (C) After the initial salvos, the GOA officials who met with Valenzuela chimed in. Vice Foreign Minister Victorio Taccetti (who received Valenzuela December 15 at the MFA and hosted him for lunch) said, \"Valenzuela is free to think as he wishes, but the truth is that 1996 is the prelude of the most important crisis Argentina faced. It is possible that he felt glad in 1996, but that ended in the 2001 crisis that impacted many companies, including some American ones. Argentina doesn't want to set off sparks (\"sacarse chispas\") with the United States; it is Valenzuela who opines without basing his statements on reality.\"8. (C) Cabinet Chief AnC-bal FernC!ndez said, \"We are not talking about a statement that comes from American businessmen, but of (Valenzuela's) prejudices, and that is much more sensitive and what worries me most. I was concerned to find out that he was critical of many Latin American democracies, and one of the supporters of the Washington Consensus.\"9. (C) Argentine Ambassador to the United States HC)ctor Timerman appeared on television and in the press to claim that he had urged A/S Valenzuela to meet with CGT labor leader Hugo Moyano and the opposition Radical Party (UCR), but that \"he met only with the political right: De NarvC!ez, Macri and Cobos. He is sending a message on who are, in his views, the people with whom he needs to have dialogue.\"10. (C) Argentine press reported that FM Jorge Taiana, who was in Copenhagen for the COP-15 meetings, used a brief pull-aside with Secretary Clinton to complain about Valenzuela's remarks. Taiana told the press that Valenzuela's words \"were unfortunate and show his ignorance of the Argentine reality. His reference to the administration of Menem as a time of great growth, when it was precisely the time when Argentina was hurling headlong toward its worst crisis in history, like a train with no brakes, was even more unfortunate.\"11. (C) Former president Nestor Kirchner said \"the statements by someone who should come with a different policy for Latin America are deplorable. Valenzuela belongs to the groups that participated in the Washington Consensus; the neo-liberal model that caused so much damage to the whole region.\" Kirchner ally Deputy AgustC-n Rossi (leader of the FpV bloc in the Chamber) said \"Valenzuela's visit was not encouraging. We thought the time when foreign officials came to lecture us was over.\" Regarding Valenzuela's comparison of the current reality with the one in the 1990s, he said: \"it is a fallacy to say we were better with Menem's administration; the cracks of the convertibility plan were evident and led Argentina to bankruptcy.\" The leader of the FpV bloc in the Senate, Miguel Pichetto, said \"Valenzuela keeps adding mistakes to the U.S. relation to Latin America, because a diplomat visiting a country should be much more cautious when commenting on our domestic politics and the economic recovery our government achieved.\" A couple of days later, at a December 20 political rally, Nestor Kirchner said \"disrespectful viceroys\" should first criticize what was happening in the United States. He blamed Argentina's loss of rule of law on the U.S. crisis that \"left millions of Americans without their jobs, homes or savings.\"Opposition is Divided-------------------------12. (C) Reaction among the opposition was divided. Some, such as Santa Fe governor Hermes Binner, a highly regarded moderate Socialist and possible presidential candidate, said that Valenzuela's remarks tracked very closely with complaints that, they, too had heard from the business community. Others, such asSocialist Senator Ruben Giustiniani, who usually coincides with Binner, objected to any foreign official relaying any criticism of Argentina, while Radical congressional deputy Ricardo AlfonsC-n took issue with what he interpreted as Valenzuela's praise for Menem policies in the 1990s: \"We, the Argentines, know that during those years there was a looting of national assets. For us, it was a disaster.\" However, the head of the Radical Party (UCR), Senator Ernesto Sanz (who joined Valenzuela's December 16 lunch with Vice President Cobos) said \"it seems it was necessary that a foreigner come to say this. We have been denouncing the lack of rule of law from Congress for four or five years. With each law the Kirchnerists passed, (the country) moved one step towards a lack of rule of law.\" Another prominent opposition leader, Deputy Margarita Stolbizer (GEN), said, \"Unfortunately, Valenzuela is right. This government condemned us to isolation because of lack of rule of law, and Valenzuela only relayed how the world sees us.\" Leftist congressional deputy and film director Pino Solanas (Proyecto Sur Bloc Leader) said, \"I strongly repudiate Arturo Valenzuela's statements. He is the envoy of the empire whose government has legitimized the coup in Honduras. Mr. Valenzuela represents the government that keeps thinking the disastrous and tragic 1990s for Argentina are a model to follow.\"Embassy Works to Smooth Feathers------------------------------------------13. (C) The Ambassador and other Country Team members used a December 17 reception for journalists to stress our desire to work constructively with Argentina, stressing our common interests and extensive cooperation. The Ambassador's conciliatory remarks received broad press play. The Ambassador called VFM Taccetti, who offered her a long explanation of why the GOA in the wake of the 2001-02 crisis had been forced to \"pesify\" contracts that had been denominated in dollars at a new exchange rate that was disadvantageous to foreign businesses. (Note: \"Pesification\" has been a common theme of many of the complaints that U.S. investors took to the World Bank's International Court for the Settlement of Investment Disputes.) Those pesified contracts nonetheless continued to be profitable, Taccetti claimed. He said Argentina's current challenge, however, was to maintain employment levels, which explained the GOA position regarding Kraft and other labor disputes. Taccetti asked if Washington could issue a conciliatory statement. The Ambassador also requested a meeting with Cabinet Chief Anibal Fernandez to urge a prompt end to GOA public complaining about A/S Valenzuela's remarks. Press reported widely A/S Valenzuela's clarification (delivered at his next stop, Montevideo) that he was merely relaying some concerns expressed to him by American businesses operating in Argentina.GOA Tones Down Its Commentary--------------------------------------------14. (C) The GOA's Telam news service sent December 18 a story that led with \"Cabinet Chief Anibal Fernandez sought today to lower the tone on the controversy generated by (Valenzuela's) remarks.\" The wire story quoted Fernandez saying he had \"a very good conversation with Valenzuela on important topics, and Valenzuela never mentioned concerns about rule of law.\" Fernandez claimed that Valenzuela had several years ago made similar claims about Argentine rule of law, suggesting a predisposition to judge Argentina. \"But this man is not the United States, no matter how important he is. The United States is the United States.\" Another wire service reported that VFM Taccetti said \"This topic has already passed. Maybe (Valenzuela) knows why he said it. We think it's absurd. We are looking straight ahead... I think the points of agreement between United States and Argentina were aired in the meetings we had. No one else in the region has been more firm on Iran. We are working in Haiti... The agreements are notable. In general, U.S. policies and ours on international matters are in agreement.\"AmCham Pleased with Press Coverage---------------------------------------------15. (C) AmCham told post's Commercial Counselor that it was taking a positive response to press inquiries, talking up the positive contributions their members make to Argentina's economy and their desire for dialogue with the GOA on the business and investment climate. Subsequently, some AmCham members told us privately that they were pleased a high-ranking U.S. diplomat publicly relayed their concerns. The AmCham President said he intended to take advantage of the opening offered by the MFA's request for specific concerns about the business climate by sending the MFA letter requesting a meeting to review concerns in detail.Comment----------16. (C) Once again, the Kirchner government has shown itself to be extremely thin-skinned and intolerant of perceived criticism. Concerns about the weakness of Argentina's institutions, and the rule of law in particular, are a dime a dozen in the Argentine press, voiced by academics, business leaders, judges, opposition politicians, pundits, and NGOs. Argentines are well aware that Argentina is not attracting as much investment as are Brazil, Chile, and others in the region. The business community's anxiety about arbitrary and capricious rule changes is well known to the Argentine public and the government. Only die-hard kirchneristas will agree with Randazzo's assertion that Argentina enjoys \"full institutional and juridical guarantees,\" or the MFA's contention that it is unaware of any dissatisfaction on the part of any American company. For most Argentines, those are laugh lines or cynically disingenuous statements. That said, we hope that this contretemps will soon peter out, as has happened in similar such episodes in the past.17. (U) This cable was cleared by WHA A/S Valenquela. MARTINEZ", "tags": ["N\u00e9stor Kirchner", "Argentina", "World news", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables"], "title": "US embassy cables: Argentina recoils at US questioning rule of law"},{"date": "2011-02-15T00:09:18Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Relations between the US and Argentina have deteriorated after Buenos Aires lodged a formal complaint over a US military plane that landed late last week carrying guns, drugs and satellite phones.The Argentinian government claimed the US was trying to sneak the weapons into the country, though it didn't offer an explanation of why Washington might want to do this.The US state department said the consignment was intended for a police training programme in Argentina.Officials from Argentina and the state department have been in talks aimed at resolving the row.The relationship between the two countries has been poor since Barack Obama released details of a Latin American tour next month that includes Brazil, Chile and El Salvador but not Argentina.The Argentinian foreign ministry, in a statement on Sunday night, said \"sensitive material\" had been seized that had not been declared on the inventory submitted by the US embassy, including weapons, GPS equipment and drugs such as morphine.It asked the US why its air force had attempted \"to violate Argentine laws by bringing in camouflaged material in an official shipment\".H\u00e9ctor Timerman, the Argentine foreign minister, said he had spoken with the US assistant secretary of state, Arturo Valenzuela, who \"refused to explain why they tried to pass this material\".The undeclared cargo has been confiscated.The state department said all the material had been declared and was destined for a training course Argentina had asked for in hostage rescue, adding that the drugs were routine medical kit.", "tags": ["Argentina", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Argentina accuses US of trying to smuggle weapons into country"},{"date": "2011-02-15T00:09:18Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Relations between the US and Argentina have deteriorated after Buenos Aires lodged a formal complaint over a US military plane that landed late last week carrying guns, drugs and satellite phones.The Argentinian government claimed the US was trying to sneak the weapons into the country, though it didn't offer an explanation of why Washington might want to do this.The US state department said the consignment was intended for a police training programme in Argentina.Officials from Argentina and the state department have been in talks aimed at resolving the row.The relationship between the two countries has been poor since Barack Obama released details of a Latin American tour next month that includes Brazil, Chile and El Salvador but not Argentina.The Argentinian foreign ministry, in a statement on Sunday night, said \"sensitive material\" had been seized that had not been declared on the inventory submitted by the US embassy, including weapons, GPS equipment and drugs such as morphine.It asked the US why its air force had attempted \"to violate Argentine laws by bringing in camouflaged material in an official shipment\".H\u00e9ctor Timerman, the Argentine foreign minister, said he had spoken with the US assistant secretary of state, Arturo Valenzuela, who \"refused to explain why they tried to pass this material\".The undeclared cargo has been confiscated.The state department said all the material had been declared and was destined for a training course Argentina had asked for in hostage rescue, adding that the drugs were routine medical kit.", "tags": ["Argentina", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Argentina accuses US of trying to smuggle weapons into country"},{"date": "2011-03-30T07:52:08Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thousands of Costan Rican fans turned out for the reopening of a state-of-the-art football stadium donated by the Chinese government.Around the Estadio Nacional stadium's perimeter, laser beams lit up the night sky, acrobats hurled themselves through the air and PAs blared dance music to create a carnival atmosphere in the Sabana neighbourhood of the capital, San Jos\u00e9.Inside the national team played out a goalless draw with Argentina, for whom Lionel Messi was a late withdrawal through injury.Yenia, a 27-year-old psychology student, said: \"I'm delighted with what they've built. It's so important for our country's infrastructure and for Costa Rican sport.\" She had no qualms about paying the $100 ticket price, despite predicting a 3-1 defeat for her team.A tout offering tickets for 150,000 colones (roughly \u00a3190) apiece said he had sold several, testament to the excitement surrounding the match.The project was funded and built by China as thanks for Costa Rica's former president, \u00d3scar Arias, formally establishing ties between the two countries.Not everyone was convinced by the gift. Jason, a 31-year-old laboratory technician, said he was \"very proud of the stadium, which we could never build ourselves\", but had reservations about his government's association with China. \"I don't like the fact that we have relations with a Communist country. Though clearly there are many financial incentives China can offer that [others] can't.\"Axel, 47, a San Jos\u00e9-based writer, said: \"If the Chinese give, they expect something in return. We are close to agreeing a free trade deal with China, and this is nothing but a sweetener. Also, China violates human rights, whilst we defend human rights, so it is very important to China's image to show they have a country like us on their side.\"The project has brought instant returns to the local area, with property prices rising tenfold since construction plans were announced. High-rise blocks of flats dwarf the stadium, allowing wealthy residents a view of the pitch and athletics track within.Policemen milled about as the well-behaved crowds streamed towards the turnstiles. \"We don't expect violence, only petty theft\", said one officer, noting the contrast with the rioting that has plagued domestic football in Costa Rica in recent years. No such rivalries abound tonight, with scores of Costa Rican fans sporting Argentina shirts.Although the match failed to live up to the hype, there are high hopes for the home team's prospects. \"We're just going to get better and better\", declared eight-year-old Ruben.", "tags": ["Costa Rica", "Costa Rica", "Argentina", "China", "World news", "Football", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Costa Rican football fans celebrate opening of stadium built by China"},{"date": "2011-02-15T00:09:18Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Relations between the US and Argentina have deteriorated after Buenos Aires lodged a formal complaint over a US military plane that landed late last week carrying guns, drugs and satellite phones.The Argentinian government claimed the US was trying to sneak the weapons into the country, though it didn't offer an explanation of why Washington might want to do this.The US state department said the consignment was intended for a police training programme in Argentina.Officials from Argentina and the state department have been in talks aimed at resolving the row.The relationship between the two countries has been poor since Barack Obama released details of a Latin American tour next month that includes Brazil, Chile and El Salvador but not Argentina.The Argentinian foreign ministry, in a statement on Sunday night, said \"sensitive material\" had been seized that had not been declared on the inventory submitted by the US embassy, including weapons, GPS equipment and drugs such as morphine.It asked the US why its air force had attempted \"to violate Argentine laws by bringing in camouflaged material in an official shipment\".H\u00e9ctor Timerman, the Argentine foreign minister, said he had spoken with the US assistant secretary of state, Arturo Valenzuela, who \"refused to explain why they tried to pass this material\".The undeclared cargo has been confiscated.The state department said all the material had been declared and was destined for a training course Argentina had asked for in hostage rescue, adding that the drugs were routine medical kit.", "tags": ["Argentina", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Argentina accuses US of trying to smuggle weapons into country"},{"date": "2011-03-30T07:52:08Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thousands of Costan Rican fans turned out for the reopening of a state-of-the-art football stadium donated by the Chinese government.Around the Estadio Nacional stadium's perimeter, laser beams lit up the night sky, acrobats hurled themselves through the air and PAs blared dance music to create a carnival atmosphere in the Sabana neighbourhood of the capital, San Jos\u00e9.Inside the national team played out a goalless draw with Argentina, for whom Lionel Messi was a late withdrawal through injury.Yenia, a 27-year-old psychology student, said: \"I'm delighted with what they've built. It's so important for our country's infrastructure and for Costa Rican sport.\" She had no qualms about paying the $100 ticket price, despite predicting a 3-1 defeat for her team.A tout offering tickets for 150,000 colones (roughly \u00a3190) apiece said he had sold several, testament to the excitement surrounding the match.The project was funded and built by China as thanks for Costa Rica's former president, \u00d3scar Arias, formally establishing ties between the two countries.Not everyone was convinced by the gift. Jason, a 31-year-old laboratory technician, said he was \"very proud of the stadium, which we could never build ourselves\", but had reservations about his government's association with China. \"I don't like the fact that we have relations with a Communist country. Though clearly there are many financial incentives China can offer that [others] can't.\"Axel, 47, a San Jos\u00e9-based writer, said: \"If the Chinese give, they expect something in return. We are close to agreeing a free trade deal with China, and this is nothing but a sweetener. Also, China violates human rights, whilst we defend human rights, so it is very important to China's image to show they have a country like us on their side.\"The project has brought instant returns to the local area, with property prices rising tenfold since construction plans were announced. High-rise blocks of flats dwarf the stadium, allowing wealthy residents a view of the pitch and athletics track within.Policemen milled about as the well-behaved crowds streamed towards the turnstiles. \"We don't expect violence, only petty theft\", said one officer, noting the contrast with the rioting that has plagued domestic football in Costa Rica in recent years. No such rivalries abound tonight, with scores of Costa Rican fans sporting Argentina shirts.Although the match failed to live up to the hype, there are high hopes for the home team's prospects. \"We're just going to get better and better\", declared eight-year-old Ruben.", "tags": ["Costa Rica", "Costa Rica", "Argentina", "China", "World news", "Football", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Costa Rican football fans celebrate opening of stadium built by China"},{"date": "2011-01-24T16:40:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Jorge Luis Borges was possibly the greatest Spanish-language writer of the 20th century, but the Chilean author Eduardo Labarca felt the best tribute a fellow writer could pay would be to urinate on his tomb.A photograph on the cover of 72-year-old Labarca's latest book appears to show him doing exactly that in the Geneva graveyard where Borges's well-tended, flower-adorned tomb lies.The photo has provoked outrage in Borges's native Argentina, even though Labarca admits the stream of water descending on the great man's grave actually came from a bottle of water hidden in his right hand.\"This is in bad taste and is a violation,\" said the Argentine culture minister, Jorge Coscia. \"You don't gain anything by urinating on a tomb.\"Labarca was unapologetic today about the cover to his book The Enigma of the Modules, saying it could best be understood by reading the work itself.\"Peeing on that tomb was a legitimate artistic act,\" he told the Guardian. \"The cover of the book is coherent with the contents and is best understood through that.\"Labarca is a translator, writer and journalist who went into exile and worked for a Soviet radio station after the coup d'\u00e9tat that overthrew Salvador Allende and brought in the dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet. He went on to work as a translator for various United Nations organisations and currently splits his time between Vienna and Chile.\"I am not just a person who goes around peeing on tombs, but a writer with a serious oeuvre,\" he said today.Labarca told Argentina's perfil.com that Borges's talent as a writer had not been matched by his behaviour outside literature.\"Anyone who is offended by this is very short-sighted,\" he said. \"Borges was a giant as a writer but I feel complete contempt for him as a citizen. As an old man, almost blind, he came to meet the dictator Pinochet in the days when he was busy killing.\"Borges was delighted with Pinochet. \"He is an excellent person,\" he said afterwards. \"The fact is that here, and in my country and in Uruguay, liberty and order are being saved.\"", "tags": ["Jorge Luis Borges", "Books", "Argentina", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Urinating on Jorge Luis Borges's grave was an artistic act, says Chilean writer"},{"date": "2011-02-15T00:09:18Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Relations between the US and Argentina have deteriorated after Buenos Aires lodged a formal complaint over a US military plane that landed late last week carrying guns, drugs and satellite phones.The Argentinian government claimed the US was trying to sneak the weapons into the country, though it didn't offer an explanation of why Washington might want to do this.The US state department said the consignment was intended for a police training programme in Argentina.Officials from Argentina and the state department have been in talks aimed at resolving the row.The relationship between the two countries has been poor since Barack Obama released details of a Latin American tour next month that includes Brazil, Chile and El Salvador but not Argentina.The Argentinian foreign ministry, in a statement on Sunday night, said \"sensitive material\" had been seized that had not been declared on the inventory submitted by the US embassy, including weapons, GPS equipment and drugs such as morphine.It asked the US why its air force had attempted \"to violate Argentine laws by bringing in camouflaged material in an official shipment\".H\u00e9ctor Timerman, the Argentine foreign minister, said he had spoken with the US assistant secretary of state, Arturo Valenzuela, who \"refused to explain why they tried to pass this material\".The undeclared cargo has been confiscated.The state department said all the material had been declared and was destined for a training course Argentina had asked for in hostage rescue, adding that the drugs were routine medical kit.", "tags": ["Argentina", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Argentina accuses US of trying to smuggle weapons into country"},{"date": "2011-03-30T07:52:08Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thousands of Costan Rican fans turned out for the reopening of a state-of-the-art football stadium donated by the Chinese government.Around the Estadio Nacional stadium's perimeter, laser beams lit up the night sky, acrobats hurled themselves through the air and PAs blared dance music to create a carnival atmosphere in the Sabana neighbourhood of the capital, San Jos\u00e9.Inside the national team played out a goalless draw with Argentina, for whom Lionel Messi was a late withdrawal through injury.Yenia, a 27-year-old psychology student, said: \"I'm delighted with what they've built. It's so important for our country's infrastructure and for Costa Rican sport.\" She had no qualms about paying the $100 ticket price, despite predicting a 3-1 defeat for her team.A tout offering tickets for 150,000 colones (roughly \u00a3190) apiece said he had sold several, testament to the excitement surrounding the match.The project was funded and built by China as thanks for Costa Rica's former president, \u00d3scar Arias, formally establishing ties between the two countries.Not everyone was convinced by the gift. Jason, a 31-year-old laboratory technician, said he was \"very proud of the stadium, which we could never build ourselves\", but had reservations about his government's association with China. \"I don't like the fact that we have relations with a Communist country. Though clearly there are many financial incentives China can offer that [others] can't.\"Axel, 47, a San Jos\u00e9-based writer, said: \"If the Chinese give, they expect something in return. We are close to agreeing a free trade deal with China, and this is nothing but a sweetener. Also, China violates human rights, whilst we defend human rights, so it is very important to China's image to show they have a country like us on their side.\"The project has brought instant returns to the local area, with property prices rising tenfold since construction plans were announced. High-rise blocks of flats dwarf the stadium, allowing wealthy residents a view of the pitch and athletics track within.Policemen milled about as the well-behaved crowds streamed towards the turnstiles. \"We don't expect violence, only petty theft\", said one officer, noting the contrast with the rioting that has plagued domestic football in Costa Rica in recent years. No such rivalries abound tonight, with scores of Costa Rican fans sporting Argentina shirts.Although the match failed to live up to the hype, there are high hopes for the home team's prospects. \"We're just going to get better and better\", declared eight-year-old Ruben.", "tags": ["Costa Rica", "Costa Rica", "Argentina", "China", "World news", "Football", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Costa Rican football fans celebrate opening of stadium built by China"},{"date": "2011-01-24T16:40:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Jorge Luis Borges was possibly the greatest Spanish-language writer of the 20th century, but the Chilean author Eduardo Labarca felt the best tribute a fellow writer could pay would be to urinate on his tomb.A photograph on the cover of 72-year-old Labarca's latest book appears to show him doing exactly that in the Geneva graveyard where Borges's well-tended, flower-adorned tomb lies.The photo has provoked outrage in Borges's native Argentina, even though Labarca admits the stream of water descending on the great man's grave actually came from a bottle of water hidden in his right hand.\"This is in bad taste and is a violation,\" said the Argentine culture minister, Jorge Coscia. \"You don't gain anything by urinating on a tomb.\"Labarca was unapologetic today about the cover to his book The Enigma of the Modules, saying it could best be understood by reading the work itself.\"Peeing on that tomb was a legitimate artistic act,\" he told the Guardian. \"The cover of the book is coherent with the contents and is best understood through that.\"Labarca is a translator, writer and journalist who went into exile and worked for a Soviet radio station after the coup d'\u00e9tat that overthrew Salvador Allende and brought in the dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet. He went on to work as a translator for various United Nations organisations and currently splits his time between Vienna and Chile.\"I am not just a person who goes around peeing on tombs, but a writer with a serious oeuvre,\" he said today.Labarca told Argentina's perfil.com that Borges's talent as a writer had not been matched by his behaviour outside literature.\"Anyone who is offended by this is very short-sighted,\" he said. \"Borges was a giant as a writer but I feel complete contempt for him as a citizen. As an old man, almost blind, he came to meet the dictator Pinochet in the days when he was busy killing.\"Borges was delighted with Pinochet. \"He is an excellent person,\" he said afterwards. \"The fact is that here, and in my country and in Uruguay, liberty and order are being saved.\"", "tags": ["Jorge Luis Borges", "Books", "Argentina", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Urinating on Jorge Luis Borges's grave was an artistic act, says Chilean writer"},{"date": "2011-03-05T00:07:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "This beautiful wooden nunnery, nestled up against lush green hills and looked down on by Hong Kong's ubiquitous tower blocks, was \u2013 apparently \u2013 constructed without using a single nail. It also serves up a mean plate of veggie noodles. Saunter round the immaculate gardens, keeping your eyes peeled for the waterfall. Find your way behind the cascades of water for a delicious meat-free set meal.60 Fung Tak Road, Diamond Hill, +852 2329 8811, nanliangarden.orgFranny34David Bann, EdinburghJust off Edinburgh's Royal Mile, David Bann is a modern, adventurous veggie restaurant. It says on the menu there are no microwaves in the kitchen, and you can taste the results of that in the food. The combinations are delicious and you get such a large portion that I have never managed to get through the full three courses. It's very reasonably priced (mains are \u00a310 to \u00a313) and guaranteed to be full on a Saturday night. Inspiration for the menu comes from all round the world and the puddings in particular are top-notch.56-58 St Mary's Street, 0131-556 5888, davidbann.comMedphysZeffirellis and Fellinis, AmblesideTwo vegetarian restaurants, a bar and cinema. Great vegetarian food, which is both well-presented and well-priced. Plus they have an offer of a cinema ticket and meal from \u00a317.95. The bar serves vegetarian food, drinks and has live jazz. Great atmosphere.Compston Road, 01539 433845, zeffirellis.comDieatbexWaterside Wholefood Cafe, KendalTucked away in one of the few riverside locations in Kendal, this is a longstanding favourite of many locals, but easily missed by visitors. It meets all the requirements of even the strictest veggies: there's a new menu every day, vegan and vegetarian meals are cooked on the premises with Fairtrade and organic ingredients, and served by friendly staff. If the weather's good enough, eat at the outside tables and watch the river flow by.Kent View, Kendal, Cumbria, 01539 729743, watersidewholefood.co.ukphildoTopaz cafe, Ashton-under-LyneThis foodie haven's aim is to provide healthy food using locally sourced, seasonal and ideally organic produce. Any profits are reinvested in the charity Tameside Mind. The menu is inventive, with spiced chickpeas, spinach and roasted peppers topped with grilled haloumi, or a Mexican stew with corn bread, and the prices are really low for the excellent quality of the food.216-218 Katherine Street, 0161-330 9223, topaz-ashton.orgfelinegreenDetoxretox, ManchesterSimon Rimmer's Greens has long been Manchester's go-to veggie venue, but it (finally) has competition from Detoxretox. Now open Wednesday to Sunday, it offers trad options like bangers and mash and a haloumi-based take on fish and chips, and interesting twists on meat-free standards like a cauliflower barley risotto.58 Mosley Street, 0161-236 1811, detoxretox.co.ukJoNightingaleRoots and fruits, LeedsRoots and fruits is a vegetarian institution. This unpretentious cafe in central Leeds offers a warm and homely welcome and a menu full of fresh and delicious fare. My favourite starter has to be the goat's cheese fritters with onion marmalade, and the full breakfast is equal to the task of conquering any hangover you care to throw in its path. The drinks menu includes an unrivalled choice of teas and fresh juice, but if you fancy a glass of wine then you're welcome to take your own.10-11 Grand Arcade, 0113-242 8313, rootsandfruits.netTroutiemcfishSqueek, NottinghamThe menu here offers vegetarian and vegan variations of the kind of meals that could not be easily made at home \u2013 there are no vegetarian cannelloni or pasta bakes here. The prices are affordable \u2013 a three-course evening meal is about \u00a317 \u2013 and there's a large choice of vegetarian, vegan and organic wines and beers. The atmosphere is relaxed and the clientele mixed; you feel comfortable whether you've dressed up or just rocked up as you are.23-25 Heathcoat Street, 0115-955 5560JacquelinaDemuths vegetarian restaurant, BathStep a mere 100m south from Bath Abbey and the Roman baths, and enter the finest vegetarian restaurant in Britain. Try the potato bonda (a green chilli potato ball in a gram flour batter served in a spiced tomato soup with toasted cumin oil) or the beetroot arancini (beetroot risotto balls stuffed with Somerset brie, served with apple jelly, yellow beetroot, pickled fennel and rocket on a pink grapefruit and mint dressing). Sample the Italian bitter chocolate cake and you may hear angels singing.2 North Parade Passage, 01225 446059, demuths.co.ukHerbalwalksAloka, BrightonAloka is a unique and totally raw food restaurant in the evenings from 6pm-9.30pm. Great for an alternative, healthy way of living if you're not a fan of the gym! During the day/lunchtime, it's vegan raw and cooked food. I have never tasted such different sensations in all my life.14 East St, 01273 823178, aloka.aura-soma.netSerenaSussexVegetarian Food Studio, CardiffThis restaurant is simply excellent. It serves pure vegetarian Asian food (no fish or eggs are used) at affordable prices. The menu has over 100 dishes so you can keep going back again and again trying something new each time. My favourite dish is masala dosa, a huge pancake of spiced potato which arrives with a spicy soup and cooling coconut chutney on the side. It tastes just as good as in the bustling cafes of India I remember so fondly.109 Penarth Road, 029-2023 8222, vegetarianfoodstudio.co.ukwelshtravellers La Zucca Magica, NiceThis is a quirky place, with every corner filled with pumpkins, fairy lights and newspaper clippings of the larger-than-life chef, Marco. It only offers a set meal of five courses \u2013 you don't see a menu, you just sit back and enjoy the ride! The selection changes daily, with favourites including delicious soups, homemade pasta and stuffed peppers, all full of flavour from the addition of local cheeses and fresh herbs. The meal isn't cheap and booking is essential as it's always full, but it's a real dining experience!4 bis, quai Papacino, +33 4 9356 2527, lazuccamagica.comJaynemoobsPrinz Myshkin, MunichEven non-vegetarians would be impressed with this restaurant. The place has a very contemporary feel with its high ceiling arches, tiled floor and trees growing in huge pots. There are rows and rows of busy tables served by staff that have a great knowledge of the menu and speak very good English. The food is always a little unusual but very tasty and hearty \u2013 and there's plenty of it. It's creative without being pretentious.Hackenstrasse 2, +49 8926 55 96, prinzmyshkin.comIrondownsouthYellow Sunshine, BerlinThe menu is extensive and has many veggie burger varieties such as cheese and \"bacon\", and Mexican (which comes with crunchy nachos and spicy peanut sauce). Most of the food here is organic or bio-certified \u2013 including the yummy chips. There's a good range of beers (or fruit shakes for non-drinkers!) But the funky, warm atmosphere is another great reason to check out Yellow Sunshine \u2013 helped by the fact it is located in happening Kreuzberg. And with burgers averaging around \u20ac4, you'll have some money left for going out later!Wiener Strasse 19, +49 30 6959 8720, yellow-sunshine.comAndreaJaneEl Vegetariano de la Alcazabilla, MalagaAfter several months in Spain, any vegetarian restaurant is a marvellous find. We had the vegan plate: an appetising and generous selection of vegan finger food and salads. The restaurant decor is cheerful and quirky, with comments and quotes from previous customers written on the walls and mobiles of tin jugs and colourful mirrors. We were there in December and sat snugly inside; in summer you may want to use the shady terrace.Calle Pozo del Rey 5, +39 952 21 48 58happyyetpoorBodhi Choi Heung vegetarian restaurant, VancouverA great choice for Chinese vegetarian food \u2013 you'll see large families here and even some Buddhist monks and nuns, enjoying vegetarian versions of Cantonese classics, beautifully cooked vegetables and tofu, as well as mock-meat dishes. The decor may be plain, but this restaurant deserves its popularity among the local Chinese population.3932 Fraser Street, +1 604-873-3848JeykoMillennium restaurant, San FranciscoDown a very unassuming (and long) street hides Millennium. We went for the tasting menu and matching wine, and the chef must have been in a good mood as we ended up with six courses instead of the usual five. From blue corn tamale to sweet potato griddle cake, finishing with a variety of puddings, it was a delight from beginning to end. You'll leave purring and happy if not a little heavier!580 Geary Street, +1 415 345 3900, millenniumrestaurant.comSupertwitcherEl Vegetariano, BarilocheAmid the steakhouses and asados for ravenous carnivores of this meat-crazed nation hides a hidden gem of vegtastic proportions. Serving freshly squeezed juices, a truly mouthwatering seasonal menu and divine puddings, this place has caught the eye of even the most hardened meat-eater. On our visit we dined on a seasonal lunch platter of five different delights \u2013 the courgette fritters were particularly scrumptious.20 De Febrero 720MattywillPure Lotus, BeijingPure Lotus is a wonderful vegetarian restaurant in central Beijing serving all sorts of delicious tofu dishes, including a vegetarian sausage called the \"Buddha's Finger\". There is a sense of occasion from the minute you arrive in the candlelit entrance area and the food is presented exquisitely. We had dumplings and chilli tofu, washed down with jasmine tea.10 Nongzhanguan Nanlu, Chaoyang, +86 10 65 923 627 Lucycaldicott", "tags": ["Food and drink", "Bath holidays", "Edinburgh holidays", "Leeds holidays", "Manchester holidays", "Brighton holidays", "Berlin holidays", "Beijing holidays", "Cardiff holidays", "Munich holidays", "Nice holidays", "Vancouver holidays", "San Francisco holidays", "Travel", "Vegetarianism", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Readers' tips: vegetarian restaurants"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:26:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is to consider granting a special pension to writers on the grounds that they generate \"social richness\" but often end up impoverished.The lower house of congress will study a proposal presented on Tuesday that would give published authors a monthly stipend of \u00a3565, well above the state minimum pension.The idea, inspired by similar initiatives in France and Spain, would offer the pension to those who are aged over 65 and have published at least five books or invested more than 20 years in \"literary creation\".\"Writers support the general culture of a community. They are individual creators who generate a sort of social richness that is difficult to quantify,\" Carlos Heller, a deputy from the socialist party who sponsored the initiative, told the BBC.Some analysts said the proposal, coming from a party which supports the president, Cristina Kirchner, appeared linked to her expected run for a second term in October's election. Recent populist measures include sending trucks with cheaply priced meat to poor neighbourhoods.Mario Goloboff, a writer and university professor, said the pension would remedy a cultural anomaly. \"The state grants prestige to intellectuals but that isn't payment.\" He said hundreds of Argentine writers dedicated their lives to literary output only to struggle financially in old age, and \"they deserve a pension\".Graciela Araoz, head of the Argentine Writers' Society, said the law would enable elderly authors \"to live with dignity for the rest of their lives\".The city of Buenos Aires, proud of a national literary tradition which boasts Roberto Arlt, Julio Cort\u00e1zar and Jorge Luis Borges, approved a similar proposal in 2006 which granted a monthly pension of almost \u00a3400.Of around 100 applicants to date 72 have been approved, a low number which should calm those worried about the fiscal implications of the scheme going national, Victor Redondo, a poet and member of the Argentine Writers' Society, told the BBC.\"It is not easy to publish five books in Argentina. They have to be registered with ISBN numbers and published by publishing houses. A commission of legislators, academics and writers would judge whether an applicant had invested more than 20 years in literary creation and weed out those whose books were self-published.Jorge Boccanera, one of the dozens of published writers in congress, welcomed the proposed legislation, telling the newspaper Clarin it would boost \"imagination and the comprehension of the world\". Vicente Battista, another author and member of congress, was even more lyrical, saying congress had a piece of \"utopia\" in its hands.Argentines consider their country the literary capital of South America and like to name streets after famous authors. The number of titles published annually has more than doubled in the past decade.Argentine fiction is known for cerebral plots and philosophising but a new generation of writers has embraced topics such as sex, the internet and Dan Brown-style stories.The pension proposal comes in the middle of the Buenos Aires book fair, one of the world's biggest literary expos. Some ministers and pro-government intellectuals criticised an invitation to Mario Vargas Llosa because of his criticisms of leftwing governments in Latin America, including Kirchner's.The president dampened the row by saying the Nobel laureate had every right to attend, earning thanks from the Peruvian novelist in his speech which opened the fair.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Books", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Argentina considers paying writers a pension"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:26:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is to consider granting a special pension to writers on the grounds that they generate \"social richness\" but often end up impoverished.The lower house of congress will study a proposal presented on Tuesday that would give published authors a monthly stipend of \u00a3565, well above the state minimum pension.The idea, inspired by similar initiatives in France and Spain, would offer the pension to those who are aged over 65 and have published at least five books or invested more than 20 years in \"literary creation\".\"Writers support the general culture of a community. They are individual creators who generate a sort of social richness that is difficult to quantify,\" Carlos Heller, a deputy from the socialist party who sponsored the initiative, told the BBC.Some analysts said the proposal, coming from a party which supports the president, Cristina Kirchner, appeared linked to her expected run for a second term in October's election. Recent populist measures include sending trucks with cheaply priced meat to poor neighbourhoods.Mario Goloboff, a writer and university professor, said the pension would remedy a cultural anomaly. \"The state grants prestige to intellectuals but that isn't payment.\" He said hundreds of Argentine writers dedicated their lives to literary output only to struggle financially in old age, and \"they deserve a pension\".Graciela Araoz, head of the Argentine Writers' Society, said the law would enable elderly authors \"to live with dignity for the rest of their lives\".The city of Buenos Aires, proud of a national literary tradition which boasts Roberto Arlt, Julio Cort\u00e1zar and Jorge Luis Borges, approved a similar proposal in 2006 which granted a monthly pension of almost \u00a3400.Of around 100 applicants to date 72 have been approved, a low number which should calm those worried about the fiscal implications of the scheme going national, Victor Redondo, a poet and member of the Argentine Writers' Society, told the BBC.\"It is not easy to publish five books in Argentina. They have to be registered with ISBN numbers and published by publishing houses. A commission of legislators, academics and writers would judge whether an applicant had invested more than 20 years in literary creation and weed out those whose books were self-published.Jorge Boccanera, one of the dozens of published writers in congress, welcomed the proposed legislation, telling the newspaper Clarin it would boost \"imagination and the comprehension of the world\". Vicente Battista, another author and member of congress, was even more lyrical, saying congress had a piece of \"utopia\" in its hands.Argentines consider their country the literary capital of South America and like to name streets after famous authors. The number of titles published annually has more than doubled in the past decade.Argentine fiction is known for cerebral plots and philosophising but a new generation of writers has embraced topics such as sex, the internet and Dan Brown-style stories.The pension proposal comes in the middle of the Buenos Aires book fair, one of the world's biggest literary expos. Some ministers and pro-government intellectuals criticised an invitation to Mario Vargas Llosa because of his criticisms of leftwing governments in Latin America, including Kirchner's.The president dampened the row by saying the Nobel laureate had every right to attend, earning thanks from the Peruvian novelist in his speech which opened the fair.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Books", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Argentina considers paying writers a pension"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:04:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The world's four largest grain traders, responsible for the vast majority of global corn, soya and wheat trading and processing, have been accused of large-scale tax evasion in a landmark series of cases being brought against them by the Argentinian government.In an interview with the Guardian, Ricardo Echegaray, the head of Afip, the country's revenue and customs service, has given a detailed account of the charges his department is bringing against ADM, Bunge, Cargill and Dreyfus.\"These companies have gone into criminality,\" Echegaray said. \"2008 was when agricultural commodities prices spiked and was the best year for them in prices, yet we could see that the companies with the biggest sales showed very little profit in this country.\"The Guardian has learned from separate sources that Afip is seeking to claim\u00a0$476m (\u00a3290m) for what it says are unpaid tax and duties from Bunge, $252m from Cargill and $140m from Dreyfus. The companies have all denied all the allegations and have said they will defend themselves vigorously.With the global food system and who controls it under intense scrutiny in recent weeks, thanks to record prices, the legal battle between Afip and the \"ABCD four\", as they are known, has taken on heightened significance.Oxfam, in a report earlier this week, warned of spiralling prices and a huge increase in global hunger over the next two decades, and said that corporate concentration in the global food trade was a structural flaw in the system.Echegaray said he had begun investigating Argentina's large business taxpayers towards the end of 2008, cross-checking information given to his authorities with that from other countries where their exports were destined, by making use of tax information exchange treaties \u2013 some of which have been newly signed. He also cross-checked declarations made to Argentinian customs with corporate income tax returns.He said he had evidence from his detailed inquiry that all four traders had submitted false declarations of sales and routed profits through tax havens or their headquarters, in contravention of Argentinian tax law.He also alleged they had on occasion used phantom firms to buy grain. He further alleged that they had inflated costs in Argentina to reduce taxable profits or claim tax credits there.The Afip inquiry has focused on the traders' sales to Uruguay, among other low-tax jurisdictions.Echegaray said Bunge had set up an office in the tax-free zone of Montevideo through which it began routing its exports after 2007, from which point it declared no gains in Argentina. He alleged his checks had revealed that Bunge employed only\u00a0a handful of people in Uruguay's capital, and that it had no real imports or exports from that office other than small items for those staff. Bunge was expelled from the Argentine exporters' register last week.Bunge denied the allegations absolutely and was adamant it had broken no laws or tax rules. \"We believe that we have done nothing wrong and that our past tax payments are complete. This is an issue that is not unique to Bunge, or even our industry. We will continue to take the appropriate legal steps to defend ourselves,\" it said in a statement.Echegaray alleged that Cargill had also used Uruguay and Swiss subsidiaries to evade taxes in Argentina. Cargill, ADM and Dreyfus were suspended from the exporters' register by the government earlier this year as a result of the investigation.Cargill said: \"All the allegations made about Cargill are false. Cargill complies with all Argentine tax and customs regulations. We are vigorously defending various tax and customs audits and litigation.\"ADM responded that it \"conducts business in accordance with the laws, including those governing tax obligations, in the countries where we operate. We are cooperating with Afip to successfully resolve this situation.\"Dreyfus declined to comment, but according to Ciara, the grain exporters' trade association in Argentina, it too denies all the charges.Ciara's president, Alberto Rodriguez, described the government's claims of tax evasion as political posturing.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Argentina", "Food & drink industry", "Food", "Food security", "Farming", "Uruguay", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina accuses world's largest grain traders of huge tax evasion"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:26:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is to consider granting a special pension to writers on the grounds that they generate \"social richness\" but often end up impoverished.The lower house of congress will study a proposal presented on Tuesday that would give published authors a monthly stipend of \u00a3565, well above the state minimum pension.The idea, inspired by similar initiatives in France and Spain, would offer the pension to those who are aged over 65 and have published at least five books or invested more than 20 years in \"literary creation\".\"Writers support the general culture of a community. They are individual creators who generate a sort of social richness that is difficult to quantify,\" Carlos Heller, a deputy from the socialist party who sponsored the initiative, told the BBC.Some analysts said the proposal, coming from a party which supports the president, Cristina Kirchner, appeared linked to her expected run for a second term in October's election. Recent populist measures include sending trucks with cheaply priced meat to poor neighbourhoods.Mario Goloboff, a writer and university professor, said the pension would remedy a cultural anomaly. \"The state grants prestige to intellectuals but that isn't payment.\" He said hundreds of Argentine writers dedicated their lives to literary output only to struggle financially in old age, and \"they deserve a pension\".Graciela Araoz, head of the Argentine Writers' Society, said the law would enable elderly authors \"to live with dignity for the rest of their lives\".The city of Buenos Aires, proud of a national literary tradition which boasts Roberto Arlt, Julio Cort\u00e1zar and Jorge Luis Borges, approved a similar proposal in 2006 which granted a monthly pension of almost \u00a3400.Of around 100 applicants to date 72 have been approved, a low number which should calm those worried about the fiscal implications of the scheme going national, Victor Redondo, a poet and member of the Argentine Writers' Society, told the BBC.\"It is not easy to publish five books in Argentina. They have to be registered with ISBN numbers and published by publishing houses. A commission of legislators, academics and writers would judge whether an applicant had invested more than 20 years in literary creation and weed out those whose books were self-published.Jorge Boccanera, one of the dozens of published writers in congress, welcomed the proposed legislation, telling the newspaper Clarin it would boost \"imagination and the comprehension of the world\". Vicente Battista, another author and member of congress, was even more lyrical, saying congress had a piece of \"utopia\" in its hands.Argentines consider their country the literary capital of South America and like to name streets after famous authors. The number of titles published annually has more than doubled in the past decade.Argentine fiction is known for cerebral plots and philosophising but a new generation of writers has embraced topics such as sex, the internet and Dan Brown-style stories.The pension proposal comes in the middle of the Buenos Aires book fair, one of the world's biggest literary expos. Some ministers and pro-government intellectuals criticised an invitation to Mario Vargas Llosa because of his criticisms of leftwing governments in Latin America, including Kirchner's.The president dampened the row by saying the Nobel laureate had every right to attend, earning thanks from the Peruvian novelist in his speech which opened the fair.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Books", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Argentina considers paying writers a pension"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:04:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The world's four largest grain traders, responsible for the vast majority of global corn, soya and wheat trading and processing, have been accused of large-scale tax evasion in a landmark series of cases being brought against them by the Argentinian government.In an interview with the Guardian, Ricardo Echegaray, the head of Afip, the country's revenue and customs service, has given a detailed account of the charges his department is bringing against ADM, Bunge, Cargill and Dreyfus.\"These companies have gone into criminality,\" Echegaray said. \"2008 was when agricultural commodities prices spiked and was the best year for them in prices, yet we could see that the companies with the biggest sales showed very little profit in this country.\"The Guardian has learned from separate sources that Afip is seeking to claim\u00a0$476m (\u00a3290m) for what it says are unpaid tax and duties from Bunge, $252m from Cargill and $140m from Dreyfus. The companies have all denied all the allegations and have said they will defend themselves vigorously.With the global food system and who controls it under intense scrutiny in recent weeks, thanks to record prices, the legal battle between Afip and the \"ABCD four\", as they are known, has taken on heightened significance.Oxfam, in a report earlier this week, warned of spiralling prices and a huge increase in global hunger over the next two decades, and said that corporate concentration in the global food trade was a structural flaw in the system.Echegaray said he had begun investigating Argentina's large business taxpayers towards the end of 2008, cross-checking information given to his authorities with that from other countries where their exports were destined, by making use of tax information exchange treaties \u2013 some of which have been newly signed. He also cross-checked declarations made to Argentinian customs with corporate income tax returns.He said he had evidence from his detailed inquiry that all four traders had submitted false declarations of sales and routed profits through tax havens or their headquarters, in contravention of Argentinian tax law.He also alleged they had on occasion used phantom firms to buy grain. He further alleged that they had inflated costs in Argentina to reduce taxable profits or claim tax credits there.The Afip inquiry has focused on the traders' sales to Uruguay, among other low-tax jurisdictions.Echegaray said Bunge had set up an office in the tax-free zone of Montevideo through which it began routing its exports after 2007, from which point it declared no gains in Argentina. He alleged his checks had revealed that Bunge employed only\u00a0a handful of people in Uruguay's capital, and that it had no real imports or exports from that office other than small items for those staff. Bunge was expelled from the Argentine exporters' register last week.Bunge denied the allegations absolutely and was adamant it had broken no laws or tax rules. \"We believe that we have done nothing wrong and that our past tax payments are complete. This is an issue that is not unique to Bunge, or even our industry. We will continue to take the appropriate legal steps to defend ourselves,\" it said in a statement.Echegaray alleged that Cargill had also used Uruguay and Swiss subsidiaries to evade taxes in Argentina. Cargill, ADM and Dreyfus were suspended from the exporters' register by the government earlier this year as a result of the investigation.Cargill said: \"All the allegations made about Cargill are false. Cargill complies with all Argentine tax and customs regulations. We are vigorously defending various tax and customs audits and litigation.\"ADM responded that it \"conducts business in accordance with the laws, including those governing tax obligations, in the countries where we operate. We are cooperating with Afip to successfully resolve this situation.\"Dreyfus declined to comment, but according to Ciara, the grain exporters' trade association in Argentina, it too denies all the charges.Ciara's president, Alberto Rodriguez, described the government's claims of tax evasion as political posturing.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Argentina", "Food & drink industry", "Food", "Food security", "Farming", "Uruguay", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina accuses world's largest grain traders of huge tax evasion"},{"date": "2011-06-01T12:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The attraction to the Chinese of access to an area of land in Patagonia larger than Cornwall is obvious. As China's economy grows and its population becomes more urbanised, diets are changing rapidly. People are eating more industrially produced meat and dairy products, and buying more processed foods.Soya is the feedstock for this revolution, but demand for it can no longer be met within China. So the Chinese state-owned agribusiness company Beidahuang has joined the global scramble for land and water that has accelerated since food prices spiked in 2008.Last year it was confirmed that the company had signed an agreement, with the government of Patagonia's R\u00edo Negro province, which provides the framework for it to acquire up to 320,000 hectares (790,000 acres) of privately owned farmland, along with irrigation rights and a concession on the San Antonio port.Details of the deal, alleged to have been kept quiet, have been emerging in recent weeks as Chinese technicians have started work.Beidahuang has also reported a 2008 deal on 200,000 ha in the Philippines, and says it plans to buy palm oil plantations and grain terminals this year as it pursues the Chinese government's policy of securing food supply lines from abroad.Beidahuang, based in the north-eastern province of Heilongjiang, is the leading soya producer in China and one of the country's five largest soya processors. It also raises more than 600,000 cows, 1.3m pigs and more than 6m chickens at any one time.The company believes its expertise in large-scale farming can be transferred to Argentina, according to Juan Manuel Accatino, the region's deputy secretary for agriculture in R\u00edo Negro, who was close to the deal. The arrangement made good economic sense, Accatino said. \"We can foresee global shortages of land, water and energy, and R\u00edo Negro can offer all three.\"Argentinian environmental groups and constitutional experts are outraged. Eduardo Barcesat is a top constitutional lawyer who has been helping the federal government of the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, draft legislation that would restrict foreign ownership of Argentinian land. The laws would also provide, for the first time, a full register of all landholding so that authorities can keep track of who owns what.\"Chinese and Indian people have been coming to Argentina over the last five years and would be happy to buy all our land, whatever the price. American businesses have been buying access to our water,\" Barcesat said. \"We need our own people to eat well first, and after that we can feed the rest of the world. We want more small and middle-sized owners, we don't like the excessive concentration, and we want farmers who will be careful with the land, not exploit it.\"Research from the International Land Coalition, and Oxfam Novib, the Netherlands affiliate of Oxfam International, has identified more than 1,200 international land deals covering more than 80m hectares since 2000 \u2013 the vast majority of them after 2007. More than 60% of the land targeted was in Africa.The R\u00edo Negro region is famous for its fruit orchards, which produce 70% of the country's apples and pears, exports eaten in northern Europe when the fruit season in that continent ends.Environmentalists in R\u00edo Negro say the Chinese arrival will mean heavy use of agrochemicals, ecological degradation and severe strain on the region's water resources. Some of the land in question is virgin forest that would be deforested.Dams have already cut the flow of the Negro river, they say, and Chinese plans to invest $20m (\u00a312m) immediately to build irrigation infrastructure would strain resources further. The campaigners say that since soya cultivation is highly mechanised it will prompt unemployment in the area, as it has elsewhere in the country where many rural communities have seen an increase in deep poverty as jobs are lost.Elvio Mendioroz, president of U\u00f1opat\u00fan, an agro-ecoclogical group that opposes the Chinese deal, said the agreement had been kept secret. \"China has run out of land to feed its people, and is suffering drought and soil erosion, so they come here.\"But it will create the same problems for us. There has been no consultation, yet it's already signed.\"Accatino thinks the deal has been misunderstood. R\u00edo Negro's provincial government was merely acting as a facilitator for the Chinese, he said, who would have to negotiate with the private owners of land to buy sections. The port concession, reported as being for 50 years, would depend on an evaluation of its feasibility.Accatino said: \"We will take into account the environmental concern about further expansion of soya and dependency of this monoculture. We would never endanger the Negro river.\"", "tags": ["Global development", "Food security", "China", "Argentina", "World news", "Farming", "Environment", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Global food crisis: China land deal causes unease in Argentina | Felicity Lawrence"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:26:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is to consider granting a special pension to writers on the grounds that they generate \"social richness\" but often end up impoverished.The lower house of congress will study a proposal presented on Tuesday that would give published authors a monthly stipend of \u00a3565, well above the state minimum pension.The idea, inspired by similar initiatives in France and Spain, would offer the pension to those who are aged over 65 and have published at least five books or invested more than 20 years in \"literary creation\".\"Writers support the general culture of a community. They are individual creators who generate a sort of social richness that is difficult to quantify,\" Carlos Heller, a deputy from the socialist party who sponsored the initiative, told the BBC.Some analysts said the proposal, coming from a party which supports the president, Cristina Kirchner, appeared linked to her expected run for a second term in October's election. Recent populist measures include sending trucks with cheaply priced meat to poor neighbourhoods.Mario Goloboff, a writer and university professor, said the pension would remedy a cultural anomaly. \"The state grants prestige to intellectuals but that isn't payment.\" He said hundreds of Argentine writers dedicated their lives to literary output only to struggle financially in old age, and \"they deserve a pension\".Graciela Araoz, head of the Argentine Writers' Society, said the law would enable elderly authors \"to live with dignity for the rest of their lives\".The city of Buenos Aires, proud of a national literary tradition which boasts Roberto Arlt, Julio Cort\u00e1zar and Jorge Luis Borges, approved a similar proposal in 2006 which granted a monthly pension of almost \u00a3400.Of around 100 applicants to date 72 have been approved, a low number which should calm those worried about the fiscal implications of the scheme going national, Victor Redondo, a poet and member of the Argentine Writers' Society, told the BBC.\"It is not easy to publish five books in Argentina. They have to be registered with ISBN numbers and published by publishing houses. A commission of legislators, academics and writers would judge whether an applicant had invested more than 20 years in literary creation and weed out those whose books were self-published.Jorge Boccanera, one of the dozens of published writers in congress, welcomed the proposed legislation, telling the newspaper Clarin it would boost \"imagination and the comprehension of the world\". Vicente Battista, another author and member of congress, was even more lyrical, saying congress had a piece of \"utopia\" in its hands.Argentines consider their country the literary capital of South America and like to name streets after famous authors. The number of titles published annually has more than doubled in the past decade.Argentine fiction is known for cerebral plots and philosophising but a new generation of writers has embraced topics such as sex, the internet and Dan Brown-style stories.The pension proposal comes in the middle of the Buenos Aires book fair, one of the world's biggest literary expos. Some ministers and pro-government intellectuals criticised an invitation to Mario Vargas Llosa because of his criticisms of leftwing governments in Latin America, including Kirchner's.The president dampened the row by saying the Nobel laureate had every right to attend, earning thanks from the Peruvian novelist in his speech which opened the fair.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Books", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Argentina considers paying writers a pension"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:04:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The world's four largest grain traders, responsible for the vast majority of global corn, soya and wheat trading and processing, have been accused of large-scale tax evasion in a landmark series of cases being brought against them by the Argentinian government.In an interview with the Guardian, Ricardo Echegaray, the head of Afip, the country's revenue and customs service, has given a detailed account of the charges his department is bringing against ADM, Bunge, Cargill and Dreyfus.\"These companies have gone into criminality,\" Echegaray said. \"2008 was when agricultural commodities prices spiked and was the best year for them in prices, yet we could see that the companies with the biggest sales showed very little profit in this country.\"The Guardian has learned from separate sources that Afip is seeking to claim\u00a0$476m (\u00a3290m) for what it says are unpaid tax and duties from Bunge, $252m from Cargill and $140m from Dreyfus. The companies have all denied all the allegations and have said they will defend themselves vigorously.With the global food system and who controls it under intense scrutiny in recent weeks, thanks to record prices, the legal battle between Afip and the \"ABCD four\", as they are known, has taken on heightened significance.Oxfam, in a report earlier this week, warned of spiralling prices and a huge increase in global hunger over the next two decades, and said that corporate concentration in the global food trade was a structural flaw in the system.Echegaray said he had begun investigating Argentina's large business taxpayers towards the end of 2008, cross-checking information given to his authorities with that from other countries where their exports were destined, by making use of tax information exchange treaties \u2013 some of which have been newly signed. He also cross-checked declarations made to Argentinian customs with corporate income tax returns.He said he had evidence from his detailed inquiry that all four traders had submitted false declarations of sales and routed profits through tax havens or their headquarters, in contravention of Argentinian tax law.He also alleged they had on occasion used phantom firms to buy grain. He further alleged that they had inflated costs in Argentina to reduce taxable profits or claim tax credits there.The Afip inquiry has focused on the traders' sales to Uruguay, among other low-tax jurisdictions.Echegaray said Bunge had set up an office in the tax-free zone of Montevideo through which it began routing its exports after 2007, from which point it declared no gains in Argentina. He alleged his checks had revealed that Bunge employed only\u00a0a handful of people in Uruguay's capital, and that it had no real imports or exports from that office other than small items for those staff. Bunge was expelled from the Argentine exporters' register last week.Bunge denied the allegations absolutely and was adamant it had broken no laws or tax rules. \"We believe that we have done nothing wrong and that our past tax payments are complete. This is an issue that is not unique to Bunge, or even our industry. We will continue to take the appropriate legal steps to defend ourselves,\" it said in a statement.Echegaray alleged that Cargill had also used Uruguay and Swiss subsidiaries to evade taxes in Argentina. Cargill, ADM and Dreyfus were suspended from the exporters' register by the government earlier this year as a result of the investigation.Cargill said: \"All the allegations made about Cargill are false. Cargill complies with all Argentine tax and customs regulations. We are vigorously defending various tax and customs audits and litigation.\"ADM responded that it \"conducts business in accordance with the laws, including those governing tax obligations, in the countries where we operate. We are cooperating with Afip to successfully resolve this situation.\"Dreyfus declined to comment, but according to Ciara, the grain exporters' trade association in Argentina, it too denies all the charges.Ciara's president, Alberto Rodriguez, described the government's claims of tax evasion as political posturing.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Argentina", "Food & drink industry", "Food", "Food security", "Farming", "Uruguay", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina accuses world's largest grain traders of huge tax evasion"},{"date": "2011-06-01T12:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The attraction to the Chinese of access to an area of land in Patagonia larger than Cornwall is obvious. As China's economy grows and its population becomes more urbanised, diets are changing rapidly. People are eating more industrially produced meat and dairy products, and buying more processed foods.Soya is the feedstock for this revolution, but demand for it can no longer be met within China. So the Chinese state-owned agribusiness company Beidahuang has joined the global scramble for land and water that has accelerated since food prices spiked in 2008.Last year it was confirmed that the company had signed an agreement, with the government of Patagonia's R\u00edo Negro province, which provides the framework for it to acquire up to 320,000 hectares (790,000 acres) of privately owned farmland, along with irrigation rights and a concession on the San Antonio port.Details of the deal, alleged to have been kept quiet, have been emerging in recent weeks as Chinese technicians have started work.Beidahuang has also reported a 2008 deal on 200,000 ha in the Philippines, and says it plans to buy palm oil plantations and grain terminals this year as it pursues the Chinese government's policy of securing food supply lines from abroad.Beidahuang, based in the north-eastern province of Heilongjiang, is the leading soya producer in China and one of the country's five largest soya processors. It also raises more than 600,000 cows, 1.3m pigs and more than 6m chickens at any one time.The company believes its expertise in large-scale farming can be transferred to Argentina, according to Juan Manuel Accatino, the region's deputy secretary for agriculture in R\u00edo Negro, who was close to the deal. The arrangement made good economic sense, Accatino said. \"We can foresee global shortages of land, water and energy, and R\u00edo Negro can offer all three.\"Argentinian environmental groups and constitutional experts are outraged. Eduardo Barcesat is a top constitutional lawyer who has been helping the federal government of the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, draft legislation that would restrict foreign ownership of Argentinian land. The laws would also provide, for the first time, a full register of all landholding so that authorities can keep track of who owns what.\"Chinese and Indian people have been coming to Argentina over the last five years and would be happy to buy all our land, whatever the price. American businesses have been buying access to our water,\" Barcesat said. \"We need our own people to eat well first, and after that we can feed the rest of the world. We want more small and middle-sized owners, we don't like the excessive concentration, and we want farmers who will be careful with the land, not exploit it.\"Research from the International Land Coalition, and Oxfam Novib, the Netherlands affiliate of Oxfam International, has identified more than 1,200 international land deals covering more than 80m hectares since 2000 \u2013 the vast majority of them after 2007. More than 60% of the land targeted was in Africa.The R\u00edo Negro region is famous for its fruit orchards, which produce 70% of the country's apples and pears, exports eaten in northern Europe when the fruit season in that continent ends.Environmentalists in R\u00edo Negro say the Chinese arrival will mean heavy use of agrochemicals, ecological degradation and severe strain on the region's water resources. Some of the land in question is virgin forest that would be deforested.Dams have already cut the flow of the Negro river, they say, and Chinese plans to invest $20m (\u00a312m) immediately to build irrigation infrastructure would strain resources further. The campaigners say that since soya cultivation is highly mechanised it will prompt unemployment in the area, as it has elsewhere in the country where many rural communities have seen an increase in deep poverty as jobs are lost.Elvio Mendioroz, president of U\u00f1opat\u00fan, an agro-ecoclogical group that opposes the Chinese deal, said the agreement had been kept secret. \"China has run out of land to feed its people, and is suffering drought and soil erosion, so they come here.\"But it will create the same problems for us. There has been no consultation, yet it's already signed.\"Accatino thinks the deal has been misunderstood. R\u00edo Negro's provincial government was merely acting as a facilitator for the Chinese, he said, who would have to negotiate with the private owners of land to buy sections. The port concession, reported as being for 50 years, would depend on an evaluation of its feasibility.Accatino said: \"We will take into account the environmental concern about further expansion of soya and dependency of this monoculture. We would never endanger the Negro river.\"", "tags": ["Global development", "Food security", "China", "Argentina", "World news", "Farming", "Environment", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Global food crisis: China land deal causes unease in Argentina | Felicity Lawrence"},{"date": "2011-06-01T17:59:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Pampas are just as the old geography textbooks described them: vast flat plains stretching to distant horizons, white heads of tall grasses catching the autumn light. A great empty road ploughs a furrow from Buenos Aires through mile upon mile of fertile lands towards the ports on the great South American waterway, the Paran\u00e1 river.But missing from much of the Pampas now are the Argentinian beef cattle that used to be synonymous with this region that makes up one of the world's most expansive grazing lands.The way-markers today are grain silos, agricultural hangars for harvesting machines, and banner adverts across nearly every field for agrochemicals and genetically modified soya seed.Occasionally, the green and orange logo of Monsanto's Roundup glyphosphate herbicide gives way to an election poster for the Per\u00f3nist president, Cristina Kirchner, or to a rival chemical or seed company's billboard. But there's no question who dominates the landscape here.Less visible at first, and strangely unfamiliar to consumers in the UK, are the big four transnational exporters that dominate the other half of the soya complex, the so-called ABCD group of companies: ADM, Bunge, Cargill and (Louis) Dreyfus.Between them, these firms account for 75-90% of the global grain trade, according to some estimates. They provide the fertiliser for the soya, and here, as elsewhere, dominate the processing industry that divides the beans into oil for food manufacturing and protein meal for animal feed. When you reach the ports of Rosario and San Lorenzo-San Mart\u00edn, they are unmissable, however, with their dozens of crushing plants, biodiesel refineries, grain terminals and elevators towering above the river.This is where about 55m tonnes of soya a year, worth $24bn (\u00a314.7bn), starts a journey through the docks to the importers \u2013 China, India and Europe.And this is now a key battleground in the fight over the global food system. For in South America, those who control the food chain, make money from it, and determine what we eat, are at the heart of a fierce political debate.The Argentinian authorities took the dramatic step of suspending all four big transnational traders from their export register this year, accusing them of tax evasion. Last month, it expelled Bunge from the register altogether.In an exclusive interview with the Guardian last month, Ricardo Echegaray, head of the Argentinian revenue service (Afip), detailed the charges against them. The companies have all denied the allegations and said they would defend themselves vigorously.The industrial soya complex arrived in Argentina from North America with a bang when the government approved the planting of genetically modified crops for the first time in 1996. Since then soya production has gone from about 6m hectares to 17m ha, and 60% of productive land is now given over to the monocrop.Many of the beef cattle have been squeezed into US-style feed-lots to be fattened on grain instead of grass, and 2.5m ha of woods have been lost.But soya has turned Argentina into a global agricultural powerhouse alongside Brazil. These two countries are, with the US, the largest exporters of soya in the world. Without them, there would have been no cheap factory chicken and no global livestock revolution.Soya planted on top of soya, with no pause to till the soil, has helped pay farm debts since Argentina's financial collapse in 2001. But according to Echegaray, the transnational traders are exporting not just the soya but much of their vast profits out of Argentina.Until 2007, he said, Bunge paid about $100m in corporate income tax in Argentina a year. \"Then it decided to set up an office in the tax-free zone of Uruguay's [capital] Montevideo. From that date, it suddenly declared no gains in Argentina. We cross-checked with Uruguay and we found they had not exported anything from Montevideo and had almost no staff there,\" he said.Echegaray, who is closely allied to Kirchner, said he had evidence that all four companies had submitted false declarations of sales and routed profits through tax havens or their headquarters in contravention of Argentinian tax law. In addition, he said, they had declared excessive costs in Argentina to reduce taxable profits there. He also accused them of using phantom companies, on occasion, to buy grain.\"These companies have descended into criminality,\" Echegaray said. \"The agro-exporters have extracted the most profit from the economy here in recent years, and our policy is that those who gain most should pay most. We have noticed the companies with the biggest sales show the least profits here. But all the work is done here. The soil is Argentinian, the harvest is done with Argentinian machinery by Argentinians, it is transported on Argentinian roads, through Argentinian ports. It uses Argentinian services and resources \u2013 so why are all the gains made in Argentina appearing on paper in other countries?\"The neoliberal consensus of the last two-and-a-half decades, in which emerging economics have been encouraged to open up their agricultural markets and export raw materials while the US and EU have maintained their $250bn-a-year farming subsidies, is under powerful challenge in South America.Leftwing governments, including Kirchner's in Argentina, are reclaiming food sovereignty and a greater share of the profits. Part of that has involved taking on the big concentrations of corporate power that characterise many parts of the global food system \u2013 the \"untouchables\", as one Argentinian official described them.The grain traders reject the government's tax charges.Cargill said: \"All the allegations made about Cargill are false. Cargill complies with all Argentine tax and customs regulations. We are vigorously defending various tax and customs audits and litigation. A recent example is a criminal case involving a former Cargill Argentina president and former Cargill Uruguay branch manager, who were unfairly indicted in a criminal case filed by Argentine tax authorities. That indictment was overturned in February 2011 by a court of appeal. Last week, the lower court dismissed the charges against both former Cargill employees.\"Afip said it had been granted an appeal against the dismissal this week and other charges remained to be heard.Bunge was adamant that it had broken no laws or tax rules, saying: \"We believe that we have done nothing wrong and that our past tax payments are complete. This is an issue that is not unique to Bunge, or even our industry. We will continue to take the appropriate legal steps to defend ourselves.\"ADM said it conducted \"business in accordance with the laws, including those governing tax obligations, in the countries where we operate\". We are co-operating with Afip to successfully resolve this situation.The trade association that represents the grain exporters in Argentina confirmed that Dreyfus also denied the charges.Eduardo Barcesat, the constitutional lawyer who is helping the government draft legislation to restrict foreign ownership of land in Argentina, said the tax moves were a political decision. \"The US big traders control most of the storage and the price,\" he said. \"This is a move to put things in order: no more cheating. Argentina is not getting enough of the value of its resources. We are colonised and we have to be free.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 6 July 2011. The original said that since 1996 soya production has gone from 1m hectares (2.4m acres) to 17m ha. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Food security", "Global development", "Argentina", "Food & drink industry", "Food", "Environment", "World news", "Farming", "Business"], "title": "Global food crisis: Argentina in battle with multinational grain giants | Felicity Lawrence in Buenos Aires"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:26:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is to consider granting a special pension to writers on the grounds that they generate \"social richness\" but often end up impoverished.The lower house of congress will study a proposal presented on Tuesday that would give published authors a monthly stipend of \u00a3565, well above the state minimum pension.The idea, inspired by similar initiatives in France and Spain, would offer the pension to those who are aged over 65 and have published at least five books or invested more than 20 years in \"literary creation\".\"Writers support the general culture of a community. They are individual creators who generate a sort of social richness that is difficult to quantify,\" Carlos Heller, a deputy from the socialist party who sponsored the initiative, told the BBC.Some analysts said the proposal, coming from a party which supports the president, Cristina Kirchner, appeared linked to her expected run for a second term in October's election. Recent populist measures include sending trucks with cheaply priced meat to poor neighbourhoods.Mario Goloboff, a writer and university professor, said the pension would remedy a cultural anomaly. \"The state grants prestige to intellectuals but that isn't payment.\" He said hundreds of Argentine writers dedicated their lives to literary output only to struggle financially in old age, and \"they deserve a pension\".Graciela Araoz, head of the Argentine Writers' Society, said the law would enable elderly authors \"to live with dignity for the rest of their lives\".The city of Buenos Aires, proud of a national literary tradition which boasts Roberto Arlt, Julio Cort\u00e1zar and Jorge Luis Borges, approved a similar proposal in 2006 which granted a monthly pension of almost \u00a3400.Of around 100 applicants to date 72 have been approved, a low number which should calm those worried about the fiscal implications of the scheme going national, Victor Redondo, a poet and member of the Argentine Writers' Society, told the BBC.\"It is not easy to publish five books in Argentina. They have to be registered with ISBN numbers and published by publishing houses. A commission of legislators, academics and writers would judge whether an applicant had invested more than 20 years in literary creation and weed out those whose books were self-published.Jorge Boccanera, one of the dozens of published writers in congress, welcomed the proposed legislation, telling the newspaper Clarin it would boost \"imagination and the comprehension of the world\". Vicente Battista, another author and member of congress, was even more lyrical, saying congress had a piece of \"utopia\" in its hands.Argentines consider their country the literary capital of South America and like to name streets after famous authors. The number of titles published annually has more than doubled in the past decade.Argentine fiction is known for cerebral plots and philosophising but a new generation of writers has embraced topics such as sex, the internet and Dan Brown-style stories.The pension proposal comes in the middle of the Buenos Aires book fair, one of the world's biggest literary expos. Some ministers and pro-government intellectuals criticised an invitation to Mario Vargas Llosa because of his criticisms of leftwing governments in Latin America, including Kirchner's.The president dampened the row by saying the Nobel laureate had every right to attend, earning thanks from the Peruvian novelist in his speech which opened the fair.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Books", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Argentina considers paying writers a pension"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:04:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The world's four largest grain traders, responsible for the vast majority of global corn, soya and wheat trading and processing, have been accused of large-scale tax evasion in a landmark series of cases being brought against them by the Argentinian government.In an interview with the Guardian, Ricardo Echegaray, the head of Afip, the country's revenue and customs service, has given a detailed account of the charges his department is bringing against ADM, Bunge, Cargill and Dreyfus.\"These companies have gone into criminality,\" Echegaray said. \"2008 was when agricultural commodities prices spiked and was the best year for them in prices, yet we could see that the companies with the biggest sales showed very little profit in this country.\"The Guardian has learned from separate sources that Afip is seeking to claim\u00a0$476m (\u00a3290m) for what it says are unpaid tax and duties from Bunge, $252m from Cargill and $140m from Dreyfus. The companies have all denied all the allegations and have said they will defend themselves vigorously.With the global food system and who controls it under intense scrutiny in recent weeks, thanks to record prices, the legal battle between Afip and the \"ABCD four\", as they are known, has taken on heightened significance.Oxfam, in a report earlier this week, warned of spiralling prices and a huge increase in global hunger over the next two decades, and said that corporate concentration in the global food trade was a structural flaw in the system.Echegaray said he had begun investigating Argentina's large business taxpayers towards the end of 2008, cross-checking information given to his authorities with that from other countries where their exports were destined, by making use of tax information exchange treaties \u2013 some of which have been newly signed. He also cross-checked declarations made to Argentinian customs with corporate income tax returns.He said he had evidence from his detailed inquiry that all four traders had submitted false declarations of sales and routed profits through tax havens or their headquarters, in contravention of Argentinian tax law.He also alleged they had on occasion used phantom firms to buy grain. He further alleged that they had inflated costs in Argentina to reduce taxable profits or claim tax credits there.The Afip inquiry has focused on the traders' sales to Uruguay, among other low-tax jurisdictions.Echegaray said Bunge had set up an office in the tax-free zone of Montevideo through which it began routing its exports after 2007, from which point it declared no gains in Argentina. He alleged his checks had revealed that Bunge employed only\u00a0a handful of people in Uruguay's capital, and that it had no real imports or exports from that office other than small items for those staff. Bunge was expelled from the Argentine exporters' register last week.Bunge denied the allegations absolutely and was adamant it had broken no laws or tax rules. \"We believe that we have done nothing wrong and that our past tax payments are complete. This is an issue that is not unique to Bunge, or even our industry. We will continue to take the appropriate legal steps to defend ourselves,\" it said in a statement.Echegaray alleged that Cargill had also used Uruguay and Swiss subsidiaries to evade taxes in Argentina. Cargill, ADM and Dreyfus were suspended from the exporters' register by the government earlier this year as a result of the investigation.Cargill said: \"All the allegations made about Cargill are false. Cargill complies with all Argentine tax and customs regulations. We are vigorously defending various tax and customs audits and litigation.\"ADM responded that it \"conducts business in accordance with the laws, including those governing tax obligations, in the countries where we operate. We are cooperating with Afip to successfully resolve this situation.\"Dreyfus declined to comment, but according to Ciara, the grain exporters' trade association in Argentina, it too denies all the charges.Ciara's president, Alberto Rodriguez, described the government's claims of tax evasion as political posturing.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Argentina", "Food & drink industry", "Food", "Food security", "Farming", "Uruguay", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina accuses world's largest grain traders of huge tax evasion"},{"date": "2011-06-01T12:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The attraction to the Chinese of access to an area of land in Patagonia larger than Cornwall is obvious. As China's economy grows and its population becomes more urbanised, diets are changing rapidly. People are eating more industrially produced meat and dairy products, and buying more processed foods.Soya is the feedstock for this revolution, but demand for it can no longer be met within China. So the Chinese state-owned agribusiness company Beidahuang has joined the global scramble for land and water that has accelerated since food prices spiked in 2008.Last year it was confirmed that the company had signed an agreement, with the government of Patagonia's R\u00edo Negro province, which provides the framework for it to acquire up to 320,000 hectares (790,000 acres) of privately owned farmland, along with irrigation rights and a concession on the San Antonio port.Details of the deal, alleged to have been kept quiet, have been emerging in recent weeks as Chinese technicians have started work.Beidahuang has also reported a 2008 deal on 200,000 ha in the Philippines, and says it plans to buy palm oil plantations and grain terminals this year as it pursues the Chinese government's policy of securing food supply lines from abroad.Beidahuang, based in the north-eastern province of Heilongjiang, is the leading soya producer in China and one of the country's five largest soya processors. It also raises more than 600,000 cows, 1.3m pigs and more than 6m chickens at any one time.The company believes its expertise in large-scale farming can be transferred to Argentina, according to Juan Manuel Accatino, the region's deputy secretary for agriculture in R\u00edo Negro, who was close to the deal. The arrangement made good economic sense, Accatino said. \"We can foresee global shortages of land, water and energy, and R\u00edo Negro can offer all three.\"Argentinian environmental groups and constitutional experts are outraged. Eduardo Barcesat is a top constitutional lawyer who has been helping the federal government of the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, draft legislation that would restrict foreign ownership of Argentinian land. The laws would also provide, for the first time, a full register of all landholding so that authorities can keep track of who owns what.\"Chinese and Indian people have been coming to Argentina over the last five years and would be happy to buy all our land, whatever the price. American businesses have been buying access to our water,\" Barcesat said. \"We need our own people to eat well first, and after that we can feed the rest of the world. We want more small and middle-sized owners, we don't like the excessive concentration, and we want farmers who will be careful with the land, not exploit it.\"Research from the International Land Coalition, and Oxfam Novib, the Netherlands affiliate of Oxfam International, has identified more than 1,200 international land deals covering more than 80m hectares since 2000 \u2013 the vast majority of them after 2007. More than 60% of the land targeted was in Africa.The R\u00edo Negro region is famous for its fruit orchards, which produce 70% of the country's apples and pears, exports eaten in northern Europe when the fruit season in that continent ends.Environmentalists in R\u00edo Negro say the Chinese arrival will mean heavy use of agrochemicals, ecological degradation and severe strain on the region's water resources. Some of the land in question is virgin forest that would be deforested.Dams have already cut the flow of the Negro river, they say, and Chinese plans to invest $20m (\u00a312m) immediately to build irrigation infrastructure would strain resources further. The campaigners say that since soya cultivation is highly mechanised it will prompt unemployment in the area, as it has elsewhere in the country where many rural communities have seen an increase in deep poverty as jobs are lost.Elvio Mendioroz, president of U\u00f1opat\u00fan, an agro-ecoclogical group that opposes the Chinese deal, said the agreement had been kept secret. \"China has run out of land to feed its people, and is suffering drought and soil erosion, so they come here.\"But it will create the same problems for us. There has been no consultation, yet it's already signed.\"Accatino thinks the deal has been misunderstood. R\u00edo Negro's provincial government was merely acting as a facilitator for the Chinese, he said, who would have to negotiate with the private owners of land to buy sections. The port concession, reported as being for 50 years, would depend on an evaluation of its feasibility.Accatino said: \"We will take into account the environmental concern about further expansion of soya and dependency of this monoculture. We would never endanger the Negro river.\"", "tags": ["Global development", "Food security", "China", "Argentina", "World news", "Farming", "Environment", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Global food crisis: China land deal causes unease in Argentina | Felicity Lawrence"},{"date": "2011-06-01T17:59:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Pampas are just as the old geography textbooks described them: vast flat plains stretching to distant horizons, white heads of tall grasses catching the autumn light. A great empty road ploughs a furrow from Buenos Aires through mile upon mile of fertile lands towards the ports on the great South American waterway, the Paran\u00e1 river.But missing from much of the Pampas now are the Argentinian beef cattle that used to be synonymous with this region that makes up one of the world's most expansive grazing lands.The way-markers today are grain silos, agricultural hangars for harvesting machines, and banner adverts across nearly every field for agrochemicals and genetically modified soya seed.Occasionally, the green and orange logo of Monsanto's Roundup glyphosphate herbicide gives way to an election poster for the Per\u00f3nist president, Cristina Kirchner, or to a rival chemical or seed company's billboard. But there's no question who dominates the landscape here.Less visible at first, and strangely unfamiliar to consumers in the UK, are the big four transnational exporters that dominate the other half of the soya complex, the so-called ABCD group of companies: ADM, Bunge, Cargill and (Louis) Dreyfus.Between them, these firms account for 75-90% of the global grain trade, according to some estimates. They provide the fertiliser for the soya, and here, as elsewhere, dominate the processing industry that divides the beans into oil for food manufacturing and protein meal for animal feed. When you reach the ports of Rosario and San Lorenzo-San Mart\u00edn, they are unmissable, however, with their dozens of crushing plants, biodiesel refineries, grain terminals and elevators towering above the river.This is where about 55m tonnes of soya a year, worth $24bn (\u00a314.7bn), starts a journey through the docks to the importers \u2013 China, India and Europe.And this is now a key battleground in the fight over the global food system. For in South America, those who control the food chain, make money from it, and determine what we eat, are at the heart of a fierce political debate.The Argentinian authorities took the dramatic step of suspending all four big transnational traders from their export register this year, accusing them of tax evasion. Last month, it expelled Bunge from the register altogether.In an exclusive interview with the Guardian last month, Ricardo Echegaray, head of the Argentinian revenue service (Afip), detailed the charges against them. The companies have all denied the allegations and said they would defend themselves vigorously.The industrial soya complex arrived in Argentina from North America with a bang when the government approved the planting of genetically modified crops for the first time in 1996. Since then soya production has gone from about 6m hectares to 17m ha, and 60% of productive land is now given over to the monocrop.Many of the beef cattle have been squeezed into US-style feed-lots to be fattened on grain instead of grass, and 2.5m ha of woods have been lost.But soya has turned Argentina into a global agricultural powerhouse alongside Brazil. These two countries are, with the US, the largest exporters of soya in the world. Without them, there would have been no cheap factory chicken and no global livestock revolution.Soya planted on top of soya, with no pause to till the soil, has helped pay farm debts since Argentina's financial collapse in 2001. But according to Echegaray, the transnational traders are exporting not just the soya but much of their vast profits out of Argentina.Until 2007, he said, Bunge paid about $100m in corporate income tax in Argentina a year. \"Then it decided to set up an office in the tax-free zone of Uruguay's [capital] Montevideo. From that date, it suddenly declared no gains in Argentina. We cross-checked with Uruguay and we found they had not exported anything from Montevideo and had almost no staff there,\" he said.Echegaray, who is closely allied to Kirchner, said he had evidence that all four companies had submitted false declarations of sales and routed profits through tax havens or their headquarters in contravention of Argentinian tax law. In addition, he said, they had declared excessive costs in Argentina to reduce taxable profits there. He also accused them of using phantom companies, on occasion, to buy grain.\"These companies have descended into criminality,\" Echegaray said. \"The agro-exporters have extracted the most profit from the economy here in recent years, and our policy is that those who gain most should pay most. We have noticed the companies with the biggest sales show the least profits here. But all the work is done here. The soil is Argentinian, the harvest is done with Argentinian machinery by Argentinians, it is transported on Argentinian roads, through Argentinian ports. It uses Argentinian services and resources \u2013 so why are all the gains made in Argentina appearing on paper in other countries?\"The neoliberal consensus of the last two-and-a-half decades, in which emerging economics have been encouraged to open up their agricultural markets and export raw materials while the US and EU have maintained their $250bn-a-year farming subsidies, is under powerful challenge in South America.Leftwing governments, including Kirchner's in Argentina, are reclaiming food sovereignty and a greater share of the profits. Part of that has involved taking on the big concentrations of corporate power that characterise many parts of the global food system \u2013 the \"untouchables\", as one Argentinian official described them.The grain traders reject the government's tax charges.Cargill said: \"All the allegations made about Cargill are false. Cargill complies with all Argentine tax and customs regulations. We are vigorously defending various tax and customs audits and litigation. A recent example is a criminal case involving a former Cargill Argentina president and former Cargill Uruguay branch manager, who were unfairly indicted in a criminal case filed by Argentine tax authorities. That indictment was overturned in February 2011 by a court of appeal. Last week, the lower court dismissed the charges against both former Cargill employees.\"Afip said it had been granted an appeal against the dismissal this week and other charges remained to be heard.Bunge was adamant that it had broken no laws or tax rules, saying: \"We believe that we have done nothing wrong and that our past tax payments are complete. This is an issue that is not unique to Bunge, or even our industry. We will continue to take the appropriate legal steps to defend ourselves.\"ADM said it conducted \"business in accordance with the laws, including those governing tax obligations, in the countries where we operate\". We are co-operating with Afip to successfully resolve this situation.The trade association that represents the grain exporters in Argentina confirmed that Dreyfus also denied the charges.Eduardo Barcesat, the constitutional lawyer who is helping the government draft legislation to restrict foreign ownership of land in Argentina, said the tax moves were a political decision. \"The US big traders control most of the storage and the price,\" he said. \"This is a move to put things in order: no more cheating. Argentina is not getting enough of the value of its resources. We are colonised and we have to be free.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 6 July 2011. The original said that since 1996 soya production has gone from 1m hectares (2.4m acres) to 17m ha. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Food security", "Global development", "Argentina", "Food & drink industry", "Food", "Environment", "World news", "Farming", "Business"], "title": "Global food crisis: Argentina in battle with multinational grain giants | Felicity Lawrence in Buenos Aires"},{"date": "2011-06-04T23:09:17Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after a volcano which has been dormant for decades started erupting in southern Chile.Large columns of smoke reached more than six miles from the crater of the Puyehue volcano, which lies about 500 miles south of the capital, Santiago.Winds fanned the ash towards neighbouring Argentina over the skies in the ski resort city of San Carlos de Bariloche, which caused the local airport to close.The governor of Chile's Los Rios region said fire could be seen in the volcano's crater and smoke was billowing into the sky.The eruption prompted authorities to shut a heavily travelled border crossing with Argentina, but there have been no reports of injuries.The Chilean government said it was evacuating 3,500 people from the surrounding area as a precaution.Authorities put the area around the volcano on alert after a flurry of earthquakes. The National Emergency Office says it has recorded an average of 230 tremors an hour.\"The Cordon Caulle (volcanic range) has entered an eruptive process, with an explosion resulting in a 10-kilometre-high gas column,\" state emergency office ONEMI said.The chain of Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanos \u2013 of which there are four \u2013 last saw a major eruption in 1960.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Puyehue volcano in Chile erupts, prompting mass evacuation"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:26:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is to consider granting a special pension to writers on the grounds that they generate \"social richness\" but often end up impoverished.The lower house of congress will study a proposal presented on Tuesday that would give published authors a monthly stipend of \u00a3565, well above the state minimum pension.The idea, inspired by similar initiatives in France and Spain, would offer the pension to those who are aged over 65 and have published at least five books or invested more than 20 years in \"literary creation\".\"Writers support the general culture of a community. They are individual creators who generate a sort of social richness that is difficult to quantify,\" Carlos Heller, a deputy from the socialist party who sponsored the initiative, told the BBC.Some analysts said the proposal, coming from a party which supports the president, Cristina Kirchner, appeared linked to her expected run for a second term in October's election. Recent populist measures include sending trucks with cheaply priced meat to poor neighbourhoods.Mario Goloboff, a writer and university professor, said the pension would remedy a cultural anomaly. \"The state grants prestige to intellectuals but that isn't payment.\" He said hundreds of Argentine writers dedicated their lives to literary output only to struggle financially in old age, and \"they deserve a pension\".Graciela Araoz, head of the Argentine Writers' Society, said the law would enable elderly authors \"to live with dignity for the rest of their lives\".The city of Buenos Aires, proud of a national literary tradition which boasts Roberto Arlt, Julio Cort\u00e1zar and Jorge Luis Borges, approved a similar proposal in 2006 which granted a monthly pension of almost \u00a3400.Of around 100 applicants to date 72 have been approved, a low number which should calm those worried about the fiscal implications of the scheme going national, Victor Redondo, a poet and member of the Argentine Writers' Society, told the BBC.\"It is not easy to publish five books in Argentina. They have to be registered with ISBN numbers and published by publishing houses. A commission of legislators, academics and writers would judge whether an applicant had invested more than 20 years in literary creation and weed out those whose books were self-published.Jorge Boccanera, one of the dozens of published writers in congress, welcomed the proposed legislation, telling the newspaper Clarin it would boost \"imagination and the comprehension of the world\". Vicente Battista, another author and member of congress, was even more lyrical, saying congress had a piece of \"utopia\" in its hands.Argentines consider their country the literary capital of South America and like to name streets after famous authors. The number of titles published annually has more than doubled in the past decade.Argentine fiction is known for cerebral plots and philosophising but a new generation of writers has embraced topics such as sex, the internet and Dan Brown-style stories.The pension proposal comes in the middle of the Buenos Aires book fair, one of the world's biggest literary expos. Some ministers and pro-government intellectuals criticised an invitation to Mario Vargas Llosa because of his criticisms of leftwing governments in Latin America, including Kirchner's.The president dampened the row by saying the Nobel laureate had every right to attend, earning thanks from the Peruvian novelist in his speech which opened the fair.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Books", "Culture", "World news"], "title": "Argentina considers paying writers a pension"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:04:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The world's four largest grain traders, responsible for the vast majority of global corn, soya and wheat trading and processing, have been accused of large-scale tax evasion in a landmark series of cases being brought against them by the Argentinian government.In an interview with the Guardian, Ricardo Echegaray, the head of Afip, the country's revenue and customs service, has given a detailed account of the charges his department is bringing against ADM, Bunge, Cargill and Dreyfus.\"These companies have gone into criminality,\" Echegaray said. \"2008 was when agricultural commodities prices spiked and was the best year for them in prices, yet we could see that the companies with the biggest sales showed very little profit in this country.\"The Guardian has learned from separate sources that Afip is seeking to claim\u00a0$476m (\u00a3290m) for what it says are unpaid tax and duties from Bunge, $252m from Cargill and $140m from Dreyfus. The companies have all denied all the allegations and have said they will defend themselves vigorously.With the global food system and who controls it under intense scrutiny in recent weeks, thanks to record prices, the legal battle between Afip and the \"ABCD four\", as they are known, has taken on heightened significance.Oxfam, in a report earlier this week, warned of spiralling prices and a huge increase in global hunger over the next two decades, and said that corporate concentration in the global food trade was a structural flaw in the system.Echegaray said he had begun investigating Argentina's large business taxpayers towards the end of 2008, cross-checking information given to his authorities with that from other countries where their exports were destined, by making use of tax information exchange treaties \u2013 some of which have been newly signed. He also cross-checked declarations made to Argentinian customs with corporate income tax returns.He said he had evidence from his detailed inquiry that all four traders had submitted false declarations of sales and routed profits through tax havens or their headquarters, in contravention of Argentinian tax law.He also alleged they had on occasion used phantom firms to buy grain. He further alleged that they had inflated costs in Argentina to reduce taxable profits or claim tax credits there.The Afip inquiry has focused on the traders' sales to Uruguay, among other low-tax jurisdictions.Echegaray said Bunge had set up an office in the tax-free zone of Montevideo through which it began routing its exports after 2007, from which point it declared no gains in Argentina. He alleged his checks had revealed that Bunge employed only\u00a0a handful of people in Uruguay's capital, and that it had no real imports or exports from that office other than small items for those staff. Bunge was expelled from the Argentine exporters' register last week.Bunge denied the allegations absolutely and was adamant it had broken no laws or tax rules. \"We believe that we have done nothing wrong and that our past tax payments are complete. This is an issue that is not unique to Bunge, or even our industry. We will continue to take the appropriate legal steps to defend ourselves,\" it said in a statement.Echegaray alleged that Cargill had also used Uruguay and Swiss subsidiaries to evade taxes in Argentina. Cargill, ADM and Dreyfus were suspended from the exporters' register by the government earlier this year as a result of the investigation.Cargill said: \"All the allegations made about Cargill are false. Cargill complies with all Argentine tax and customs regulations. We are vigorously defending various tax and customs audits and litigation.\"ADM responded that it \"conducts business in accordance with the laws, including those governing tax obligations, in the countries where we operate. We are cooperating with Afip to successfully resolve this situation.\"Dreyfus declined to comment, but according to Ciara, the grain exporters' trade association in Argentina, it too denies all the charges.Ciara's president, Alberto Rodriguez, described the government's claims of tax evasion as political posturing.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Argentina", "Food & drink industry", "Food", "Food security", "Farming", "Uruguay", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina accuses world's largest grain traders of huge tax evasion"},{"date": "2011-06-01T12:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The attraction to the Chinese of access to an area of land in Patagonia larger than Cornwall is obvious. As China's economy grows and its population becomes more urbanised, diets are changing rapidly. People are eating more industrially produced meat and dairy products, and buying more processed foods.Soya is the feedstock for this revolution, but demand for it can no longer be met within China. So the Chinese state-owned agribusiness company Beidahuang has joined the global scramble for land and water that has accelerated since food prices spiked in 2008.Last year it was confirmed that the company had signed an agreement, with the government of Patagonia's R\u00edo Negro province, which provides the framework for it to acquire up to 320,000 hectares (790,000 acres) of privately owned farmland, along with irrigation rights and a concession on the San Antonio port.Details of the deal, alleged to have been kept quiet, have been emerging in recent weeks as Chinese technicians have started work.Beidahuang has also reported a 2008 deal on 200,000 ha in the Philippines, and says it plans to buy palm oil plantations and grain terminals this year as it pursues the Chinese government's policy of securing food supply lines from abroad.Beidahuang, based in the north-eastern province of Heilongjiang, is the leading soya producer in China and one of the country's five largest soya processors. It also raises more than 600,000 cows, 1.3m pigs and more than 6m chickens at any one time.The company believes its expertise in large-scale farming can be transferred to Argentina, according to Juan Manuel Accatino, the region's deputy secretary for agriculture in R\u00edo Negro, who was close to the deal. The arrangement made good economic sense, Accatino said. \"We can foresee global shortages of land, water and energy, and R\u00edo Negro can offer all three.\"Argentinian environmental groups and constitutional experts are outraged. Eduardo Barcesat is a top constitutional lawyer who has been helping the federal government of the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, draft legislation that would restrict foreign ownership of Argentinian land. The laws would also provide, for the first time, a full register of all landholding so that authorities can keep track of who owns what.\"Chinese and Indian people have been coming to Argentina over the last five years and would be happy to buy all our land, whatever the price. American businesses have been buying access to our water,\" Barcesat said. \"We need our own people to eat well first, and after that we can feed the rest of the world. We want more small and middle-sized owners, we don't like the excessive concentration, and we want farmers who will be careful with the land, not exploit it.\"Research from the International Land Coalition, and Oxfam Novib, the Netherlands affiliate of Oxfam International, has identified more than 1,200 international land deals covering more than 80m hectares since 2000 \u2013 the vast majority of them after 2007. More than 60% of the land targeted was in Africa.The R\u00edo Negro region is famous for its fruit orchards, which produce 70% of the country's apples and pears, exports eaten in northern Europe when the fruit season in that continent ends.Environmentalists in R\u00edo Negro say the Chinese arrival will mean heavy use of agrochemicals, ecological degradation and severe strain on the region's water resources. Some of the land in question is virgin forest that would be deforested.Dams have already cut the flow of the Negro river, they say, and Chinese plans to invest $20m (\u00a312m) immediately to build irrigation infrastructure would strain resources further. The campaigners say that since soya cultivation is highly mechanised it will prompt unemployment in the area, as it has elsewhere in the country where many rural communities have seen an increase in deep poverty as jobs are lost.Elvio Mendioroz, president of U\u00f1opat\u00fan, an agro-ecoclogical group that opposes the Chinese deal, said the agreement had been kept secret. \"China has run out of land to feed its people, and is suffering drought and soil erosion, so they come here.\"But it will create the same problems for us. There has been no consultation, yet it's already signed.\"Accatino thinks the deal has been misunderstood. R\u00edo Negro's provincial government was merely acting as a facilitator for the Chinese, he said, who would have to negotiate with the private owners of land to buy sections. The port concession, reported as being for 50 years, would depend on an evaluation of its feasibility.Accatino said: \"We will take into account the environmental concern about further expansion of soya and dependency of this monoculture. We would never endanger the Negro river.\"", "tags": ["Global development", "Food security", "China", "Argentina", "World news", "Farming", "Environment", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Global food crisis: China land deal causes unease in Argentina | Felicity Lawrence"},{"date": "2011-06-01T17:59:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Pampas are just as the old geography textbooks described them: vast flat plains stretching to distant horizons, white heads of tall grasses catching the autumn light. A great empty road ploughs a furrow from Buenos Aires through mile upon mile of fertile lands towards the ports on the great South American waterway, the Paran\u00e1 river.But missing from much of the Pampas now are the Argentinian beef cattle that used to be synonymous with this region that makes up one of the world's most expansive grazing lands.The way-markers today are grain silos, agricultural hangars for harvesting machines, and banner adverts across nearly every field for agrochemicals and genetically modified soya seed.Occasionally, the green and orange logo of Monsanto's Roundup glyphosphate herbicide gives way to an election poster for the Per\u00f3nist president, Cristina Kirchner, or to a rival chemical or seed company's billboard. But there's no question who dominates the landscape here.Less visible at first, and strangely unfamiliar to consumers in the UK, are the big four transnational exporters that dominate the other half of the soya complex, the so-called ABCD group of companies: ADM, Bunge, Cargill and (Louis) Dreyfus.Between them, these firms account for 75-90% of the global grain trade, according to some estimates. They provide the fertiliser for the soya, and here, as elsewhere, dominate the processing industry that divides the beans into oil for food manufacturing and protein meal for animal feed. When you reach the ports of Rosario and San Lorenzo-San Mart\u00edn, they are unmissable, however, with their dozens of crushing plants, biodiesel refineries, grain terminals and elevators towering above the river.This is where about 55m tonnes of soya a year, worth $24bn (\u00a314.7bn), starts a journey through the docks to the importers \u2013 China, India and Europe.And this is now a key battleground in the fight over the global food system. For in South America, those who control the food chain, make money from it, and determine what we eat, are at the heart of a fierce political debate.The Argentinian authorities took the dramatic step of suspending all four big transnational traders from their export register this year, accusing them of tax evasion. Last month, it expelled Bunge from the register altogether.In an exclusive interview with the Guardian last month, Ricardo Echegaray, head of the Argentinian revenue service (Afip), detailed the charges against them. The companies have all denied the allegations and said they would defend themselves vigorously.The industrial soya complex arrived in Argentina from North America with a bang when the government approved the planting of genetically modified crops for the first time in 1996. Since then soya production has gone from about 6m hectares to 17m ha, and 60% of productive land is now given over to the monocrop.Many of the beef cattle have been squeezed into US-style feed-lots to be fattened on grain instead of grass, and 2.5m ha of woods have been lost.But soya has turned Argentina into a global agricultural powerhouse alongside Brazil. These two countries are, with the US, the largest exporters of soya in the world. Without them, there would have been no cheap factory chicken and no global livestock revolution.Soya planted on top of soya, with no pause to till the soil, has helped pay farm debts since Argentina's financial collapse in 2001. But according to Echegaray, the transnational traders are exporting not just the soya but much of their vast profits out of Argentina.Until 2007, he said, Bunge paid about $100m in corporate income tax in Argentina a year. \"Then it decided to set up an office in the tax-free zone of Uruguay's [capital] Montevideo. From that date, it suddenly declared no gains in Argentina. We cross-checked with Uruguay and we found they had not exported anything from Montevideo and had almost no staff there,\" he said.Echegaray, who is closely allied to Kirchner, said he had evidence that all four companies had submitted false declarations of sales and routed profits through tax havens or their headquarters in contravention of Argentinian tax law. In addition, he said, they had declared excessive costs in Argentina to reduce taxable profits there. He also accused them of using phantom companies, on occasion, to buy grain.\"These companies have descended into criminality,\" Echegaray said. \"The agro-exporters have extracted the most profit from the economy here in recent years, and our policy is that those who gain most should pay most. We have noticed the companies with the biggest sales show the least profits here. But all the work is done here. The soil is Argentinian, the harvest is done with Argentinian machinery by Argentinians, it is transported on Argentinian roads, through Argentinian ports. It uses Argentinian services and resources \u2013 so why are all the gains made in Argentina appearing on paper in other countries?\"The neoliberal consensus of the last two-and-a-half decades, in which emerging economics have been encouraged to open up their agricultural markets and export raw materials while the US and EU have maintained their $250bn-a-year farming subsidies, is under powerful challenge in South America.Leftwing governments, including Kirchner's in Argentina, are reclaiming food sovereignty and a greater share of the profits. Part of that has involved taking on the big concentrations of corporate power that characterise many parts of the global food system \u2013 the \"untouchables\", as one Argentinian official described them.The grain traders reject the government's tax charges.Cargill said: \"All the allegations made about Cargill are false. Cargill complies with all Argentine tax and customs regulations. We are vigorously defending various tax and customs audits and litigation. A recent example is a criminal case involving a former Cargill Argentina president and former Cargill Uruguay branch manager, who were unfairly indicted in a criminal case filed by Argentine tax authorities. That indictment was overturned in February 2011 by a court of appeal. Last week, the lower court dismissed the charges against both former Cargill employees.\"Afip said it had been granted an appeal against the dismissal this week and other charges remained to be heard.Bunge was adamant that it had broken no laws or tax rules, saying: \"We believe that we have done nothing wrong and that our past tax payments are complete. This is an issue that is not unique to Bunge, or even our industry. We will continue to take the appropriate legal steps to defend ourselves.\"ADM said it conducted \"business in accordance with the laws, including those governing tax obligations, in the countries where we operate\". We are co-operating with Afip to successfully resolve this situation.The trade association that represents the grain exporters in Argentina confirmed that Dreyfus also denied the charges.Eduardo Barcesat, the constitutional lawyer who is helping the government draft legislation to restrict foreign ownership of land in Argentina, said the tax moves were a political decision. \"The US big traders control most of the storage and the price,\" he said. \"This is a move to put things in order: no more cheating. Argentina is not getting enough of the value of its resources. We are colonised and we have to be free.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 6 July 2011. The original said that since 1996 soya production has gone from 1m hectares (2.4m acres) to 17m ha. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Food security", "Global development", "Argentina", "Food & drink industry", "Food", "Environment", "World news", "Farming", "Business"], "title": "Global food crisis: Argentina in battle with multinational grain giants | Felicity Lawrence in Buenos Aires"},{"date": "2011-06-04T23:09:17Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after a volcano which has been dormant for decades started erupting in southern Chile.Large columns of smoke reached more than six miles from the crater of the Puyehue volcano, which lies about 500 miles south of the capital, Santiago.Winds fanned the ash towards neighbouring Argentina over the skies in the ski resort city of San Carlos de Bariloche, which caused the local airport to close.The governor of Chile's Los Rios region said fire could be seen in the volcano's crater and smoke was billowing into the sky.The eruption prompted authorities to shut a heavily travelled border crossing with Argentina, but there have been no reports of injuries.The Chilean government said it was evacuating 3,500 people from the surrounding area as a precaution.Authorities put the area around the volcano on alert after a flurry of earthquakes. The National Emergency Office says it has recorded an average of 230 tremors an hour.\"The Cordon Caulle (volcanic range) has entered an eruptive process, with an explosion resulting in a 10-kilometre-high gas column,\" state emergency office ONEMI said.The chain of Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanos \u2013 of which there are four \u2013 last saw a major eruption in 1960.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Puyehue volcano in Chile erupts, prompting mass evacuation"},{"date": "2011-06-07T17:50:34Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Hillary Clinton failed to make the transition, but former first ladies across Latin America are following in her footsteps and campaigning to become presidents, in what may become a fresh wave of female heads of state in the region.Former \"primeras damas\" in Guatemala, Honduras and Argentina have waded into traditionally macho Latino politics in the hope of staying in, or returning to, presidential palaces.Their ambitions have provoked excitement and controversy, with supporters acclaiming a breakthrough for women \u2013 and critics concerned at\u00a0the prospect of entrenched political\u00a0dynasties.In Guatemala, Sandra Torres divorced her husband, President Alvaro Colom, in order to run in September's election and circumvent a constitutional ban on relatives succeeding an incumbent. \"I am getting married to the people,\" she tells\u00a0rallies.Some first ladies are depicted as proxies for husbands constitutionally barred from running again - but not even her harshest critics accuse Torres, 56, of that. She was widely viewed as the dominant character in the marriage and built up a political base while heading the government's anti-poverty programmes.The Catholic church condemned the divorce, saying the institution of marriage was not negotiable, and election rivals called it electoral fraud. Otto Perez, a retired general who leads her in the polls, mockingly calls her \"se\u00f1orita\" rather than\u00a0\"se\u00f1ora\".In Honduras, Manuel Zelaya, a former president ousted in a coup and freshly returned from exile, has tipped his wife Xiomara Castro to succeed him.\"The one who is engaged in politics is the first lady, I'm just a simple citizen,\" he told a news\u00a0conference.The announcement delighted supporters who were frustrated that Zelaya is constitutionally barred from standing again. The former first lady hinted she was ready to run. \"Before the coup, I always thought that once the term finished, I would return to the house and dedicate myself to my family,\" she told AFP. \"But I have talked about it with my children and things have changed.\"Argentina's Cristina Kirchner, who succeeded her husband Nestor in 2007, is expected to win a landslide re-election in October thanks to a robust economy, a fractious opposition and sympathy over Nestor's death late last year.\"I'm not dying to be president, I already gave all I had to give,\" she said last month, suggesting she may not run again. But analysts said it was a ruse to build up \"clamour\". One senior ally said Cristina, as she is almost universally known, will confirm a re-election bid later this month.It is a remarkable comeback for a combative veteran written off as a lame duck just last year after losing control of congress and, it seemed, the\u00a0political\u00a0agenda.That so many first ladies were running for the presidency showed the hybrid nature of democracy in Latin America, said Michael Shifter, head of the Washington-based Inter-American Dialogue thinktank. \"Opportunities in the political realm are clearly opening up for women, which is very heartening. At the same time, the first lady option reveals the fragility of institutions and the temptation to perpetuate oneself in power though a circuitous path.\"The trend was not restricted to Latin America and was partly inspired by Hillary Clinton's 2008 bid for the Democratic nomination, said Shifter. \"The phenomenon is self-reinforcing and is bound to spread as 'success' stories appear, such as the case of Cristina [Kirchner] in Argentina.\"Women were kept largely on the sidelines of Latin American politics for centuries, not least by traditionalist leaders. Argentina broke the mould first in the form of Eva Peron, who was never president, but became a role model for first ladies by championing social programmes and mobilising support for her husband Juan's presidency until her\u00a0death in 1952.When Peron himself died in 1974 his third wife and vice-president, Isabel, was sworn in as his successor at Argentina's seat of government, the Casa Rosada. It was not a successful stint: she failed to control violent extremists from the left and right and lost power two years later. In 2007, she was charged with the disappearance of an activist in 1976, but\u00a0fended off extradition and remained in Spain. Several \"presidentas\" have made it to the top without riding their husbands' presidential coat-tails: Nicaragua's Violeta Chamorro, elected in 1990, Chile's Michelle Bachelet, elected in 2006, and Costa Rica's Laura Chinchilla and Brazil's Dilma Rousseff, both elected\u00a0last year.Former first ladies inherit political machines but also their husbands' enemies. In April, a revolt in the ruling party of the Dominican Republic's president, Leonel Fernandez, forced his wife Margarita Cedeno to abandon presidential ambitions.Peru's Keiko Fujimori \u2013 who became first lady in the 1990s after her father Alberto\u00a0divorced her mother \u2013 lost last Sunday's presidential election after failing to shake off memories of corruption and human rights abuses during her father's administration.\u2022 This article was amended on 8 June 2011. The original referred to Nestor Kirchner's death earlier this year. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Guatemala", "Honduras", "Argentina", "Gender", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "Americas"], "title": "Latin America's former first ladies bid to break macho presidential mould"},{"date": "2011-07-07T15:48:56Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina's president has banned classifed newspaper adverts by sex workers, in the latest episode of a long-running and acrimonous dispute with the country's opposition media.Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner said the measure represented \"a giant step forward in the defence of women\", although many of the ads feature transvestites and male escorts. The justice minister, Julio Alak, also announced plans to block internet sites advertising sexual services.The announcements came as a surprise in a country where prostitution is legal and where transvestites offer themselves openly in the Rosedal, a traditional city park in the select Palermo district of Buenos Aires, infuriating the high-class neighbours with luxury apartments overlooking the park.Political observers see the ban as the latest swipe by the president at Clar\u00edn, a mass-circulation paper that publishes some 200 sex ads daily.Announcing the ban, Kirchner, who is seeking re-election in the October elections, said it would put an end to the \"hefty profits\" some newspapers made from the ads.Kirchner and Clar\u00edn fell out three years ago when the newspaper sided with the nation's farmers during a long-running strike that eventually forced the president to back-pedal on an increase in agricultural taxes.Since then Clar\u00edn, which had been an unabashed supporter of the president, has focused on the many cases of corruption in her administration. Kirchner has responded by passing a media law that could force the media conglomerate to divest its cable and open-air television holdings.Free-speech advocates protested against the ban, enacted not by Congress but by a stroke of the presidential pen. \"It is unconstitutional because it affects freedom of expression and the exercise of a legal activity,\" said Martin Carranza Torres, a technology lawyer.The Argentine Association of Prostitutes also dismissed it as a \"magic solution\" that was unlikely to solve the real problem of sexual exploitation in Argentina. The ads \"in most cases represent legitimate work such as ours\", it said.", "tags": ["Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Argentina", "World news", "Prostitution", "Society", "Media"], "title": "Argentina president bans sex ads in newspapers"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "It was sticky and humid when dawn broke on 20 December 2001. The sound of shots could be heard behind us; the angry crowd protesting in the Plaza de Mayo began to move back. Then I saw him: that man in the blue trousers and Hawaiian shirt who fell on the steps of parliament. I knew he was dead. We started to retreat, pursued by the Infantry Guard Corps. Any of us could have ended up that way, with a bullet in the head. Yet we returned, despite the state of seige and the teargas and the bullets, until, later in the afternoon, President Fernando de la R\u00faa, the man who had ordered the repression, made his escape in a helicopter.The final tally was 34 dead, and the Republic of Argentina plunged into a crisis that led to five changes of President in a week. So what had happened to the most European country of Latin America, the one with the least extreme social inequalities, the first to eradicate tuberculosis and illiteracy and the one that had built a solid welfare state by the mid-1940s?The answer can perhaps be provided by Michel Camdessus, then head of the International Monetary Fund, who gave Argentinian President Carlos Menem the seat of honour at the fund's annual meeting in October 1998 as an example to be followed. And any parallel with present-day Europe's indignados and the IMF's repetition of self-serving advice is not pure coincidence. As it was then, so it is now. When the financial bubble bursts, it is not the bankers and their poltician supporters who suffer the consequences but the wage earners, the small savers and the unemployed.It is a curious paradox that Menem, the Argentine president most eulogised by the IMF, is also a Justicialist, that is a Peronist. He belongs to the party that created the welfare state in Argentina. As the Uruguay writer Eduardo Galeano put it to me, when Menem privatised all the state companies, \"the same ones who drafted the prologue were now writing the epilogue\".With the uncompromising style so typical of converts, Menem completed the devastating work begun by the post-Peron military dictatorship and was in turn succeeded in the task by Fernando de la R\u00faa, who drove the country into the abyss in his desire to maintain the artificial pegging of the peso to the dollar. Called \"convertibility\", this was applauded by the IMF but ultimately resulted in the flight abroad of 170 thousand million dollars (equivalent to the country's total foreign debt), the end of credit, the fall into default and \u2013 most serious of all \u2013 millions of people excluded from the market, marginalised, transformed into the wretched of the third millennium.The depression was so deep that the turnaround begun by N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who came to office in 2003, and continued by his wife, the current President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner can be seen as a significant contrast: growth of 9% almost every year since 2003 and a strong increase in consumption.Despite this, and the undoubted fact that the \"Kirchner model\" does not follow the recipes of the IMF in an orthodox way, Argentina is very far from the paradise that is painted by the official propaganda. The country might see those demonstrations return again.Growth does not automatically mean\u00a0development. When Kircher speaks of the creation of five million jobs and presents this as the most prosperous age in Argentine history, she fails to mention a few fundamental details. First, the growth in GDP is closely tied to the increase in commodities, particularly soya and maize, for use as biofuels. This model impoverishes the soil, fosters the concentration of land ownership and limits the diversity of agro-industrial options that the countryside could have. As if this were not enough, it depends on market factors that are unaffected by national decision-making. Second, the huge resources generated by this international \"tail wind\" have not succeeded in putting an end to either the enormous social marginalisation that Argentina is still suffering or the political clientelism that this has brought about. Third, by lying shamelessly about the inflation rate (it is\u00a0said to be 8% annually when actually it touches 25% percent), the government is concealing the true level of poverty and priming a bomb that is threatening to explode in the near future.Furthermore, by opting for future development through mega-mining using cyanide (such as that by Barrick Gold in the Andes) and offshore exploitation in the Patagonian Sea, the government of Cristina Kirchner is taking Argentina back to the model of extraction of raw materials that held sway in colonial times. Which may explain an apparent contradiction: the under the table negotiations with the dangerous consultants of the IMF. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina is no paradise | Miguel Bonasso"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "It was sticky and humid when dawn broke on 20 December 2001. The sound of shots could be heard behind us; the angry crowd protesting in the Plaza de Mayo began to move back. Then I saw him: that man in the blue trousers and Hawaiian shirt who fell on the steps of parliament. I knew he was dead. We started to retreat, pursued by the Infantry Guard Corps. Any of us could have ended up that way, with a bullet in the head. Yet we returned, despite the state of seige and the teargas and the bullets, until, later in the afternoon, President Fernando de la R\u00faa, the man who had ordered the repression, made his escape in a helicopter.The final tally was 34 dead, and the Republic of Argentina plunged into a crisis that led to five changes of President in a week. So what had happened to the most European country of Latin America, the one with the least extreme social inequalities, the first to eradicate tuberculosis and illiteracy and the one that had built a solid welfare state by the mid-1940s?The answer can perhaps be provided by Michel Camdessus, then head of the International Monetary Fund, who gave Argentinian President Carlos Menem the seat of honour at the fund's annual meeting in October 1998 as an example to be followed. And any parallel with present-day Europe's indignados and the IMF's repetition of self-serving advice is not pure coincidence. As it was then, so it is now. When the financial bubble bursts, it is not the bankers and their poltician supporters who suffer the consequences but the wage earners, the small savers and the unemployed.It is a curious paradox that Menem, the Argentine president most eulogised by the IMF, is also a Justicialist, that is a Peronist. He belongs to the party that created the welfare state in Argentina. As the Uruguay writer Eduardo Galeano put it to me, when Menem privatised all the state companies, \"the same ones who drafted the prologue were now writing the epilogue\".With the uncompromising style so typical of converts, Menem completed the devastating work begun by the post-Peron military dictatorship and was in turn succeeded in the task by Fernando de la R\u00faa, who drove the country into the abyss in his desire to maintain the artificial pegging of the peso to the dollar. Called \"convertibility\", this was applauded by the IMF but ultimately resulted in the flight abroad of 170 thousand million dollars (equivalent to the country's total foreign debt), the end of credit, the fall into default and \u2013 most serious of all \u2013 millions of people excluded from the market, marginalised, transformed into the wretched of the third millennium.The depression was so deep that the turnaround begun by N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who came to office in 2003, and continued by his wife, the current President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner can be seen as a significant contrast: growth of 9% almost every year since 2003 and a strong increase in consumption.Despite this, and the undoubted fact that the \"Kirchner model\" does not follow the recipes of the IMF in an orthodox way, Argentina is very far from the paradise that is painted by the official propaganda. The country might see those demonstrations return again.Growth does not automatically mean\u00a0development. When Kircher speaks of the creation of five million jobs and presents this as the most prosperous age in Argentine history, she fails to mention a few fundamental details. First, the growth in GDP is closely tied to the increase in commodities, particularly soya and maize, for use as biofuels. This model impoverishes the soil, fosters the concentration of land ownership and limits the diversity of agro-industrial options that the countryside could have. As if this were not enough, it depends on market factors that are unaffected by national decision-making. Second, the huge resources generated by this international \"tail wind\" have not succeeded in putting an end to either the enormous social marginalisation that Argentina is still suffering or the political clientelism that this has brought about. Third, by lying shamelessly about the inflation rate (it is\u00a0said to be 8% annually when actually it touches 25% percent), the government is concealing the true level of poverty and priming a bomb that is threatening to explode in the near future.Furthermore, by opting for future development through mega-mining using cyanide (such as that by Barrick Gold in the Andes) and offshore exploitation in the Patagonian Sea, the government of Cristina Kirchner is taking Argentina back to the model of extraction of raw materials that held sway in colonial times. Which may explain an apparent contradiction: the under the table negotiations with the dangerous consultants of the IMF. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina is no paradise | Miguel Bonasso"},{"date": "2011-11-07T12:56:43Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After a month in Colombia, the tour returns with recommendations ranging from Jorge Isaacs's Maria, described by dande as \"One of the most notable works of the Romantic movement in Spanish literature\" to Tom\u00e1s Gonz\u00e1lez's La Luz Dif\u00edcil, a newly released novel which according to K \"Colombian Literature junkies are giving \u2026 outstanding reviews\".Along the way Daryl suggested Elena Garces's Colombian Women \"deserves to be read as an indicator of the contemporary situation of women in many other Latin American countries\", while Rafael Leal cited the \"reactionary\" philosopher Nicol\u00e1s G\u00f3mez D\u00e1vila, who apparently \"did not believe in translations and read everything in its original language\" \u2013 though his own works, consisting \"mostly of aphorisms\" are available in \"Polish, German, Italian and French\". For Leandro, whereas Gabriel Garc\u00eda M\u00e1rquez describes \"Latin-American reality\", Fernando Vallejo \"describes Colombian reality\" in particular, so that Colombians reading Vallejo feel \"pain, anger\" from descriptions which \"destroy our hearts\". Thanks for all these recommendations, especially the outpouring of love for Victor M Rosell\u00f3's East of the Orteguaza.This month the tour travels the length of South America and winds up in Argentina \u2013 straight into the meta-fictional labyrinth inhabited by Jorge Luis Borges. With his infinite libraries, fictional texts and rewritten novels, Borges carved out new territory for the short story, but after pausing to admire his convoluted charms, perhaps we can find a way out from his tangled fictional universe and discover where to start with the gaucho literature of the 19th century, or the realists who followed them. And what about literature under Per\u00f3n, and the great Argentinian authors of today?We're looking for books which capture something of Argentinian life, whether novels or plays, poetry or non-fiction, whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about voices from abroad who offer a fresh perspective. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 that's Argentina this month \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. I'm off to add a paean to Ficciones, and one of the best novels I've read in the last couple of years, Martin Kohan's Seconds Out, but don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next stop. Even if you haven't got a favourite Argentinian author on your shelf, your votes still count. Next stop Kenya?", "tags": ["Jorge Luis Borges", "Books", "Fiction", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Argentina"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "It was sticky and humid when dawn broke on 20 December 2001. The sound of shots could be heard behind us; the angry crowd protesting in the Plaza de Mayo began to move back. Then I saw him: that man in the blue trousers and Hawaiian shirt who fell on the steps of parliament. I knew he was dead. We started to retreat, pursued by the Infantry Guard Corps. Any of us could have ended up that way, with a bullet in the head. Yet we returned, despite the state of seige and the teargas and the bullets, until, later in the afternoon, President Fernando de la R\u00faa, the man who had ordered the repression, made his escape in a helicopter.The final tally was 34 dead, and the Republic of Argentina plunged into a crisis that led to five changes of President in a week. So what had happened to the most European country of Latin America, the one with the least extreme social inequalities, the first to eradicate tuberculosis and illiteracy and the one that had built a solid welfare state by the mid-1940s?The answer can perhaps be provided by Michel Camdessus, then head of the International Monetary Fund, who gave Argentinian President Carlos Menem the seat of honour at the fund's annual meeting in October 1998 as an example to be followed. And any parallel with present-day Europe's indignados and the IMF's repetition of self-serving advice is not pure coincidence. As it was then, so it is now. When the financial bubble bursts, it is not the bankers and their poltician supporters who suffer the consequences but the wage earners, the small savers and the unemployed.It is a curious paradox that Menem, the Argentine president most eulogised by the IMF, is also a Justicialist, that is a Peronist. He belongs to the party that created the welfare state in Argentina. As the Uruguay writer Eduardo Galeano put it to me, when Menem privatised all the state companies, \"the same ones who drafted the prologue were now writing the epilogue\".With the uncompromising style so typical of converts, Menem completed the devastating work begun by the post-Peron military dictatorship and was in turn succeeded in the task by Fernando de la R\u00faa, who drove the country into the abyss in his desire to maintain the artificial pegging of the peso to the dollar. Called \"convertibility\", this was applauded by the IMF but ultimately resulted in the flight abroad of 170 thousand million dollars (equivalent to the country's total foreign debt), the end of credit, the fall into default and \u2013 most serious of all \u2013 millions of people excluded from the market, marginalised, transformed into the wretched of the third millennium.The depression was so deep that the turnaround begun by N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who came to office in 2003, and continued by his wife, the current President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner can be seen as a significant contrast: growth of 9% almost every year since 2003 and a strong increase in consumption.Despite this, and the undoubted fact that the \"Kirchner model\" does not follow the recipes of the IMF in an orthodox way, Argentina is very far from the paradise that is painted by the official propaganda. The country might see those demonstrations return again.Growth does not automatically mean\u00a0development. When Kircher speaks of the creation of five million jobs and presents this as the most prosperous age in Argentine history, she fails to mention a few fundamental details. First, the growth in GDP is closely tied to the increase in commodities, particularly soya and maize, for use as biofuels. This model impoverishes the soil, fosters the concentration of land ownership and limits the diversity of agro-industrial options that the countryside could have. As if this were not enough, it depends on market factors that are unaffected by national decision-making. Second, the huge resources generated by this international \"tail wind\" have not succeeded in putting an end to either the enormous social marginalisation that Argentina is still suffering or the political clientelism that this has brought about. Third, by lying shamelessly about the inflation rate (it is\u00a0said to be 8% annually when actually it touches 25% percent), the government is concealing the true level of poverty and priming a bomb that is threatening to explode in the near future.Furthermore, by opting for future development through mega-mining using cyanide (such as that by Barrick Gold in the Andes) and offshore exploitation in the Patagonian Sea, the government of Cristina Kirchner is taking Argentina back to the model of extraction of raw materials that held sway in colonial times. Which may explain an apparent contradiction: the under the table negotiations with the dangerous consultants of the IMF. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina is no paradise | Miguel Bonasso"},{"date": "2011-11-07T12:56:43Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After a month in Colombia, the tour returns with recommendations ranging from Jorge Isaacs's Maria, described by dande as \"One of the most notable works of the Romantic movement in Spanish literature\" to Tom\u00e1s Gonz\u00e1lez's La Luz Dif\u00edcil, a newly released novel which according to K \"Colombian Literature junkies are giving \u2026 outstanding reviews\".Along the way Daryl suggested Elena Garces's Colombian Women \"deserves to be read as an indicator of the contemporary situation of women in many other Latin American countries\", while Rafael Leal cited the \"reactionary\" philosopher Nicol\u00e1s G\u00f3mez D\u00e1vila, who apparently \"did not believe in translations and read everything in its original language\" \u2013 though his own works, consisting \"mostly of aphorisms\" are available in \"Polish, German, Italian and French\". For Leandro, whereas Gabriel Garc\u00eda M\u00e1rquez describes \"Latin-American reality\", Fernando Vallejo \"describes Colombian reality\" in particular, so that Colombians reading Vallejo feel \"pain, anger\" from descriptions which \"destroy our hearts\". Thanks for all these recommendations, especially the outpouring of love for Victor M Rosell\u00f3's East of the Orteguaza.This month the tour travels the length of South America and winds up in Argentina \u2013 straight into the meta-fictional labyrinth inhabited by Jorge Luis Borges. With his infinite libraries, fictional texts and rewritten novels, Borges carved out new territory for the short story, but after pausing to admire his convoluted charms, perhaps we can find a way out from his tangled fictional universe and discover where to start with the gaucho literature of the 19th century, or the realists who followed them. And what about literature under Per\u00f3n, and the great Argentinian authors of today?We're looking for books which capture something of Argentinian life, whether novels or plays, poetry or non-fiction, whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about voices from abroad who offer a fresh perspective. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 that's Argentina this month \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. I'm off to add a paean to Ficciones, and one of the best novels I've read in the last couple of years, Martin Kohan's Seconds Out, but don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next stop. Even if you haven't got a favourite Argentinian author on your shelf, your votes still count. Next stop Kenya?", "tags": ["Jorge Luis Borges", "Books", "Fiction", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Argentina"},{"date": "2011-12-22T16:25:47Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the late 19th and early 20th centuries Brazil couldn't find enough migrants. Seeking to fuel the Sao Paulo coffee boom, authorities actively recruited impoverished Europeans and later Japanese citizens.Today migrating to Brazil is no longer so easy. Aside from marrying a Brazilian or having a Brazilian child \u2013 as did the great train robber Ronnie Biggs \u2013 several options exist for those hoping to relocate to South America's largest nation.Work visas are routinely issued to directors and high-level employees from foreign companies operating in Brazil. Over 50s, who can prove a monthly income of over $2,000, are issued with retirement visas.Another possibility is an \"investment visa\", granted by the work ministry to foreigners who commit to investing at least $50,000 in an existing Brazilian company or a start-up that will create at least 10 Brazilian jobs in five years.A number of European immigrants work in Brazil illegally, renewing 90-day tourist visas by leaving the country and returning. During a 2009 amnesty on illegal immigration around 2,400 Europeans legalised their status with the federal police.Unlike Brazil, Argentina has an open-doors policy, with immigrants from Europe particularly welcome. No specific skills or country quotas are in place. All an applicant needs is a letter from an employer or potential employer and a certificate of good conduct from the police of their country of origin.It is also possible to look for a job once in Argentina on a tourist visa. Europeans can travel to Argentina without a visa and are automatically given a free 90-day tourist visa upon arrival. After finding a job immigrants can go to the migrations department with a letter from their employer and a certificate of good conduct from their country of origin. Application requirements are fairly straightforward but the same cannot be said for Argentina's often nightmarish bureaucracy. It can take several months until a visa is actually issued.Migration to Australia is also not as easy as it once was. In the year to June 2011 there were 113,850 places for skilled migrants to Australia. The skilled occupation list determines which professions or trades can apply for unsponsored migration.As well as occupation, applicants are assessed on the basis of their age, qualifications, English language ability and employability. Australian employers can also sponsor potential migrants to fill vacancies in their businesses.Several government initiatives encourage migration to regional and low population growth areas of the country. A business skills visa allows business owners, senior executives or investors to apply for a temporary visa, and later for residency if requirements are satisfied.Canada's immigration programme was comprehensively revised in 2002, and now lists three main objectives of its immigration policy: reuniting families, contributing to economic development and protecting refugees.Family class migration allows foreign nationals to migrate to Canada under the sponsorship of close relatives (typically spouses and partners, parents, children or grandchildren) already permanently (and legally) residing in Canada.Options for economic migrants include applying from outside Canada on the basis of having skills and experience matching a number of specific \"in-demand\" categories identified by the Canadian government, or applying from within Canada for individuals with sufficient (typically two years) relevant Canadian work experience \u2013 for example through a temporary employment visa granted by a Canadian employer.Other avenues exist for business immigrants who intend to set up a business in Canada, or can invest a set sum (currently C$800,000, or \u00a3500,000) with the Canadian government for a period of five years, have a minimum net worth of C$1.6 million and can demonstrate they have business experience.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Argentina", "Americas", "Canada", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Argentina opens doors to migrants, but settling elsewhere is harder"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "It was sticky and humid when dawn broke on 20 December 2001. The sound of shots could be heard behind us; the angry crowd protesting in the Plaza de Mayo began to move back. Then I saw him: that man in the blue trousers and Hawaiian shirt who fell on the steps of parliament. I knew he was dead. We started to retreat, pursued by the Infantry Guard Corps. Any of us could have ended up that way, with a bullet in the head. Yet we returned, despite the state of seige and the teargas and the bullets, until, later in the afternoon, President Fernando de la R\u00faa, the man who had ordered the repression, made his escape in a helicopter.The final tally was 34 dead, and the Republic of Argentina plunged into a crisis that led to five changes of President in a week. So what had happened to the most European country of Latin America, the one with the least extreme social inequalities, the first to eradicate tuberculosis and illiteracy and the one that had built a solid welfare state by the mid-1940s?The answer can perhaps be provided by Michel Camdessus, then head of the International Monetary Fund, who gave Argentinian President Carlos Menem the seat of honour at the fund's annual meeting in October 1998 as an example to be followed. And any parallel with present-day Europe's indignados and the IMF's repetition of self-serving advice is not pure coincidence. As it was then, so it is now. When the financial bubble bursts, it is not the bankers and their poltician supporters who suffer the consequences but the wage earners, the small savers and the unemployed.It is a curious paradox that Menem, the Argentine president most eulogised by the IMF, is also a Justicialist, that is a Peronist. He belongs to the party that created the welfare state in Argentina. As the Uruguay writer Eduardo Galeano put it to me, when Menem privatised all the state companies, \"the same ones who drafted the prologue were now writing the epilogue\".With the uncompromising style so typical of converts, Menem completed the devastating work begun by the post-Peron military dictatorship and was in turn succeeded in the task by Fernando de la R\u00faa, who drove the country into the abyss in his desire to maintain the artificial pegging of the peso to the dollar. Called \"convertibility\", this was applauded by the IMF but ultimately resulted in the flight abroad of 170 thousand million dollars (equivalent to the country's total foreign debt), the end of credit, the fall into default and \u2013 most serious of all \u2013 millions of people excluded from the market, marginalised, transformed into the wretched of the third millennium.The depression was so deep that the turnaround begun by N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who came to office in 2003, and continued by his wife, the current President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner can be seen as a significant contrast: growth of 9% almost every year since 2003 and a strong increase in consumption.Despite this, and the undoubted fact that the \"Kirchner model\" does not follow the recipes of the IMF in an orthodox way, Argentina is very far from the paradise that is painted by the official propaganda. The country might see those demonstrations return again.Growth does not automatically mean\u00a0development. When Kircher speaks of the creation of five million jobs and presents this as the most prosperous age in Argentine history, she fails to mention a few fundamental details. First, the growth in GDP is closely tied to the increase in commodities, particularly soya and maize, for use as biofuels. This model impoverishes the soil, fosters the concentration of land ownership and limits the diversity of agro-industrial options that the countryside could have. As if this were not enough, it depends on market factors that are unaffected by national decision-making. Second, the huge resources generated by this international \"tail wind\" have not succeeded in putting an end to either the enormous social marginalisation that Argentina is still suffering or the political clientelism that this has brought about. Third, by lying shamelessly about the inflation rate (it is\u00a0said to be 8% annually when actually it touches 25% percent), the government is concealing the true level of poverty and priming a bomb that is threatening to explode in the near future.Furthermore, by opting for future development through mega-mining using cyanide (such as that by Barrick Gold in the Andes) and offshore exploitation in the Patagonian Sea, the government of Cristina Kirchner is taking Argentina back to the model of extraction of raw materials that held sway in colonial times. Which may explain an apparent contradiction: the under the table negotiations with the dangerous consultants of the IMF. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina is no paradise | Miguel Bonasso"},{"date": "2011-11-07T12:56:43Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After a month in Colombia, the tour returns with recommendations ranging from Jorge Isaacs's Maria, described by dande as \"One of the most notable works of the Romantic movement in Spanish literature\" to Tom\u00e1s Gonz\u00e1lez's La Luz Dif\u00edcil, a newly released novel which according to K \"Colombian Literature junkies are giving \u2026 outstanding reviews\".Along the way Daryl suggested Elena Garces's Colombian Women \"deserves to be read as an indicator of the contemporary situation of women in many other Latin American countries\", while Rafael Leal cited the \"reactionary\" philosopher Nicol\u00e1s G\u00f3mez D\u00e1vila, who apparently \"did not believe in translations and read everything in its original language\" \u2013 though his own works, consisting \"mostly of aphorisms\" are available in \"Polish, German, Italian and French\". For Leandro, whereas Gabriel Garc\u00eda M\u00e1rquez describes \"Latin-American reality\", Fernando Vallejo \"describes Colombian reality\" in particular, so that Colombians reading Vallejo feel \"pain, anger\" from descriptions which \"destroy our hearts\". Thanks for all these recommendations, especially the outpouring of love for Victor M Rosell\u00f3's East of the Orteguaza.This month the tour travels the length of South America and winds up in Argentina \u2013 straight into the meta-fictional labyrinth inhabited by Jorge Luis Borges. With his infinite libraries, fictional texts and rewritten novels, Borges carved out new territory for the short story, but after pausing to admire his convoluted charms, perhaps we can find a way out from his tangled fictional universe and discover where to start with the gaucho literature of the 19th century, or the realists who followed them. And what about literature under Per\u00f3n, and the great Argentinian authors of today?We're looking for books which capture something of Argentinian life, whether novels or plays, poetry or non-fiction, whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about voices from abroad who offer a fresh perspective. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 that's Argentina this month \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. I'm off to add a paean to Ficciones, and one of the best novels I've read in the last couple of years, Martin Kohan's Seconds Out, but don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next stop. Even if you haven't got a favourite Argentinian author on your shelf, your votes still count. Next stop Kenya?", "tags": ["Jorge Luis Borges", "Books", "Fiction", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Argentina"},{"date": "2011-12-22T16:25:47Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the late 19th and early 20th centuries Brazil couldn't find enough migrants. Seeking to fuel the Sao Paulo coffee boom, authorities actively recruited impoverished Europeans and later Japanese citizens.Today migrating to Brazil is no longer so easy. Aside from marrying a Brazilian or having a Brazilian child \u2013 as did the great train robber Ronnie Biggs \u2013 several options exist for those hoping to relocate to South America's largest nation.Work visas are routinely issued to directors and high-level employees from foreign companies operating in Brazil. Over 50s, who can prove a monthly income of over $2,000, are issued with retirement visas.Another possibility is an \"investment visa\", granted by the work ministry to foreigners who commit to investing at least $50,000 in an existing Brazilian company or a start-up that will create at least 10 Brazilian jobs in five years.A number of European immigrants work in Brazil illegally, renewing 90-day tourist visas by leaving the country and returning. During a 2009 amnesty on illegal immigration around 2,400 Europeans legalised their status with the federal police.Unlike Brazil, Argentina has an open-doors policy, with immigrants from Europe particularly welcome. No specific skills or country quotas are in place. All an applicant needs is a letter from an employer or potential employer and a certificate of good conduct from the police of their country of origin.It is also possible to look for a job once in Argentina on a tourist visa. Europeans can travel to Argentina without a visa and are automatically given a free 90-day tourist visa upon arrival. After finding a job immigrants can go to the migrations department with a letter from their employer and a certificate of good conduct from their country of origin. Application requirements are fairly straightforward but the same cannot be said for Argentina's often nightmarish bureaucracy. It can take several months until a visa is actually issued.Migration to Australia is also not as easy as it once was. In the year to June 2011 there were 113,850 places for skilled migrants to Australia. The skilled occupation list determines which professions or trades can apply for unsponsored migration.As well as occupation, applicants are assessed on the basis of their age, qualifications, English language ability and employability. Australian employers can also sponsor potential migrants to fill vacancies in their businesses.Several government initiatives encourage migration to regional and low population growth areas of the country. A business skills visa allows business owners, senior executives or investors to apply for a temporary visa, and later for residency if requirements are satisfied.Canada's immigration programme was comprehensively revised in 2002, and now lists three main objectives of its immigration policy: reuniting families, contributing to economic development and protecting refugees.Family class migration allows foreign nationals to migrate to Canada under the sponsorship of close relatives (typically spouses and partners, parents, children or grandchildren) already permanently (and legally) residing in Canada.Options for economic migrants include applying from outside Canada on the basis of having skills and experience matching a number of specific \"in-demand\" categories identified by the Canadian government, or applying from within Canada for individuals with sufficient (typically two years) relevant Canadian work experience \u2013 for example through a temporary employment visa granted by a Canadian employer.Other avenues exist for business immigrants who intend to set up a business in Canada, or can invest a set sum (currently C$800,000, or \u00a3500,000) with the Canadian government for a period of five years, have a minimum net worth of C$1.6 million and can demonstrate they have business experience.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Argentina", "Americas", "Canada", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Argentina opens doors to migrants, but settling elsewhere is harder"},{"date": "2011-12-22T16:23:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The newly elected prime minister of Spain, Mariano Rajoy, caused a minor scandal during his electoral campaign earlier this year when he claimed that \"1,200 young Spaniards are emigrating to Argentina each month\" due to his country's economic crisis.Rajoy's claim was probably exaggerated, but the mass arrival of young Europeans is nonetheless clearly evident in the streets of Buenos Aires today.Most of them come from Spain and Italy but some are from Britain.\"There've been evenings in Buenos Aires coming home on the underground where I ride listening to English conversations on the train,\" says 28-year-old former London stockbroker Jeremy Hanson, who moved here two years ago. \"Then I get off at Carranza station and I come up the stairs and there are people ahead of me speaking English and then I'm walking down Campos Avenue to my apartment and there are people walking towards me and as they pass they're English too.\"Mixed Italian, Spanish and English accents stand out in colonial San Telmo, middle-class Belgrano or the trendy boutique-lined streets of Palermo Hollywood and Palermo Soho, the neighbourhoods most favoured by the growing number of young professionals who have come here seeking jobs and a more relaxed lifestyle.\"In Barcelona I didn't even bother looking for a job because there just is no work in Spain,\" says Montserrat Fabregas, a 30-year-old architect who came here last year to join one of the most important architecture studios in Argentina.Fabregas is ecstatic at her success in Buenos Aires, where she combines working on projects for the MSGSSS studio with serving as a volunteer for a non-governmental organisation that provides improved homes for poorer areas outside the city. \"I have already built my first house, even if it is just a humble nine by 18-feet one in a poor neighbourhood,\" says Fabregas. Every weekend she climbs the scaffolding with construction workers, building wooden homes to replace the aluminium-siding shacks of shanty-town dwellers.For Chiara Boschiero, a 33-year-old film producer from Italy, Argentina has provided a similar escape. \"In Italy, with the crisis, people my age have closed up inside, you feel there is no more hope,\" she says sitting at a caf\u00e9 near her home in the tree-lined neighbourhood of Belgrano. \"Here people are still willing to put their heart into what they do. Italy is a country of old people, it is very difficult for a director under 40 to make a film. But Argentina is young and there are many directors and producers here younger than I am who are very successful.\"Two years ago, Hanson decided to leave his job at a London financial services firm to teach English privately to business executives in Buenos Aires. The effects of the crisis on his London firm had become unendurable. \"The company was adjusting, making redundancies, tightening everything,\" he says, relaxing at an ice-cream parlour near his shared Belgrano apartment. \"I was completely asphyxiated by ridiculous things like measuring how quickly you responded to phone calls.\"Sunny Buenos Aires has proven a welcome change from that stress. \"The climate is perfect, getting a job here was pretty easy and the people are great.\"The large majority of young Europeans here work under the radar of the Migrations Department, residing as students or travelling back and forth to neighbouring Uruguay to renew their tourist visa every three months. But figures for official residency permits for Europeans have about doubled in the past five years, to a projected 2,000 for this year. The real number of new residents is much higher, with Spaniards leading the wave, followed by Italians, French, Germans and Britons.Few plan to return home any time soon. \"Mine is a lost generation in Spain,\" says Fabregas. \"I had planned to stay two years and go back, but now I realise I won't because the panorama is too bleak. My friends still have no jobs. I am very lucky I moved to Argentina.\"Hanson is thinking of buying an apartment to stay permanently. \"I've read stories on the internet from people with bad experiences, but I think a lot of it comes down to the effort you're prepared to make on a personal level.Some people come without learning Spanish and they expect to start a life without knowing the language and when it doesn't work out they go on the internet and they give it a bad press.\"Boschiero agrees. \"The bureaucracy here is horrendous but if you take the time to sit down and have a coffee with someone then the doors open magically. It's a country with a complicated history so people are used to helping each other out, I do this for you and you do this for me and together we form a human chain to help each other out.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 23 December 2011. We said 1,200 Spaniards were emigrating to Argentina each year, rather than each month. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Europe", "Financial crisis", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "Young Europeans flock to Argentina for job opportunities"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "It was sticky and humid when dawn broke on 20 December 2001. The sound of shots could be heard behind us; the angry crowd protesting in the Plaza de Mayo began to move back. Then I saw him: that man in the blue trousers and Hawaiian shirt who fell on the steps of parliament. I knew he was dead. We started to retreat, pursued by the Infantry Guard Corps. Any of us could have ended up that way, with a bullet in the head. Yet we returned, despite the state of seige and the teargas and the bullets, until, later in the afternoon, President Fernando de la R\u00faa, the man who had ordered the repression, made his escape in a helicopter.The final tally was 34 dead, and the Republic of Argentina plunged into a crisis that led to five changes of President in a week. So what had happened to the most European country of Latin America, the one with the least extreme social inequalities, the first to eradicate tuberculosis and illiteracy and the one that had built a solid welfare state by the mid-1940s?The answer can perhaps be provided by Michel Camdessus, then head of the International Monetary Fund, who gave Argentinian President Carlos Menem the seat of honour at the fund's annual meeting in October 1998 as an example to be followed. And any parallel with present-day Europe's indignados and the IMF's repetition of self-serving advice is not pure coincidence. As it was then, so it is now. When the financial bubble bursts, it is not the bankers and their poltician supporters who suffer the consequences but the wage earners, the small savers and the unemployed.It is a curious paradox that Menem, the Argentine president most eulogised by the IMF, is also a Justicialist, that is a Peronist. He belongs to the party that created the welfare state in Argentina. As the Uruguay writer Eduardo Galeano put it to me, when Menem privatised all the state companies, \"the same ones who drafted the prologue were now writing the epilogue\".With the uncompromising style so typical of converts, Menem completed the devastating work begun by the post-Peron military dictatorship and was in turn succeeded in the task by Fernando de la R\u00faa, who drove the country into the abyss in his desire to maintain the artificial pegging of the peso to the dollar. Called \"convertibility\", this was applauded by the IMF but ultimately resulted in the flight abroad of 170 thousand million dollars (equivalent to the country's total foreign debt), the end of credit, the fall into default and \u2013 most serious of all \u2013 millions of people excluded from the market, marginalised, transformed into the wretched of the third millennium.The depression was so deep that the turnaround begun by N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who came to office in 2003, and continued by his wife, the current President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner can be seen as a significant contrast: growth of 9% almost every year since 2003 and a strong increase in consumption.Despite this, and the undoubted fact that the \"Kirchner model\" does not follow the recipes of the IMF in an orthodox way, Argentina is very far from the paradise that is painted by the official propaganda. The country might see those demonstrations return again.Growth does not automatically mean\u00a0development. When Kircher speaks of the creation of five million jobs and presents this as the most prosperous age in Argentine history, she fails to mention a few fundamental details. First, the growth in GDP is closely tied to the increase in commodities, particularly soya and maize, for use as biofuels. This model impoverishes the soil, fosters the concentration of land ownership and limits the diversity of agro-industrial options that the countryside could have. As if this were not enough, it depends on market factors that are unaffected by national decision-making. Second, the huge resources generated by this international \"tail wind\" have not succeeded in putting an end to either the enormous social marginalisation that Argentina is still suffering or the political clientelism that this has brought about. Third, by lying shamelessly about the inflation rate (it is\u00a0said to be 8% annually when actually it touches 25% percent), the government is concealing the true level of poverty and priming a bomb that is threatening to explode in the near future.Furthermore, by opting for future development through mega-mining using cyanide (such as that by Barrick Gold in the Andes) and offshore exploitation in the Patagonian Sea, the government of Cristina Kirchner is taking Argentina back to the model of extraction of raw materials that held sway in colonial times. Which may explain an apparent contradiction: the under the table negotiations with the dangerous consultants of the IMF. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina is no paradise | Miguel Bonasso"},{"date": "2011-11-07T12:56:43Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After a month in Colombia, the tour returns with recommendations ranging from Jorge Isaacs's Maria, described by dande as \"One of the most notable works of the Romantic movement in Spanish literature\" to Tom\u00e1s Gonz\u00e1lez's La Luz Dif\u00edcil, a newly released novel which according to K \"Colombian Literature junkies are giving \u2026 outstanding reviews\".Along the way Daryl suggested Elena Garces's Colombian Women \"deserves to be read as an indicator of the contemporary situation of women in many other Latin American countries\", while Rafael Leal cited the \"reactionary\" philosopher Nicol\u00e1s G\u00f3mez D\u00e1vila, who apparently \"did not believe in translations and read everything in its original language\" \u2013 though his own works, consisting \"mostly of aphorisms\" are available in \"Polish, German, Italian and French\". For Leandro, whereas Gabriel Garc\u00eda M\u00e1rquez describes \"Latin-American reality\", Fernando Vallejo \"describes Colombian reality\" in particular, so that Colombians reading Vallejo feel \"pain, anger\" from descriptions which \"destroy our hearts\". Thanks for all these recommendations, especially the outpouring of love for Victor M Rosell\u00f3's East of the Orteguaza.This month the tour travels the length of South America and winds up in Argentina \u2013 straight into the meta-fictional labyrinth inhabited by Jorge Luis Borges. With his infinite libraries, fictional texts and rewritten novels, Borges carved out new territory for the short story, but after pausing to admire his convoluted charms, perhaps we can find a way out from his tangled fictional universe and discover where to start with the gaucho literature of the 19th century, or the realists who followed them. And what about literature under Per\u00f3n, and the great Argentinian authors of today?We're looking for books which capture something of Argentinian life, whether novels or plays, poetry or non-fiction, whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about voices from abroad who offer a fresh perspective. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 that's Argentina this month \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. I'm off to add a paean to Ficciones, and one of the best novels I've read in the last couple of years, Martin Kohan's Seconds Out, but don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next stop. Even if you haven't got a favourite Argentinian author on your shelf, your votes still count. Next stop Kenya?", "tags": ["Jorge Luis Borges", "Books", "Fiction", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Argentina"},{"date": "2011-12-22T16:25:47Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the late 19th and early 20th centuries Brazil couldn't find enough migrants. Seeking to fuel the Sao Paulo coffee boom, authorities actively recruited impoverished Europeans and later Japanese citizens.Today migrating to Brazil is no longer so easy. Aside from marrying a Brazilian or having a Brazilian child \u2013 as did the great train robber Ronnie Biggs \u2013 several options exist for those hoping to relocate to South America's largest nation.Work visas are routinely issued to directors and high-level employees from foreign companies operating in Brazil. Over 50s, who can prove a monthly income of over $2,000, are issued with retirement visas.Another possibility is an \"investment visa\", granted by the work ministry to foreigners who commit to investing at least $50,000 in an existing Brazilian company or a start-up that will create at least 10 Brazilian jobs in five years.A number of European immigrants work in Brazil illegally, renewing 90-day tourist visas by leaving the country and returning. During a 2009 amnesty on illegal immigration around 2,400 Europeans legalised their status with the federal police.Unlike Brazil, Argentina has an open-doors policy, with immigrants from Europe particularly welcome. No specific skills or country quotas are in place. All an applicant needs is a letter from an employer or potential employer and a certificate of good conduct from the police of their country of origin.It is also possible to look for a job once in Argentina on a tourist visa. Europeans can travel to Argentina without a visa and are automatically given a free 90-day tourist visa upon arrival. After finding a job immigrants can go to the migrations department with a letter from their employer and a certificate of good conduct from their country of origin. Application requirements are fairly straightforward but the same cannot be said for Argentina's often nightmarish bureaucracy. It can take several months until a visa is actually issued.Migration to Australia is also not as easy as it once was. In the year to June 2011 there were 113,850 places for skilled migrants to Australia. The skilled occupation list determines which professions or trades can apply for unsponsored migration.As well as occupation, applicants are assessed on the basis of their age, qualifications, English language ability and employability. Australian employers can also sponsor potential migrants to fill vacancies in their businesses.Several government initiatives encourage migration to regional and low population growth areas of the country. A business skills visa allows business owners, senior executives or investors to apply for a temporary visa, and later for residency if requirements are satisfied.Canada's immigration programme was comprehensively revised in 2002, and now lists three main objectives of its immigration policy: reuniting families, contributing to economic development and protecting refugees.Family class migration allows foreign nationals to migrate to Canada under the sponsorship of close relatives (typically spouses and partners, parents, children or grandchildren) already permanently (and legally) residing in Canada.Options for economic migrants include applying from outside Canada on the basis of having skills and experience matching a number of specific \"in-demand\" categories identified by the Canadian government, or applying from within Canada for individuals with sufficient (typically two years) relevant Canadian work experience \u2013 for example through a temporary employment visa granted by a Canadian employer.Other avenues exist for business immigrants who intend to set up a business in Canada, or can invest a set sum (currently C$800,000, or \u00a3500,000) with the Canadian government for a period of five years, have a minimum net worth of C$1.6 million and can demonstrate they have business experience.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Argentina", "Americas", "Canada", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Argentina opens doors to migrants, but settling elsewhere is harder"},{"date": "2011-12-22T16:23:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The newly elected prime minister of Spain, Mariano Rajoy, caused a minor scandal during his electoral campaign earlier this year when he claimed that \"1,200 young Spaniards are emigrating to Argentina each month\" due to his country's economic crisis.Rajoy's claim was probably exaggerated, but the mass arrival of young Europeans is nonetheless clearly evident in the streets of Buenos Aires today.Most of them come from Spain and Italy but some are from Britain.\"There've been evenings in Buenos Aires coming home on the underground where I ride listening to English conversations on the train,\" says 28-year-old former London stockbroker Jeremy Hanson, who moved here two years ago. \"Then I get off at Carranza station and I come up the stairs and there are people ahead of me speaking English and then I'm walking down Campos Avenue to my apartment and there are people walking towards me and as they pass they're English too.\"Mixed Italian, Spanish and English accents stand out in colonial San Telmo, middle-class Belgrano or the trendy boutique-lined streets of Palermo Hollywood and Palermo Soho, the neighbourhoods most favoured by the growing number of young professionals who have come here seeking jobs and a more relaxed lifestyle.\"In Barcelona I didn't even bother looking for a job because there just is no work in Spain,\" says Montserrat Fabregas, a 30-year-old architect who came here last year to join one of the most important architecture studios in Argentina.Fabregas is ecstatic at her success in Buenos Aires, where she combines working on projects for the MSGSSS studio with serving as a volunteer for a non-governmental organisation that provides improved homes for poorer areas outside the city. \"I have already built my first house, even if it is just a humble nine by 18-feet one in a poor neighbourhood,\" says Fabregas. Every weekend she climbs the scaffolding with construction workers, building wooden homes to replace the aluminium-siding shacks of shanty-town dwellers.For Chiara Boschiero, a 33-year-old film producer from Italy, Argentina has provided a similar escape. \"In Italy, with the crisis, people my age have closed up inside, you feel there is no more hope,\" she says sitting at a caf\u00e9 near her home in the tree-lined neighbourhood of Belgrano. \"Here people are still willing to put their heart into what they do. Italy is a country of old people, it is very difficult for a director under 40 to make a film. But Argentina is young and there are many directors and producers here younger than I am who are very successful.\"Two years ago, Hanson decided to leave his job at a London financial services firm to teach English privately to business executives in Buenos Aires. The effects of the crisis on his London firm had become unendurable. \"The company was adjusting, making redundancies, tightening everything,\" he says, relaxing at an ice-cream parlour near his shared Belgrano apartment. \"I was completely asphyxiated by ridiculous things like measuring how quickly you responded to phone calls.\"Sunny Buenos Aires has proven a welcome change from that stress. \"The climate is perfect, getting a job here was pretty easy and the people are great.\"The large majority of young Europeans here work under the radar of the Migrations Department, residing as students or travelling back and forth to neighbouring Uruguay to renew their tourist visa every three months. But figures for official residency permits for Europeans have about doubled in the past five years, to a projected 2,000 for this year. The real number of new residents is much higher, with Spaniards leading the wave, followed by Italians, French, Germans and Britons.Few plan to return home any time soon. \"Mine is a lost generation in Spain,\" says Fabregas. \"I had planned to stay two years and go back, but now I realise I won't because the panorama is too bleak. My friends still have no jobs. I am very lucky I moved to Argentina.\"Hanson is thinking of buying an apartment to stay permanently. \"I've read stories on the internet from people with bad experiences, but I think a lot of it comes down to the effort you're prepared to make on a personal level.Some people come without learning Spanish and they expect to start a life without knowing the language and when it doesn't work out they go on the internet and they give it a bad press.\"Boschiero agrees. \"The bureaucracy here is horrendous but if you take the time to sit down and have a coffee with someone then the doors open magically. It's a country with a complicated history so people are used to helping each other out, I do this for you and you do this for me and together we form a human chain to help each other out.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 23 December 2011. We said 1,200 Spaniards were emigrating to Argentina each year, rather than each month. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Europe", "Financial crisis", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "Young Europeans flock to Argentina for job opportunities"},{"date": "2011-12-22T20:30:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In British diplomatic circles, no one dares to even discuss the future of the Falkland Islands. As far as they are concerned, the issue is settled. There is nothing to talk about, still less to negotiate. And this policy is unlikely to change following the news that the South American trading bloc, Mercosur \u2013 which includes not only Argentina but Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay \u2013 has agreed to close its ports to all ships flying the Falklands flag.To reinforce British diplomats' wilful blindness, the Foreign Office has closed half a dozen embassies in Latin America in recent years, to minimise the danger of receiving subversive opinions from foreign capitals. All part of Britain's national decline.Given that Argentina and Britain both have a good claim to the islands, common sense would suggest that the two countries should meet to negotiate a solution, and that is exactly what Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has often suggested. She has not been \"ratcheting up the pressure\", still less has she been preparing the Argentinian military for an attack. She is merely reiterating a longstanding policy, one that is ensconced permanently in the country's constitution.Argentina has had a democratic government for nearly 30 years, and the military are wholly discredited as a result of their participation in the \"dirty war\" of the 1970s as well as for their fruitless assault on the islands in 1982. They are confined to barracks and have neither the funds nor the weapons nor the inclination to seize the islands.What has changed in recent years is the political climate in Latin America. New governments have appeared across the continent with a progressive and nationalist agenda. They do not always see eye to eye with each other, their views on economic policy may differ, but they are united in believing their continent should organise itself for the benefit of its own peoples without outside interference.This is an age-old aspiration, dating back to the 19th century, but in recent years new organisations have been created to give this idea coherence. Some deal with the mundane operations of banking and energy, others have more ambitious political plans, notably the recently established Community of Latin American and Caribbean States. All give voice to the desire to go their own way, without the controlling hand of the US \u2013 or indeed of Britain, America's close ally.Sources of oil under the South Atlantic seas are now, of course, part of the equation, and if oil is found in commercial quantities it will be difficult for any company to exploit it without the assistance and co-operation of the Argentinian mainland. In such an event the Foreign Office will be obliged to awake from its long, self-imposed slumber.The UK complained about Mercosur's action this week, but President Jos\u00e9 Mujica of Uruguay replied swiftly \"we hold nothing against the UK, but we have a lot in favour of Argentina\".Traditionally the Foreign Office tells reporters, sotto voce, that the governments of Latin America (and, importantly, these alliances now include Caribbean countries with historical ties to Britain) speak with forked tongues and do not really support the Argentinian claim to the Falklands.Yet the truth is that the background music has changed. The countries of Latin America no longer look to Europe and the US for support and advice. They have grown to like doing their own thing. This week Argentina's claim to the Falklands has been powerfully reinforced.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "Britain is asleep over Argentina and the Falkland Islands | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2011-12-19T21:00:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "It was sticky and humid when dawn broke on 20 December 2001. The sound of shots could be heard behind us; the angry crowd protesting in the Plaza de Mayo began to move back. Then I saw him: that man in the blue trousers and Hawaiian shirt who fell on the steps of parliament. I knew he was dead. We started to retreat, pursued by the Infantry Guard Corps. Any of us could have ended up that way, with a bullet in the head. Yet we returned, despite the state of seige and the teargas and the bullets, until, later in the afternoon, President Fernando de la R\u00faa, the man who had ordered the repression, made his escape in a helicopter.The final tally was 34 dead, and the Republic of Argentina plunged into a crisis that led to five changes of President in a week. So what had happened to the most European country of Latin America, the one with the least extreme social inequalities, the first to eradicate tuberculosis and illiteracy and the one that had built a solid welfare state by the mid-1940s?The answer can perhaps be provided by Michel Camdessus, then head of the International Monetary Fund, who gave Argentinian President Carlos Menem the seat of honour at the fund's annual meeting in October 1998 as an example to be followed. And any parallel with present-day Europe's indignados and the IMF's repetition of self-serving advice is not pure coincidence. As it was then, so it is now. When the financial bubble bursts, it is not the bankers and their poltician supporters who suffer the consequences but the wage earners, the small savers and the unemployed.It is a curious paradox that Menem, the Argentine president most eulogised by the IMF, is also a Justicialist, that is a Peronist. He belongs to the party that created the welfare state in Argentina. As the Uruguay writer Eduardo Galeano put it to me, when Menem privatised all the state companies, \"the same ones who drafted the prologue were now writing the epilogue\".With the uncompromising style so typical of converts, Menem completed the devastating work begun by the post-Peron military dictatorship and was in turn succeeded in the task by Fernando de la R\u00faa, who drove the country into the abyss in his desire to maintain the artificial pegging of the peso to the dollar. Called \"convertibility\", this was applauded by the IMF but ultimately resulted in the flight abroad of 170 thousand million dollars (equivalent to the country's total foreign debt), the end of credit, the fall into default and \u2013 most serious of all \u2013 millions of people excluded from the market, marginalised, transformed into the wretched of the third millennium.The depression was so deep that the turnaround begun by N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who came to office in 2003, and continued by his wife, the current President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner can be seen as a significant contrast: growth of 9% almost every year since 2003 and a strong increase in consumption.Despite this, and the undoubted fact that the \"Kirchner model\" does not follow the recipes of the IMF in an orthodox way, Argentina is very far from the paradise that is painted by the official propaganda. The country might see those demonstrations return again.Growth does not automatically mean\u00a0development. When Kircher speaks of the creation of five million jobs and presents this as the most prosperous age in Argentine history, she fails to mention a few fundamental details. First, the growth in GDP is closely tied to the increase in commodities, particularly soya and maize, for use as biofuels. This model impoverishes the soil, fosters the concentration of land ownership and limits the diversity of agro-industrial options that the countryside could have. As if this were not enough, it depends on market factors that are unaffected by national decision-making. Second, the huge resources generated by this international \"tail wind\" have not succeeded in putting an end to either the enormous social marginalisation that Argentina is still suffering or the political clientelism that this has brought about. Third, by lying shamelessly about the inflation rate (it is\u00a0said to be 8% annually when actually it touches 25% percent), the government is concealing the true level of poverty and priming a bomb that is threatening to explode in the near future.Furthermore, by opting for future development through mega-mining using cyanide (such as that by Barrick Gold in the Andes) and offshore exploitation in the Patagonian Sea, the government of Cristina Kirchner is taking Argentina back to the model of extraction of raw materials that held sway in colonial times. Which may explain an apparent contradiction: the under the table negotiations with the dangerous consultants of the IMF. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina is no paradise | Miguel Bonasso"},{"date": "2011-11-07T12:56:43Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After a month in Colombia, the tour returns with recommendations ranging from Jorge Isaacs's Maria, described by dande as \"One of the most notable works of the Romantic movement in Spanish literature\" to Tom\u00e1s Gonz\u00e1lez's La Luz Dif\u00edcil, a newly released novel which according to K \"Colombian Literature junkies are giving \u2026 outstanding reviews\".Along the way Daryl suggested Elena Garces's Colombian Women \"deserves to be read as an indicator of the contemporary situation of women in many other Latin American countries\", while Rafael Leal cited the \"reactionary\" philosopher Nicol\u00e1s G\u00f3mez D\u00e1vila, who apparently \"did not believe in translations and read everything in its original language\" \u2013 though his own works, consisting \"mostly of aphorisms\" are available in \"Polish, German, Italian and French\". For Leandro, whereas Gabriel Garc\u00eda M\u00e1rquez describes \"Latin-American reality\", Fernando Vallejo \"describes Colombian reality\" in particular, so that Colombians reading Vallejo feel \"pain, anger\" from descriptions which \"destroy our hearts\". Thanks for all these recommendations, especially the outpouring of love for Victor M Rosell\u00f3's East of the Orteguaza.This month the tour travels the length of South America and winds up in Argentina \u2013 straight into the meta-fictional labyrinth inhabited by Jorge Luis Borges. With his infinite libraries, fictional texts and rewritten novels, Borges carved out new territory for the short story, but after pausing to admire his convoluted charms, perhaps we can find a way out from his tangled fictional universe and discover where to start with the gaucho literature of the 19th century, or the realists who followed them. And what about literature under Per\u00f3n, and the great Argentinian authors of today?We're looking for books which capture something of Argentinian life, whether novels or plays, poetry or non-fiction, whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about voices from abroad who offer a fresh perspective. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 that's Argentina this month \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. I'm off to add a paean to Ficciones, and one of the best novels I've read in the last couple of years, Martin Kohan's Seconds Out, but don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next stop. Even if you haven't got a favourite Argentinian author on your shelf, your votes still count. Next stop Kenya?", "tags": ["Jorge Luis Borges", "Books", "Fiction", "Poetry", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Argentina"},{"date": "2011-12-22T16:25:47Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In the late 19th and early 20th centuries Brazil couldn't find enough migrants. Seeking to fuel the Sao Paulo coffee boom, authorities actively recruited impoverished Europeans and later Japanese citizens.Today migrating to Brazil is no longer so easy. Aside from marrying a Brazilian or having a Brazilian child \u2013 as did the great train robber Ronnie Biggs \u2013 several options exist for those hoping to relocate to South America's largest nation.Work visas are routinely issued to directors and high-level employees from foreign companies operating in Brazil. Over 50s, who can prove a monthly income of over $2,000, are issued with retirement visas.Another possibility is an \"investment visa\", granted by the work ministry to foreigners who commit to investing at least $50,000 in an existing Brazilian company or a start-up that will create at least 10 Brazilian jobs in five years.A number of European immigrants work in Brazil illegally, renewing 90-day tourist visas by leaving the country and returning. During a 2009 amnesty on illegal immigration around 2,400 Europeans legalised their status with the federal police.Unlike Brazil, Argentina has an open-doors policy, with immigrants from Europe particularly welcome. No specific skills or country quotas are in place. All an applicant needs is a letter from an employer or potential employer and a certificate of good conduct from the police of their country of origin.It is also possible to look for a job once in Argentina on a tourist visa. Europeans can travel to Argentina without a visa and are automatically given a free 90-day tourist visa upon arrival. After finding a job immigrants can go to the migrations department with a letter from their employer and a certificate of good conduct from their country of origin. Application requirements are fairly straightforward but the same cannot be said for Argentina's often nightmarish bureaucracy. It can take several months until a visa is actually issued.Migration to Australia is also not as easy as it once was. In the year to June 2011 there were 113,850 places for skilled migrants to Australia. The skilled occupation list determines which professions or trades can apply for unsponsored migration.As well as occupation, applicants are assessed on the basis of their age, qualifications, English language ability and employability. Australian employers can also sponsor potential migrants to fill vacancies in their businesses.Several government initiatives encourage migration to regional and low population growth areas of the country. A business skills visa allows business owners, senior executives or investors to apply for a temporary visa, and later for residency if requirements are satisfied.Canada's immigration programme was comprehensively revised in 2002, and now lists three main objectives of its immigration policy: reuniting families, contributing to economic development and protecting refugees.Family class migration allows foreign nationals to migrate to Canada under the sponsorship of close relatives (typically spouses and partners, parents, children or grandchildren) already permanently (and legally) residing in Canada.Options for economic migrants include applying from outside Canada on the basis of having skills and experience matching a number of specific \"in-demand\" categories identified by the Canadian government, or applying from within Canada for individuals with sufficient (typically two years) relevant Canadian work experience \u2013 for example through a temporary employment visa granted by a Canadian employer.Other avenues exist for business immigrants who intend to set up a business in Canada, or can invest a set sum (currently C$800,000, or \u00a3500,000) with the Canadian government for a period of five years, have a minimum net worth of C$1.6 million and can demonstrate they have business experience.", "tags": ["Brazil", "Argentina", "Americas", "Canada", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Argentina opens doors to migrants, but settling elsewhere is harder"},{"date": "2011-12-22T16:23:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The newly elected prime minister of Spain, Mariano Rajoy, caused a minor scandal during his electoral campaign earlier this year when he claimed that \"1,200 young Spaniards are emigrating to Argentina each month\" due to his country's economic crisis.Rajoy's claim was probably exaggerated, but the mass arrival of young Europeans is nonetheless clearly evident in the streets of Buenos Aires today.Most of them come from Spain and Italy but some are from Britain.\"There've been evenings in Buenos Aires coming home on the underground where I ride listening to English conversations on the train,\" says 28-year-old former London stockbroker Jeremy Hanson, who moved here two years ago. \"Then I get off at Carranza station and I come up the stairs and there are people ahead of me speaking English and then I'm walking down Campos Avenue to my apartment and there are people walking towards me and as they pass they're English too.\"Mixed Italian, Spanish and English accents stand out in colonial San Telmo, middle-class Belgrano or the trendy boutique-lined streets of Palermo Hollywood and Palermo Soho, the neighbourhoods most favoured by the growing number of young professionals who have come here seeking jobs and a more relaxed lifestyle.\"In Barcelona I didn't even bother looking for a job because there just is no work in Spain,\" says Montserrat Fabregas, a 30-year-old architect who came here last year to join one of the most important architecture studios in Argentina.Fabregas is ecstatic at her success in Buenos Aires, where she combines working on projects for the MSGSSS studio with serving as a volunteer for a non-governmental organisation that provides improved homes for poorer areas outside the city. \"I have already built my first house, even if it is just a humble nine by 18-feet one in a poor neighbourhood,\" says Fabregas. Every weekend she climbs the scaffolding with construction workers, building wooden homes to replace the aluminium-siding shacks of shanty-town dwellers.For Chiara Boschiero, a 33-year-old film producer from Italy, Argentina has provided a similar escape. \"In Italy, with the crisis, people my age have closed up inside, you feel there is no more hope,\" she says sitting at a caf\u00e9 near her home in the tree-lined neighbourhood of Belgrano. \"Here people are still willing to put their heart into what they do. Italy is a country of old people, it is very difficult for a director under 40 to make a film. But Argentina is young and there are many directors and producers here younger than I am who are very successful.\"Two years ago, Hanson decided to leave his job at a London financial services firm to teach English privately to business executives in Buenos Aires. The effects of the crisis on his London firm had become unendurable. \"The company was adjusting, making redundancies, tightening everything,\" he says, relaxing at an ice-cream parlour near his shared Belgrano apartment. \"I was completely asphyxiated by ridiculous things like measuring how quickly you responded to phone calls.\"Sunny Buenos Aires has proven a welcome change from that stress. \"The climate is perfect, getting a job here was pretty easy and the people are great.\"The large majority of young Europeans here work under the radar of the Migrations Department, residing as students or travelling back and forth to neighbouring Uruguay to renew their tourist visa every three months. But figures for official residency permits for Europeans have about doubled in the past five years, to a projected 2,000 for this year. The real number of new residents is much higher, with Spaniards leading the wave, followed by Italians, French, Germans and Britons.Few plan to return home any time soon. \"Mine is a lost generation in Spain,\" says Fabregas. \"I had planned to stay two years and go back, but now I realise I won't because the panorama is too bleak. My friends still have no jobs. I am very lucky I moved to Argentina.\"Hanson is thinking of buying an apartment to stay permanently. \"I've read stories on the internet from people with bad experiences, but I think a lot of it comes down to the effort you're prepared to make on a personal level.Some people come without learning Spanish and they expect to start a life without knowing the language and when it doesn't work out they go on the internet and they give it a bad press.\"Boschiero agrees. \"The bureaucracy here is horrendous but if you take the time to sit down and have a coffee with someone then the doors open magically. It's a country with a complicated history so people are used to helping each other out, I do this for you and you do this for me and together we form a human chain to help each other out.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 23 December 2011. We said 1,200 Spaniards were emigrating to Argentina each year, rather than each month. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Europe", "Financial crisis", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "Young Europeans flock to Argentina for job opportunities"},{"date": "2011-12-22T20:30:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In British diplomatic circles, no one dares to even discuss the future of the Falkland Islands. As far as they are concerned, the issue is settled. There is nothing to talk about, still less to negotiate. And this policy is unlikely to change following the news that the South American trading bloc, Mercosur \u2013 which includes not only Argentina but Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay \u2013 has agreed to close its ports to all ships flying the Falklands flag.To reinforce British diplomats' wilful blindness, the Foreign Office has closed half a dozen embassies in Latin America in recent years, to minimise the danger of receiving subversive opinions from foreign capitals. All part of Britain's national decline.Given that Argentina and Britain both have a good claim to the islands, common sense would suggest that the two countries should meet to negotiate a solution, and that is exactly what Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has often suggested. She has not been \"ratcheting up the pressure\", still less has she been preparing the Argentinian military for an attack. She is merely reiterating a longstanding policy, one that is ensconced permanently in the country's constitution.Argentina has had a democratic government for nearly 30 years, and the military are wholly discredited as a result of their participation in the \"dirty war\" of the 1970s as well as for their fruitless assault on the islands in 1982. They are confined to barracks and have neither the funds nor the weapons nor the inclination to seize the islands.What has changed in recent years is the political climate in Latin America. New governments have appeared across the continent with a progressive and nationalist agenda. They do not always see eye to eye with each other, their views on economic policy may differ, but they are united in believing their continent should organise itself for the benefit of its own peoples without outside interference.This is an age-old aspiration, dating back to the 19th century, but in recent years new organisations have been created to give this idea coherence. Some deal with the mundane operations of banking and energy, others have more ambitious political plans, notably the recently established Community of Latin American and Caribbean States. All give voice to the desire to go their own way, without the controlling hand of the US \u2013 or indeed of Britain, America's close ally.Sources of oil under the South Atlantic seas are now, of course, part of the equation, and if oil is found in commercial quantities it will be difficult for any company to exploit it without the assistance and co-operation of the Argentinian mainland. In such an event the Foreign Office will be obliged to awake from its long, self-imposed slumber.The UK complained about Mercosur's action this week, but President Jos\u00e9 Mujica of Uruguay replied swiftly \"we hold nothing against the UK, but we have a lot in favour of Argentina\".Traditionally the Foreign Office tells reporters, sotto voce, that the governments of Latin America (and, importantly, these alliances now include Caribbean countries with historical ties to Britain) speak with forked tongues and do not really support the Argentinian claim to the Falklands.Yet the truth is that the background music has changed. The countries of Latin America no longer look to Europe and the US for support and advice. They have grown to like doing their own thing. This week Argentina's claim to the Falklands has been powerfully reinforced.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "Britain is asleep over Argentina and the Falkland Islands | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2011-12-14T09:00:02Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Ten years ago this month, Buenos Aires's central plaza was echoing with the sound of residents bashing their saucepans in the street. In December 2001, the cacerolazos \u2013 or pot-bashers, as these protesters were dubbed \u2013 came out in their droves, doing whatever they could to be heard to register their anger against the economic mismanagement of their country. People who had never vandalised anything in their lives suddenly found themselves running towards banks, trying to smash their way into cash machines. One 23-year-old was shot dead by a security guard and an estimated 38 more died as protests escalated across the country.Amid a brutal recession and with confidence in the economy flatlining, the government had angered citizens by freezing bank accounts to stop everyone in the country taking out their money at once. The bank's best clients had already been tipped off, but the middle classes were stuck. Those saving for college funds, a house deposit or their old age watched their fund disappear in front of their eyes over the following weeks. The protests led to the resignation of the then president Fernando de la R\u00faa and a series of emergency measures. Argentina \u2013 forced to default on international debt and devalue its currency \u2013 went into freefall.Now, one decade later, the South American country is being hailed as a remarkable success story. The economy appears to be booming, with a real GDP growth of 9.1%. Unemployment is down to a 20-year low. Some have been holding it up as an example for Greece, forgetting that Greece does not have the power to manipulate its own currency, and it won't benefit from any price boom in soy, which have both been key to Argentina's recovery.At the centre of post-crisis Argentina is a couple who have polarized the nation. Centre-left populist N\u00e9stor Kirchner became the country's first post-crisis elected president in 2003; his wife, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, took over from him four years later. It was widely expected that the presidential baton would be handed back to Nestor this year, but he died suddenly of heart problems last October. A distraught Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner ended up running instead, easily winning her second term.Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's supporters praise her for the reduction in poverty and support for the working classes. They relate to the emotional, sometimes tearful, speeches of a family woman who lost her husband. Her critics, meanwhile, are convinced the current boom is only superficial. They accuse her of raiding public finances and manipulating figures. When the head of the Central Bank disagreed to using the national reserves to pay off foreign debt last year, she sacked him and did it anyway.Inflation is the big issue right now. The government says the annual rate is currently just under 10%, but unofficial figures put it as high as 25%. Independent inflation specialists have been heavily fined for not toeing the government line, and it's even alleged the state had words with McDonald's so they wouldn't be embarrassed in the Economist's Big Mac index. Economists argue that, taking this inflation into account, the country's growth could be pushed down into negative figures.Living in Argentina, you can't fail to notice it. Whereas shopkeepers used to balk when you tried to pay with a 100-peso note, now the same amount gets eaten up on a few groceries. A friend who supplies goods to a supermarket told me he renegotiates prices many times a year. More publicly, a group known as the Housewives Union recently tried to call a boycott of tomatoes and onions in protest against sharply rising prices.\"Our model is a growth model and not one of inflation targeting,\" said Kirchner late last month. \"The inflation-targeting model is a Washington consensus scheme that destroyed [Latin America]. We believe in growth, jobs and social inclusion and we are going to continue along that line.\"A statement like that is either loved or loathed. Argentinians are far more passionate about their politics than we are in the UK (unsurprisingly considering as most people of voting age lived through a brutal dictatorship). Strong opinions are commonplace. Someone else I met recently declared she had a framed picture of \"Cristina\" in her living room. Another friend went to the doctor and was told sardonically before his consultation: \"Perhaps you are allergic to the letter K.\"Kirchner is careful with her words. In her second term, she has talked about \"fine tuning\" the economy. This will involve reigning in huge levels of public spending and phasing out government subsidies for transport and industry. She's also already made the controversial step of introducing new foreign currency controls to make it harder to change pesos for dollars. It was a way to prop up a weak peso and curb capital flight, although the official line is that the state was moving to combat money laundering. So much confusion ensued that exchange bureaux simply closed their doors. TV news channels interviewed bemused tourists standing outside, while behind the scenes the housing market \u2013 which is priced entirely in dollars \u2013 stalled.Rebuilding your country after such a major financial disaster is a long process. In Argentina right now there seem to be two main schools of thought. Those that are convinced the country is on borrowed time, and those who say: \"Well, they've been saying that for years.\" For better or worse, Argentina in 2011 remains one to watch.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "Economics", "Global economy", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Ten years after economic collapse, Argentina is still in recovery | Vicky Baker"},{"date": "2012-02-27T19:51:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two British cruise liners were turned away from an Argentine port as tensions mounted over the future of the Falkland Islands.The P&O Cruises' ship Adonia and the Princess Cruises' vessel Star Princess were not allowed to dock at Ushuaia on the southern tip of Argentina.The incidents came as Britain's formal announcement of a huge marine protection area around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands threatened to further ratchet up ill-feeling in Buenos Aires.Arturo Puricelli, the Argentine defence minster, said in December when the plans first became clear that it was \"nothing more and nothing less than an attempt under the cover of protecting the environment to usurp a larger area\".His government also regards the deployment of Prince William to the Falklands with the 30th anniversary of the war approaching as provocative.The ships were turned away by application of a Tierra del Fuego law passed six months ago which bans the docking of British military ships or ships involved in \"the exploration or exploitation of natural resources\" in the South Atlantic area.Tierra de Fuego governor Fabiana Rios is said to have applied a wide interpretation of the new law at the request of 1982 war veterans.\"If we mean to cause some damage to the British, we have actually damaged all those who would have worked with that ship today,\" complained Marcelo Lieti, head of the Ushuaia Tourism Chamber.Both cruise ships called at the Falklands on Saturday. A P&O Cruises spokesperson said the Adonia, on an 87-day trip which started in Southampton on 13 January, was now on its way to Punta Arenas, Chile. Its 710 British pasengers would get a refund on shore excursions planned for Ushuaia.Princess Cruises said the Star Princess was on a 14-day South American cruise which started in Rio de Janeiro on February 18. The ship is on an 14-night cruise which departed Rio de Janeiro on February 18, 2012.Argenina's president Cristina Kirchner is giving a major address later on Monday to mark the 200th anniversary of the Argentine flag. She was expected to make a major pronouncement on \"the Malvinas\" last week but it was postponed because of a serious train crash in Buenos Aires.The new marine protection area covers more than a million square kilometres (four times the land area of the UK) around disputed overseas territories. The Foreign Office says it would \"further protect the incredibly rich biodiversity of the islands, which has some of the most important and productive fish spawning grounds in the Southern Ocean.\"It added: \"The area is also home to seven species of globally threatened seabirds, including the wandering albatross, and so is of great international importance.\"Foreign office minister Henry Bellingham said: \"The declaration of a marine protected area around South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands clearly demonstrates the UK's effective environmental stewardship of this unique and remote part of the world.\"I am delighted that the UK has been able to demonstrate further evidence of our ongoing commitment to marine conservation and protection of the globally important biodiversity of our overseas territories.\"South Georgia's wildlife recently featured in the BBC's Frozen Planet. Presenter David Attenborough said: \"I am delighted to hear of the decision to create one of the world's largest marine reserves, which will help protect the unique and precious wildlife of South Georgia and Antarctica. This is extremely timely given the dramatic change that the polar regions are currently undergoing.\"An RSPB spokesman said the waters around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \"teem with life\", adding: \"Thankfully, this wealth has long been recognised by the UK and the islands' governments who have implemented forward thinking ways of protecting this richness.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Travel & leisure", "Business", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Argentina turns away UK cruise ships"},{"date": "2012-02-27T19:51:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two British cruise liners were turned away from an Argentine port as tensions mounted over the future of the Falkland Islands.The P&O Cruises' ship Adonia and the Princess Cruises' vessel Star Princess were not allowed to dock at Ushuaia on the southern tip of Argentina.The incidents came as Britain's formal announcement of a huge marine protection area around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands threatened to further ratchet up ill-feeling in Buenos Aires.Arturo Puricelli, the Argentine defence minster, said in December when the plans first became clear that it was \"nothing more and nothing less than an attempt under the cover of protecting the environment to usurp a larger area\".His government also regards the deployment of Prince William to the Falklands with the 30th anniversary of the war approaching as provocative.The ships were turned away by application of a Tierra del Fuego law passed six months ago which bans the docking of British military ships or ships involved in \"the exploration or exploitation of natural resources\" in the South Atlantic area.Tierra de Fuego governor Fabiana Rios is said to have applied a wide interpretation of the new law at the request of 1982 war veterans.\"If we mean to cause some damage to the British, we have actually damaged all those who would have worked with that ship today,\" complained Marcelo Lieti, head of the Ushuaia Tourism Chamber.Both cruise ships called at the Falklands on Saturday. A P&O Cruises spokesperson said the Adonia, on an 87-day trip which started in Southampton on 13 January, was now on its way to Punta Arenas, Chile. Its 710 British pasengers would get a refund on shore excursions planned for Ushuaia.Princess Cruises said the Star Princess was on a 14-day South American cruise which started in Rio de Janeiro on February 18. The ship is on an 14-night cruise which departed Rio de Janeiro on February 18, 2012.Argenina's president Cristina Kirchner is giving a major address later on Monday to mark the 200th anniversary of the Argentine flag. She was expected to make a major pronouncement on \"the Malvinas\" last week but it was postponed because of a serious train crash in Buenos Aires.The new marine protection area covers more than a million square kilometres (four times the land area of the UK) around disputed overseas territories. The Foreign Office says it would \"further protect the incredibly rich biodiversity of the islands, which has some of the most important and productive fish spawning grounds in the Southern Ocean.\"It added: \"The area is also home to seven species of globally threatened seabirds, including the wandering albatross, and so is of great international importance.\"Foreign office minister Henry Bellingham said: \"The declaration of a marine protected area around South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands clearly demonstrates the UK's effective environmental stewardship of this unique and remote part of the world.\"I am delighted that the UK has been able to demonstrate further evidence of our ongoing commitment to marine conservation and protection of the globally important biodiversity of our overseas territories.\"South Georgia's wildlife recently featured in the BBC's Frozen Planet. Presenter David Attenborough said: \"I am delighted to hear of the decision to create one of the world's largest marine reserves, which will help protect the unique and precious wildlife of South Georgia and Antarctica. This is extremely timely given the dramatic change that the polar regions are currently undergoing.\"An RSPB spokesman said the waters around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \"teem with life\", adding: \"Thankfully, this wealth has long been recognised by the UK and the islands' governments who have implemented forward thinking ways of protecting this richness.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Travel & leisure", "Business", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Argentina turns away UK cruise ships"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-02-27T19:51:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two British cruise liners were turned away from an Argentine port as tensions mounted over the future of the Falkland Islands.The P&O Cruises' ship Adonia and the Princess Cruises' vessel Star Princess were not allowed to dock at Ushuaia on the southern tip of Argentina.The incidents came as Britain's formal announcement of a huge marine protection area around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands threatened to further ratchet up ill-feeling in Buenos Aires.Arturo Puricelli, the Argentine defence minster, said in December when the plans first became clear that it was \"nothing more and nothing less than an attempt under the cover of protecting the environment to usurp a larger area\".His government also regards the deployment of Prince William to the Falklands with the 30th anniversary of the war approaching as provocative.The ships were turned away by application of a Tierra del Fuego law passed six months ago which bans the docking of British military ships or ships involved in \"the exploration or exploitation of natural resources\" in the South Atlantic area.Tierra de Fuego governor Fabiana Rios is said to have applied a wide interpretation of the new law at the request of 1982 war veterans.\"If we mean to cause some damage to the British, we have actually damaged all those who would have worked with that ship today,\" complained Marcelo Lieti, head of the Ushuaia Tourism Chamber.Both cruise ships called at the Falklands on Saturday. A P&O Cruises spokesperson said the Adonia, on an 87-day trip which started in Southampton on 13 January, was now on its way to Punta Arenas, Chile. Its 710 British pasengers would get a refund on shore excursions planned for Ushuaia.Princess Cruises said the Star Princess was on a 14-day South American cruise which started in Rio de Janeiro on February 18. The ship is on an 14-night cruise which departed Rio de Janeiro on February 18, 2012.Argenina's president Cristina Kirchner is giving a major address later on Monday to mark the 200th anniversary of the Argentine flag. She was expected to make a major pronouncement on \"the Malvinas\" last week but it was postponed because of a serious train crash in Buenos Aires.The new marine protection area covers more than a million square kilometres (four times the land area of the UK) around disputed overseas territories. The Foreign Office says it would \"further protect the incredibly rich biodiversity of the islands, which has some of the most important and productive fish spawning grounds in the Southern Ocean.\"It added: \"The area is also home to seven species of globally threatened seabirds, including the wandering albatross, and so is of great international importance.\"Foreign office minister Henry Bellingham said: \"The declaration of a marine protected area around South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands clearly demonstrates the UK's effective environmental stewardship of this unique and remote part of the world.\"I am delighted that the UK has been able to demonstrate further evidence of our ongoing commitment to marine conservation and protection of the globally important biodiversity of our overseas territories.\"South Georgia's wildlife recently featured in the BBC's Frozen Planet. Presenter David Attenborough said: \"I am delighted to hear of the decision to create one of the world's largest marine reserves, which will help protect the unique and precious wildlife of South Georgia and Antarctica. This is extremely timely given the dramatic change that the polar regions are currently undergoing.\"An RSPB spokesman said the waters around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \"teem with life\", adding: \"Thankfully, this wealth has long been recognised by the UK and the islands' governments who have implemented forward thinking ways of protecting this richness.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Travel & leisure", "Business", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Argentina turns away UK cruise ships"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-02-10T18:44:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has lodged a formal protest at the United Nations over Britain's \"militarisation\" of the Falkland Islands, further fuelling the row between London and Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, presented a complaint on Friday to the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, who expressed concern about the increasingly strong exchanges in a summary of the meeting given by his office to reporters.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced the move earlier this week as part of her strategy to internationalise Argentina's campaign over the disputed south Atlantic islands.She said Britain's dispatch of a modern destroyer, HMS Dauntless, to replace an older vessel, as well as Prince William, in his role as a search and rescue helicopter pilot, were provocations and presented a \"grave risk for international security\". Britain said the deployments were routine.She also expressed alarm that Britain may be sending nuclear weapons to the islands, a reference to British media reports that one of the Royal Navy's Trafalgar-class submarines was on its way to the region. The Ministry of Defence said it did not comment on such deployments.Timerman, an energetic advocate of Argentina's grievances, was also due to meet Togolese diplomat Kodjo Menan, who holds the rotating UN security council presidency, and Cuba's ambassador Pedro Nu\u00f1ez Mosquera, head of the UN's decolonisation committee. Later he was expected to address the media.Argentina claims Britain stole the islands, situated 300 miles off the coast of Patagonia, in 1833. Argentina calls the archipelago Las Malvinas.The British ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant, was due to address the media after Timerman's press conference. On Thursday, David Cameron reiterated British sovereignty, saying: \"As long as the people of the Falkland Islands want to maintain that status, we will make sure they do and we will defend the Falkland Islands properly to make sure that's the case.\"Tensions between the two countries have surged in the runup to the 30th anniversary of Falklands war in which a British expeditionary force expelled Argentinian troops.Relations thawed in the 1990s but frosted again in 2010 when British firms started drilling for oil, triggering a diplomatic and commercial squeeze by Argentina's president. She recently convinced much of Latin America to ban ships flying the Falkland Islands flag from their ports.The islands have since experienced shortages of fresh fruit, notably bananas, but otherwise claims to be unaffected. However, it fears Argentina will close its airspace to a weekly commercial flight between Chile and the islands, its main link to south America and the world.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Americas", "UK news", "World news", "United Nations", "Military", "Defence policy", "Politics", "Prince William"], "title": "Britain is militarising Falklands, Argentina tells UN"},{"date": "2012-02-27T19:51:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two British cruise liners were turned away from an Argentine port as tensions mounted over the future of the Falkland Islands.The P&O Cruises' ship Adonia and the Princess Cruises' vessel Star Princess were not allowed to dock at Ushuaia on the southern tip of Argentina.The incidents came as Britain's formal announcement of a huge marine protection area around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands threatened to further ratchet up ill-feeling in Buenos Aires.Arturo Puricelli, the Argentine defence minster, said in December when the plans first became clear that it was \"nothing more and nothing less than an attempt under the cover of protecting the environment to usurp a larger area\".His government also regards the deployment of Prince William to the Falklands with the 30th anniversary of the war approaching as provocative.The ships were turned away by application of a Tierra del Fuego law passed six months ago which bans the docking of British military ships or ships involved in \"the exploration or exploitation of natural resources\" in the South Atlantic area.Tierra de Fuego governor Fabiana Rios is said to have applied a wide interpretation of the new law at the request of 1982 war veterans.\"If we mean to cause some damage to the British, we have actually damaged all those who would have worked with that ship today,\" complained Marcelo Lieti, head of the Ushuaia Tourism Chamber.Both cruise ships called at the Falklands on Saturday. A P&O Cruises spokesperson said the Adonia, on an 87-day trip which started in Southampton on 13 January, was now on its way to Punta Arenas, Chile. Its 710 British pasengers would get a refund on shore excursions planned for Ushuaia.Princess Cruises said the Star Princess was on a 14-day South American cruise which started in Rio de Janeiro on February 18. The ship is on an 14-night cruise which departed Rio de Janeiro on February 18, 2012.Argenina's president Cristina Kirchner is giving a major address later on Monday to mark the 200th anniversary of the Argentine flag. She was expected to make a major pronouncement on \"the Malvinas\" last week but it was postponed because of a serious train crash in Buenos Aires.The new marine protection area covers more than a million square kilometres (four times the land area of the UK) around disputed overseas territories. The Foreign Office says it would \"further protect the incredibly rich biodiversity of the islands, which has some of the most important and productive fish spawning grounds in the Southern Ocean.\"It added: \"The area is also home to seven species of globally threatened seabirds, including the wandering albatross, and so is of great international importance.\"Foreign office minister Henry Bellingham said: \"The declaration of a marine protected area around South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands clearly demonstrates the UK's effective environmental stewardship of this unique and remote part of the world.\"I am delighted that the UK has been able to demonstrate further evidence of our ongoing commitment to marine conservation and protection of the globally important biodiversity of our overseas territories.\"South Georgia's wildlife recently featured in the BBC's Frozen Planet. Presenter David Attenborough said: \"I am delighted to hear of the decision to create one of the world's largest marine reserves, which will help protect the unique and precious wildlife of South Georgia and Antarctica. This is extremely timely given the dramatic change that the polar regions are currently undergoing.\"An RSPB spokesman said the waters around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \"teem with life\", adding: \"Thankfully, this wealth has long been recognised by the UK and the islands' governments who have implemented forward thinking ways of protecting this richness.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Travel & leisure", "Business", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Argentina turns away UK cruise ships"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-02-10T18:44:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has lodged a formal protest at the United Nations over Britain's \"militarisation\" of the Falkland Islands, further fuelling the row between London and Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, presented a complaint on Friday to the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, who expressed concern about the increasingly strong exchanges in a summary of the meeting given by his office to reporters.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced the move earlier this week as part of her strategy to internationalise Argentina's campaign over the disputed south Atlantic islands.She said Britain's dispatch of a modern destroyer, HMS Dauntless, to replace an older vessel, as well as Prince William, in his role as a search and rescue helicopter pilot, were provocations and presented a \"grave risk for international security\". Britain said the deployments were routine.She also expressed alarm that Britain may be sending nuclear weapons to the islands, a reference to British media reports that one of the Royal Navy's Trafalgar-class submarines was on its way to the region. The Ministry of Defence said it did not comment on such deployments.Timerman, an energetic advocate of Argentina's grievances, was also due to meet Togolese diplomat Kodjo Menan, who holds the rotating UN security council presidency, and Cuba's ambassador Pedro Nu\u00f1ez Mosquera, head of the UN's decolonisation committee. Later he was expected to address the media.Argentina claims Britain stole the islands, situated 300 miles off the coast of Patagonia, in 1833. Argentina calls the archipelago Las Malvinas.The British ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant, was due to address the media after Timerman's press conference. On Thursday, David Cameron reiterated British sovereignty, saying: \"As long as the people of the Falkland Islands want to maintain that status, we will make sure they do and we will defend the Falkland Islands properly to make sure that's the case.\"Tensions between the two countries have surged in the runup to the 30th anniversary of Falklands war in which a British expeditionary force expelled Argentinian troops.Relations thawed in the 1990s but frosted again in 2010 when British firms started drilling for oil, triggering a diplomatic and commercial squeeze by Argentina's president. She recently convinced much of Latin America to ban ships flying the Falkland Islands flag from their ports.The islands have since experienced shortages of fresh fruit, notably bananas, but otherwise claims to be unaffected. However, it fears Argentina will close its airspace to a weekly commercial flight between Chile and the islands, its main link to south America and the world.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Americas", "UK news", "World news", "United Nations", "Military", "Defence policy", "Politics", "Prince William"], "title": "Britain is militarising Falklands, Argentina tells UN"},{"date": "2012-02-01T17:13:17Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "British diplomats have accused Argentina of plotting an economic blockade of the Falklands amid fears that Buenos Aires is attempting to stop all flights from Chile reaching the islands.The government of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has publicly threatened to halt the weekly flight operated by a Chilean-owned airline between Punta Arenas and Port Stanley.It is the islands' only air link with South America and their main connection with the outside world. British officials believe the service will disappear in an attempt by Argentina to make the Falklands too expensive for Britain to maintain.\"If the LAN Chile flight is cancelled it would be pretty difficult to resist the already credible thesis that there is an economic blockade of the civilian population of the Falklands,\" said a senior British diplomat in the region on Wednesday.The move, which diplomats predicted would come soon, would further isolate the disputed island chain and ratchet up tension with London on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the war between Argentina and Britain.British officials said that if LAN resisted, Argentina would simply ban the use of its airspace.Fern\u00e1ndez signalled the escalation in a speech to the UN last September, when she said Buenos Aires might block the flights, negotiated during a thaw in relations in 1999, if David Cameron's government refused to discuss sovereignty of the islands \u2013 which Argentina refers to as Las Malvinas. \"We'll wait a little longer, but otherwise we'll be forced to review the standing provisional agreements,\" she said.Cameron has continued to refuse to hold talks and recently angered the Argentinian government by accusing it of \"colonialism\" in its campaign to win back the islands. Argentina says Britain stole the territory, 300 miles off its south Atlantic coast, in 1833.Argentinian commentators reported last week that Buenos Aires was squeezing LAN, a view which is shared by British officials. The cancellation of the route would leave the Falklands entirely dependent on the twice-weekly 8,000-mile military flight from London via Ascension Island, a volcanic island near the equator.Barry Elsby, a member of the Falkland Islands' legislative assembly, said: \"This has been rumbling for many months. It's a possibility we live with on a daily basis. It would be sad, especially for the Chileans who work and live here, because they would have to leave. And it would be a shame for a nation like Chile to be dictated to.\"Instead of a 560-mile flight home to southern Chile, the islands' estimated 250 Chileans would have to travel via London.Elsby said relatives of Argentina's 600 war dead would also suffer by losing cemetery visits. Once a month the LAN flights stop in Rio Gallegos, Argentina.He played down the economic and political implications of the 3,000-strong population losing its main link to the outside world. \"It would be an inconvenience but nothing that would harm the Falklands,\" he said.Others have been less sanguine and warned of damage to tourism and exports.The row puts LAN, which has one of the region's biggest fleets of aircraft, and Chile's conservative president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, in an awkward position. Neither can be seen to bow to a neighbour's bullying, but there is commercial pressure for an accommodation.The Falkland Islands flights are a profitable but tiny part of operations for LAN, which requires Argentinian co-operation for much of its international business. The airline, which Pi\u00f1era part-owned before becoming president, has been unsuccessfully seeking permission from Argentina for a Buenos Aires to Miami flight.Argentina has cancelled landing rights at Aeroparque, the capital's domestic airport, for LAN's flights from the Chilean capital, Santiago, and S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil. It has transferred these to Ezeiza, the city's international airport, a major drawback for LAN because it is farther outside the city and deters potential passengers. Chilean commentators speculated this was done to gain leverage over the airline.Fern\u00e1ndez is understood to have raised the issue of Falklands flights with Pi\u00f1era during a UN meeting in New York last September. She was expected to do so again earlier this month in Santiago, but the visit was pushed back because of her thyroid treatment.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Chile"], "title": "Argentina accused of plotting Falklands blockade"},{"date": "2012-02-27T19:51:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two British cruise liners were turned away from an Argentine port as tensions mounted over the future of the Falkland Islands.The P&O Cruises' ship Adonia and the Princess Cruises' vessel Star Princess were not allowed to dock at Ushuaia on the southern tip of Argentina.The incidents came as Britain's formal announcement of a huge marine protection area around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands threatened to further ratchet up ill-feeling in Buenos Aires.Arturo Puricelli, the Argentine defence minster, said in December when the plans first became clear that it was \"nothing more and nothing less than an attempt under the cover of protecting the environment to usurp a larger area\".His government also regards the deployment of Prince William to the Falklands with the 30th anniversary of the war approaching as provocative.The ships were turned away by application of a Tierra del Fuego law passed six months ago which bans the docking of British military ships or ships involved in \"the exploration or exploitation of natural resources\" in the South Atlantic area.Tierra de Fuego governor Fabiana Rios is said to have applied a wide interpretation of the new law at the request of 1982 war veterans.\"If we mean to cause some damage to the British, we have actually damaged all those who would have worked with that ship today,\" complained Marcelo Lieti, head of the Ushuaia Tourism Chamber.Both cruise ships called at the Falklands on Saturday. A P&O Cruises spokesperson said the Adonia, on an 87-day trip which started in Southampton on 13 January, was now on its way to Punta Arenas, Chile. Its 710 British pasengers would get a refund on shore excursions planned for Ushuaia.Princess Cruises said the Star Princess was on a 14-day South American cruise which started in Rio de Janeiro on February 18. The ship is on an 14-night cruise which departed Rio de Janeiro on February 18, 2012.Argenina's president Cristina Kirchner is giving a major address later on Monday to mark the 200th anniversary of the Argentine flag. She was expected to make a major pronouncement on \"the Malvinas\" last week but it was postponed because of a serious train crash in Buenos Aires.The new marine protection area covers more than a million square kilometres (four times the land area of the UK) around disputed overseas territories. The Foreign Office says it would \"further protect the incredibly rich biodiversity of the islands, which has some of the most important and productive fish spawning grounds in the Southern Ocean.\"It added: \"The area is also home to seven species of globally threatened seabirds, including the wandering albatross, and so is of great international importance.\"Foreign office minister Henry Bellingham said: \"The declaration of a marine protected area around South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands clearly demonstrates the UK's effective environmental stewardship of this unique and remote part of the world.\"I am delighted that the UK has been able to demonstrate further evidence of our ongoing commitment to marine conservation and protection of the globally important biodiversity of our overseas territories.\"South Georgia's wildlife recently featured in the BBC's Frozen Planet. Presenter David Attenborough said: \"I am delighted to hear of the decision to create one of the world's largest marine reserves, which will help protect the unique and precious wildlife of South Georgia and Antarctica. This is extremely timely given the dramatic change that the polar regions are currently undergoing.\"An RSPB spokesman said the waters around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \"teem with life\", adding: \"Thankfully, this wealth has long been recognised by the UK and the islands' governments who have implemented forward thinking ways of protecting this richness.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Travel & leisure", "Business", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Argentina turns away UK cruise ships"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-02-10T18:44:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has lodged a formal protest at the United Nations over Britain's \"militarisation\" of the Falkland Islands, further fuelling the row between London and Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, presented a complaint on Friday to the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, who expressed concern about the increasingly strong exchanges in a summary of the meeting given by his office to reporters.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced the move earlier this week as part of her strategy to internationalise Argentina's campaign over the disputed south Atlantic islands.She said Britain's dispatch of a modern destroyer, HMS Dauntless, to replace an older vessel, as well as Prince William, in his role as a search and rescue helicopter pilot, were provocations and presented a \"grave risk for international security\". Britain said the deployments were routine.She also expressed alarm that Britain may be sending nuclear weapons to the islands, a reference to British media reports that one of the Royal Navy's Trafalgar-class submarines was on its way to the region. The Ministry of Defence said it did not comment on such deployments.Timerman, an energetic advocate of Argentina's grievances, was also due to meet Togolese diplomat Kodjo Menan, who holds the rotating UN security council presidency, and Cuba's ambassador Pedro Nu\u00f1ez Mosquera, head of the UN's decolonisation committee. Later he was expected to address the media.Argentina claims Britain stole the islands, situated 300 miles off the coast of Patagonia, in 1833. Argentina calls the archipelago Las Malvinas.The British ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant, was due to address the media after Timerman's press conference. On Thursday, David Cameron reiterated British sovereignty, saying: \"As long as the people of the Falkland Islands want to maintain that status, we will make sure they do and we will defend the Falkland Islands properly to make sure that's the case.\"Tensions between the two countries have surged in the runup to the 30th anniversary of Falklands war in which a British expeditionary force expelled Argentinian troops.Relations thawed in the 1990s but frosted again in 2010 when British firms started drilling for oil, triggering a diplomatic and commercial squeeze by Argentina's president. She recently convinced much of Latin America to ban ships flying the Falkland Islands flag from their ports.The islands have since experienced shortages of fresh fruit, notably bananas, but otherwise claims to be unaffected. However, it fears Argentina will close its airspace to a weekly commercial flight between Chile and the islands, its main link to south America and the world.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Americas", "UK news", "World news", "United Nations", "Military", "Defence policy", "Politics", "Prince William"], "title": "Britain is militarising Falklands, Argentina tells UN"},{"date": "2012-02-01T17:13:17Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "British diplomats have accused Argentina of plotting an economic blockade of the Falklands amid fears that Buenos Aires is attempting to stop all flights from Chile reaching the islands.The government of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has publicly threatened to halt the weekly flight operated by a Chilean-owned airline between Punta Arenas and Port Stanley.It is the islands' only air link with South America and their main connection with the outside world. British officials believe the service will disappear in an attempt by Argentina to make the Falklands too expensive for Britain to maintain.\"If the LAN Chile flight is cancelled it would be pretty difficult to resist the already credible thesis that there is an economic blockade of the civilian population of the Falklands,\" said a senior British diplomat in the region on Wednesday.The move, which diplomats predicted would come soon, would further isolate the disputed island chain and ratchet up tension with London on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the war between Argentina and Britain.British officials said that if LAN resisted, Argentina would simply ban the use of its airspace.Fern\u00e1ndez signalled the escalation in a speech to the UN last September, when she said Buenos Aires might block the flights, negotiated during a thaw in relations in 1999, if David Cameron's government refused to discuss sovereignty of the islands \u2013 which Argentina refers to as Las Malvinas. \"We'll wait a little longer, but otherwise we'll be forced to review the standing provisional agreements,\" she said.Cameron has continued to refuse to hold talks and recently angered the Argentinian government by accusing it of \"colonialism\" in its campaign to win back the islands. Argentina says Britain stole the territory, 300 miles off its south Atlantic coast, in 1833.Argentinian commentators reported last week that Buenos Aires was squeezing LAN, a view which is shared by British officials. The cancellation of the route would leave the Falklands entirely dependent on the twice-weekly 8,000-mile military flight from London via Ascension Island, a volcanic island near the equator.Barry Elsby, a member of the Falkland Islands' legislative assembly, said: \"This has been rumbling for many months. It's a possibility we live with on a daily basis. It would be sad, especially for the Chileans who work and live here, because they would have to leave. And it would be a shame for a nation like Chile to be dictated to.\"Instead of a 560-mile flight home to southern Chile, the islands' estimated 250 Chileans would have to travel via London.Elsby said relatives of Argentina's 600 war dead would also suffer by losing cemetery visits. Once a month the LAN flights stop in Rio Gallegos, Argentina.He played down the economic and political implications of the 3,000-strong population losing its main link to the outside world. \"It would be an inconvenience but nothing that would harm the Falklands,\" he said.Others have been less sanguine and warned of damage to tourism and exports.The row puts LAN, which has one of the region's biggest fleets of aircraft, and Chile's conservative president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, in an awkward position. Neither can be seen to bow to a neighbour's bullying, but there is commercial pressure for an accommodation.The Falkland Islands flights are a profitable but tiny part of operations for LAN, which requires Argentinian co-operation for much of its international business. The airline, which Pi\u00f1era part-owned before becoming president, has been unsuccessfully seeking permission from Argentina for a Buenos Aires to Miami flight.Argentina has cancelled landing rights at Aeroparque, the capital's domestic airport, for LAN's flights from the Chilean capital, Santiago, and S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil. It has transferred these to Ezeiza, the city's international airport, a major drawback for LAN because it is farther outside the city and deters potential passengers. Chilean commentators speculated this was done to gain leverage over the airline.Fern\u00e1ndez is understood to have raised the issue of Falklands flights with Pi\u00f1era during a UN meeting in New York last September. She was expected to do so again earlier this month in Santiago, but the visit was pushed back because of her thyroid treatment.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Chile"], "title": "Argentina accused of plotting Falklands blockade"},{"date": "2012-01-27T23:02:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Waiting at the gate to board the flight to Buenos Aires, an awful sense of disquiet creeps upon me. I'm making a huge mistake. I'm flying to Argentina for a week, on my own, to learn to dance the Argentine tango. What the hell am I doing? I\u00a0don't speak a word of Spanish. I\u00a0haven't danced a choreographed step since 1982, when I tapped non-rhythmically along to The Red, Red Robin in a community centre. The only things I know about Argentina are that it's very far away, we went to war with them once, and years ago I saw a film where their king appeared to be Jimmy Nail. And, worst of all, the Argentine tango (I've checked with YouTube) is a complex dance, built on instinct, litheness and a\u00a0non-coy Latin American attitude to sensual proximity to strangers. I,\u00a0on the other hand, am fully British in my dispensation of body contact. Grab me without permission and I go rigid and show fangs, like a tomcat being forced into a pet carrier.As my flight is called, the terror of a week at the Tango Escuela de Carlos Copello begins to take hold. Copello is a born-and-bred tanguero. His website is full of shots of women chucking their ankles over his shoulders and dancing with their bodies wrapped round his, their faces tucked intimately into his neck or gazing deeply into his eyes. \"I feel a\u00a0bit like crying,\" I\u00a0confess pathetically to the Argentinian businessman stuck beside me and my anxieties for 13 long-haul hours.\"Oh, don't worry,\" he says, unfazed. \"Everyone cries in Argentina. You'll fit in well. We're very dramatic people.\"As it turns out, I do fit in rather well. Buenos Aires is beautiful, hot and glamorous, and the malbec is plentiful enough to make me feel roughly similar. I arrive at dawn on a bright November morning and jump into a dirt-cheap yellow cab that sneaks me into the well-heeled Recoleta district, to Algodon Mansions, which is going to be my home for the week and which slightly ruins any future trips to Argentina \u2013 the suites are enormous, with showers that fit at least a dozen people (I estimate; I couldn't get a crowd large enough to test this) and attended to by 24-hour butlers. There is also a balcony full of flora and fauna on which my own chorus of birds gathers to chirp each morning while I eat pain au chocolat, the back of my hand resting on my forehead like a 1930s movie starlet as I wonder at what time it is polite to crack into the Algodon Estates pinot noir.November and December are good months to be in Buenos Aires. The weather is warm, not yet searing, and the polo season is in full swing, as the pilgrimage of ruddy-cheeked, expat Prince Harry-alikes bumbling through the airport will denote. Do spend a Saturday afternoon at the Campo Argentine del Polo watching men on horses being macho, then carry on to after-parties in Palermo Hollywood with the great and good of Argentina's equestrian-obsessed party rabble. If you've read Jilly Cooper, you'll know what goes on.Take a tolerant credit card and flat shoes for shopping in Patio Bullrich and Arand\u00fa (think Ibiza Town married with Knightsbridge) and pack clothes made of stretchable fabrics because you'll consume too many steaks, brioche-based pies and cocktails. Do pack bug repellant: the mosquitos are silent, invisible, industrious buggers who adore sweet British skin. And definitely, definitely try to learn tango.I say the latter part with hindsight. On day one of lessons with Carlos Copello, stood in a dance studio, watching the Argentinians pass round a cup of mate (the never-ending communal equivalent of tea), wearing my stupid tango shoes \u2013 too low to be glamorous, too high to be practical, so truly useless \u2013 I\u00a0want to run away. Carlos seems to sense I'm going to be trouble from the moment he explains that tango is a dance where the man leads, the man makes all the decisions and that \u2013 unless you want to be seen as either insane or a sex-crazed harpy \u2013 a woman never suggests a dance and monitors her eye contact with men.\"Pghhhgh,\" I say, a sound of feminist dissent I find is usually understood in all languages.We begin with \"the basic step\", the one that carries two people round a dancefloor clockwise. Facing Carlos, my role goes: left foot forward, right sweeps to the side, two quick steps back, leaving left crossing right, right foot back, left sweeps across and both feet together. Repeat. It takes me two hours of stepping on Carlos's shoes and being moaned at to master this. Two of the most excruciating hours of my life. I\u00a0can do the feet. I can even do \"ochos\", the twirly-feet steps that abbreviate the basic step. What I can't do is let Carlos lead while I wrap around him, pulling a distant, yet vaguely lustful expression. He seems furious at even the slightest hint of authority in my body language. \"Tranquilo,\" he says, 275 times in the first lesson. I'm supposed to be looking into his eyes, or have my head tucked sensuously into his neck. To me, this feels wrong. In Britain, the only time someone touches you so tenderly, they're either your official \"other half\", someone you're about to get off with, or you're being sexually molested. So how come everyone else at tango school just gets on with it? I can't unlearn decades of social conditioning overnight, but I\u00a0had better bloody well try if I don't want to be the pale English wallflower with the cat's bum mouth for the next seven days.Days pass, as do my jet lag and my feeling of pointless anxiety. I'm paired with Carlos's son, Maxi, a strapping, 6ft 2in twentysomething with large, hazel eyes and broad shoulders. He begins lessons with long periods of making me gaze into his eyes and hum along to the music, so we are \"sensing the rhythms in each other's bodies\". Oddly enough, dancing with someone so gorgeous and whom I\u00a0have no aversion to whisking me around the floor like a\u00a0compliant rag doll makes things much jollier. A small flash of tanguero spirit takes hold \u2013 the music, the flamboyance, the leg kicks, the ability to grab a stranger and dance for four minutes emitting the vibes that you're wildly in love, then turn on a heel and walk off. Suddenly, it all begins to make more sense. If you let go, float above your British worry and shame, and begin dancing round and round the floor, tango will grip you like a fever.By day three, the tutors roar with glee as I dance rather proficiently, pulling the trademark Argentinian face of aloof, undying love. I take group lessons, solo lessons and technical classes that explain precisely what muscle should be working where and when. By day five, I think nothing of venturing out into the rush hour traffic to dance with Carlos for a photoshoot. I don't care, and the passersby don't, either. Everyone is quite dramatic in Argentina \u2013 my travel companion on the flight out was right.I miss Buenos Aires desperately. My tango shoes sit expectantly under my bed in wintery east London. I'm still 99% stiffly British, but now with a tiny touch of tanguero madness lying dormant in my soul.\u2022 Grace Dent travelled with Latin American specialists Dehouche on their Tango Experience. Seven nights at Algodon Mansion, including five private lessons at Tango Escuela Carlos Copello, three group classes and a Rojo Tango show, starts from \u00a33,200pp, including return flights with British Airways.\u2022 WIN: Belly-dancing lessons in Morocco. For full details of the holiday on offer, plus how to enter the competition and full terms and conditions, go to weekend travel competition", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Grace Dent learns to tango in Argentina"},{"date": "2012-02-27T19:51:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two British cruise liners were turned away from an Argentine port as tensions mounted over the future of the Falkland Islands.The P&O Cruises' ship Adonia and the Princess Cruises' vessel Star Princess were not allowed to dock at Ushuaia on the southern tip of Argentina.The incidents came as Britain's formal announcement of a huge marine protection area around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands threatened to further ratchet up ill-feeling in Buenos Aires.Arturo Puricelli, the Argentine defence minster, said in December when the plans first became clear that it was \"nothing more and nothing less than an attempt under the cover of protecting the environment to usurp a larger area\".His government also regards the deployment of Prince William to the Falklands with the 30th anniversary of the war approaching as provocative.The ships were turned away by application of a Tierra del Fuego law passed six months ago which bans the docking of British military ships or ships involved in \"the exploration or exploitation of natural resources\" in the South Atlantic area.Tierra de Fuego governor Fabiana Rios is said to have applied a wide interpretation of the new law at the request of 1982 war veterans.\"If we mean to cause some damage to the British, we have actually damaged all those who would have worked with that ship today,\" complained Marcelo Lieti, head of the Ushuaia Tourism Chamber.Both cruise ships called at the Falklands on Saturday. A P&O Cruises spokesperson said the Adonia, on an 87-day trip which started in Southampton on 13 January, was now on its way to Punta Arenas, Chile. Its 710 British pasengers would get a refund on shore excursions planned for Ushuaia.Princess Cruises said the Star Princess was on a 14-day South American cruise which started in Rio de Janeiro on February 18. The ship is on an 14-night cruise which departed Rio de Janeiro on February 18, 2012.Argenina's president Cristina Kirchner is giving a major address later on Monday to mark the 200th anniversary of the Argentine flag. She was expected to make a major pronouncement on \"the Malvinas\" last week but it was postponed because of a serious train crash in Buenos Aires.The new marine protection area covers more than a million square kilometres (four times the land area of the UK) around disputed overseas territories. The Foreign Office says it would \"further protect the incredibly rich biodiversity of the islands, which has some of the most important and productive fish spawning grounds in the Southern Ocean.\"It added: \"The area is also home to seven species of globally threatened seabirds, including the wandering albatross, and so is of great international importance.\"Foreign office minister Henry Bellingham said: \"The declaration of a marine protected area around South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands clearly demonstrates the UK's effective environmental stewardship of this unique and remote part of the world.\"I am delighted that the UK has been able to demonstrate further evidence of our ongoing commitment to marine conservation and protection of the globally important biodiversity of our overseas territories.\"South Georgia's wildlife recently featured in the BBC's Frozen Planet. Presenter David Attenborough said: \"I am delighted to hear of the decision to create one of the world's largest marine reserves, which will help protect the unique and precious wildlife of South Georgia and Antarctica. This is extremely timely given the dramatic change that the polar regions are currently undergoing.\"An RSPB spokesman said the waters around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \"teem with life\", adding: \"Thankfully, this wealth has long been recognised by the UK and the islands' governments who have implemented forward thinking ways of protecting this richness.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Travel & leisure", "Business", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Argentina turns away UK cruise ships"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-02-10T18:44:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has lodged a formal protest at the United Nations over Britain's \"militarisation\" of the Falkland Islands, further fuelling the row between London and Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, presented a complaint on Friday to the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, who expressed concern about the increasingly strong exchanges in a summary of the meeting given by his office to reporters.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced the move earlier this week as part of her strategy to internationalise Argentina's campaign over the disputed south Atlantic islands.She said Britain's dispatch of a modern destroyer, HMS Dauntless, to replace an older vessel, as well as Prince William, in his role as a search and rescue helicopter pilot, were provocations and presented a \"grave risk for international security\". Britain said the deployments were routine.She also expressed alarm that Britain may be sending nuclear weapons to the islands, a reference to British media reports that one of the Royal Navy's Trafalgar-class submarines was on its way to the region. The Ministry of Defence said it did not comment on such deployments.Timerman, an energetic advocate of Argentina's grievances, was also due to meet Togolese diplomat Kodjo Menan, who holds the rotating UN security council presidency, and Cuba's ambassador Pedro Nu\u00f1ez Mosquera, head of the UN's decolonisation committee. Later he was expected to address the media.Argentina claims Britain stole the islands, situated 300 miles off the coast of Patagonia, in 1833. Argentina calls the archipelago Las Malvinas.The British ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant, was due to address the media after Timerman's press conference. On Thursday, David Cameron reiterated British sovereignty, saying: \"As long as the people of the Falkland Islands want to maintain that status, we will make sure they do and we will defend the Falkland Islands properly to make sure that's the case.\"Tensions between the two countries have surged in the runup to the 30th anniversary of Falklands war in which a British expeditionary force expelled Argentinian troops.Relations thawed in the 1990s but frosted again in 2010 when British firms started drilling for oil, triggering a diplomatic and commercial squeeze by Argentina's president. She recently convinced much of Latin America to ban ships flying the Falkland Islands flag from their ports.The islands have since experienced shortages of fresh fruit, notably bananas, but otherwise claims to be unaffected. However, it fears Argentina will close its airspace to a weekly commercial flight between Chile and the islands, its main link to south America and the world.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Americas", "UK news", "World news", "United Nations", "Military", "Defence policy", "Politics", "Prince William"], "title": "Britain is militarising Falklands, Argentina tells UN"},{"date": "2012-02-01T17:13:17Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "British diplomats have accused Argentina of plotting an economic blockade of the Falklands amid fears that Buenos Aires is attempting to stop all flights from Chile reaching the islands.The government of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has publicly threatened to halt the weekly flight operated by a Chilean-owned airline between Punta Arenas and Port Stanley.It is the islands' only air link with South America and their main connection with the outside world. British officials believe the service will disappear in an attempt by Argentina to make the Falklands too expensive for Britain to maintain.\"If the LAN Chile flight is cancelled it would be pretty difficult to resist the already credible thesis that there is an economic blockade of the civilian population of the Falklands,\" said a senior British diplomat in the region on Wednesday.The move, which diplomats predicted would come soon, would further isolate the disputed island chain and ratchet up tension with London on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the war between Argentina and Britain.British officials said that if LAN resisted, Argentina would simply ban the use of its airspace.Fern\u00e1ndez signalled the escalation in a speech to the UN last September, when she said Buenos Aires might block the flights, negotiated during a thaw in relations in 1999, if David Cameron's government refused to discuss sovereignty of the islands \u2013 which Argentina refers to as Las Malvinas. \"We'll wait a little longer, but otherwise we'll be forced to review the standing provisional agreements,\" she said.Cameron has continued to refuse to hold talks and recently angered the Argentinian government by accusing it of \"colonialism\" in its campaign to win back the islands. Argentina says Britain stole the territory, 300 miles off its south Atlantic coast, in 1833.Argentinian commentators reported last week that Buenos Aires was squeezing LAN, a view which is shared by British officials. The cancellation of the route would leave the Falklands entirely dependent on the twice-weekly 8,000-mile military flight from London via Ascension Island, a volcanic island near the equator.Barry Elsby, a member of the Falkland Islands' legislative assembly, said: \"This has been rumbling for many months. It's a possibility we live with on a daily basis. It would be sad, especially for the Chileans who work and live here, because they would have to leave. And it would be a shame for a nation like Chile to be dictated to.\"Instead of a 560-mile flight home to southern Chile, the islands' estimated 250 Chileans would have to travel via London.Elsby said relatives of Argentina's 600 war dead would also suffer by losing cemetery visits. Once a month the LAN flights stop in Rio Gallegos, Argentina.He played down the economic and political implications of the 3,000-strong population losing its main link to the outside world. \"It would be an inconvenience but nothing that would harm the Falklands,\" he said.Others have been less sanguine and warned of damage to tourism and exports.The row puts LAN, which has one of the region's biggest fleets of aircraft, and Chile's conservative president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, in an awkward position. Neither can be seen to bow to a neighbour's bullying, but there is commercial pressure for an accommodation.The Falkland Islands flights are a profitable but tiny part of operations for LAN, which requires Argentinian co-operation for much of its international business. The airline, which Pi\u00f1era part-owned before becoming president, has been unsuccessfully seeking permission from Argentina for a Buenos Aires to Miami flight.Argentina has cancelled landing rights at Aeroparque, the capital's domestic airport, for LAN's flights from the Chilean capital, Santiago, and S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil. It has transferred these to Ezeiza, the city's international airport, a major drawback for LAN because it is farther outside the city and deters potential passengers. Chilean commentators speculated this was done to gain leverage over the airline.Fern\u00e1ndez is understood to have raised the issue of Falklands flights with Pi\u00f1era during a UN meeting in New York last September. She was expected to do so again earlier this month in Santiago, but the visit was pushed back because of her thyroid treatment.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Chile"], "title": "Argentina accused of plotting Falklands blockade"},{"date": "2012-01-27T23:02:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Waiting at the gate to board the flight to Buenos Aires, an awful sense of disquiet creeps upon me. I'm making a huge mistake. I'm flying to Argentina for a week, on my own, to learn to dance the Argentine tango. What the hell am I doing? I\u00a0don't speak a word of Spanish. I\u00a0haven't danced a choreographed step since 1982, when I tapped non-rhythmically along to The Red, Red Robin in a community centre. The only things I know about Argentina are that it's very far away, we went to war with them once, and years ago I saw a film where their king appeared to be Jimmy Nail. And, worst of all, the Argentine tango (I've checked with YouTube) is a complex dance, built on instinct, litheness and a\u00a0non-coy Latin American attitude to sensual proximity to strangers. I,\u00a0on the other hand, am fully British in my dispensation of body contact. Grab me without permission and I go rigid and show fangs, like a tomcat being forced into a pet carrier.As my flight is called, the terror of a week at the Tango Escuela de Carlos Copello begins to take hold. Copello is a born-and-bred tanguero. His website is full of shots of women chucking their ankles over his shoulders and dancing with their bodies wrapped round his, their faces tucked intimately into his neck or gazing deeply into his eyes. \"I feel a\u00a0bit like crying,\" I\u00a0confess pathetically to the Argentinian businessman stuck beside me and my anxieties for 13 long-haul hours.\"Oh, don't worry,\" he says, unfazed. \"Everyone cries in Argentina. You'll fit in well. We're very dramatic people.\"As it turns out, I do fit in rather well. Buenos Aires is beautiful, hot and glamorous, and the malbec is plentiful enough to make me feel roughly similar. I arrive at dawn on a bright November morning and jump into a dirt-cheap yellow cab that sneaks me into the well-heeled Recoleta district, to Algodon Mansions, which is going to be my home for the week and which slightly ruins any future trips to Argentina \u2013 the suites are enormous, with showers that fit at least a dozen people (I estimate; I couldn't get a crowd large enough to test this) and attended to by 24-hour butlers. There is also a balcony full of flora and fauna on which my own chorus of birds gathers to chirp each morning while I eat pain au chocolat, the back of my hand resting on my forehead like a 1930s movie starlet as I wonder at what time it is polite to crack into the Algodon Estates pinot noir.November and December are good months to be in Buenos Aires. The weather is warm, not yet searing, and the polo season is in full swing, as the pilgrimage of ruddy-cheeked, expat Prince Harry-alikes bumbling through the airport will denote. Do spend a Saturday afternoon at the Campo Argentine del Polo watching men on horses being macho, then carry on to after-parties in Palermo Hollywood with the great and good of Argentina's equestrian-obsessed party rabble. If you've read Jilly Cooper, you'll know what goes on.Take a tolerant credit card and flat shoes for shopping in Patio Bullrich and Arand\u00fa (think Ibiza Town married with Knightsbridge) and pack clothes made of stretchable fabrics because you'll consume too many steaks, brioche-based pies and cocktails. Do pack bug repellant: the mosquitos are silent, invisible, industrious buggers who adore sweet British skin. And definitely, definitely try to learn tango.I say the latter part with hindsight. On day one of lessons with Carlos Copello, stood in a dance studio, watching the Argentinians pass round a cup of mate (the never-ending communal equivalent of tea), wearing my stupid tango shoes \u2013 too low to be glamorous, too high to be practical, so truly useless \u2013 I\u00a0want to run away. Carlos seems to sense I'm going to be trouble from the moment he explains that tango is a dance where the man leads, the man makes all the decisions and that \u2013 unless you want to be seen as either insane or a sex-crazed harpy \u2013 a woman never suggests a dance and monitors her eye contact with men.\"Pghhhgh,\" I say, a sound of feminist dissent I find is usually understood in all languages.We begin with \"the basic step\", the one that carries two people round a dancefloor clockwise. Facing Carlos, my role goes: left foot forward, right sweeps to the side, two quick steps back, leaving left crossing right, right foot back, left sweeps across and both feet together. Repeat. It takes me two hours of stepping on Carlos's shoes and being moaned at to master this. Two of the most excruciating hours of my life. I\u00a0can do the feet. I can even do \"ochos\", the twirly-feet steps that abbreviate the basic step. What I can't do is let Carlos lead while I wrap around him, pulling a distant, yet vaguely lustful expression. He seems furious at even the slightest hint of authority in my body language. \"Tranquilo,\" he says, 275 times in the first lesson. I'm supposed to be looking into his eyes, or have my head tucked sensuously into his neck. To me, this feels wrong. In Britain, the only time someone touches you so tenderly, they're either your official \"other half\", someone you're about to get off with, or you're being sexually molested. So how come everyone else at tango school just gets on with it? I can't unlearn decades of social conditioning overnight, but I\u00a0had better bloody well try if I don't want to be the pale English wallflower with the cat's bum mouth for the next seven days.Days pass, as do my jet lag and my feeling of pointless anxiety. I'm paired with Carlos's son, Maxi, a strapping, 6ft 2in twentysomething with large, hazel eyes and broad shoulders. He begins lessons with long periods of making me gaze into his eyes and hum along to the music, so we are \"sensing the rhythms in each other's bodies\". Oddly enough, dancing with someone so gorgeous and whom I\u00a0have no aversion to whisking me around the floor like a\u00a0compliant rag doll makes things much jollier. A small flash of tanguero spirit takes hold \u2013 the music, the flamboyance, the leg kicks, the ability to grab a stranger and dance for four minutes emitting the vibes that you're wildly in love, then turn on a heel and walk off. Suddenly, it all begins to make more sense. If you let go, float above your British worry and shame, and begin dancing round and round the floor, tango will grip you like a fever.By day three, the tutors roar with glee as I dance rather proficiently, pulling the trademark Argentinian face of aloof, undying love. I take group lessons, solo lessons and technical classes that explain precisely what muscle should be working where and when. By day five, I think nothing of venturing out into the rush hour traffic to dance with Carlos for a photoshoot. I don't care, and the passersby don't, either. Everyone is quite dramatic in Argentina \u2013 my travel companion on the flight out was right.I miss Buenos Aires desperately. My tango shoes sit expectantly under my bed in wintery east London. I'm still 99% stiffly British, but now with a tiny touch of tanguero madness lying dormant in my soul.\u2022 Grace Dent travelled with Latin American specialists Dehouche on their Tango Experience. Seven nights at Algodon Mansion, including five private lessons at Tango Escuela Carlos Copello, three group classes and a Rojo Tango show, starts from \u00a33,200pp, including return flights with British Airways.\u2022 WIN: Belly-dancing lessons in Morocco. For full details of the holiday on offer, plus how to enter the competition and full terms and conditions, go to weekend travel competition", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Grace Dent learns to tango in Argentina"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:27:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A pregnant British woman who was arrested on suspicion of smuggling cocaine through a South American airport has won her high court battle against extradition to Argentina on human rights grounds.The highly unusual decision to allow the appeal by Lucy Wright, from Bolton, was granted on the grounds that she might be subjected to \"inhuman or degrading\" prison conditions.The judgment comes at a time of heightened tension over the future of the Falklands Islands with Argentina encouraging other Latin American countries to turn away British shipping.The case also represents a relatively rare example of English judges blocking an extradition request \u2013 a process that has become increasingly politically sensitive.Wright, in her late 20s, had pledged to plead guilty to cocaine smuggling charges if her extradition to South America was halted and she was tried in the UK.Two judges in London allowed her appeal against extradition on the basis that it would infringe her right not to be subjected to \"inhuman and degrading treatment\" under article three of the European convention on human rights (ECHR). If removed, she could expect to receive a sentence in Argentina of up to 16 years, the high court heard.Sir John Thomas, president of the Queen's Bench Division, sitting with Mr Justice Silber, stressed they had decided the case on its specific facts, including a lack of undertakings from Argentina relating to the prison conditions she could expect to face.They stressed there was \"no basis whatsoever for assuming or believing\" that future attempts by the government of Argentina to obtain extradition orders would fail.Silber said: \"Our decision may well have been different if the government of Argentina had adduced proper evidence or given undertakings.\"Thomas emphasised with Silber that the challenge could not have succeeded in relation to countries which are a party to the ECHR.Lawyers for Wright had argued there was a real risk her human rights would be violated if she was sent back to Argentina, where prison conditions were \"inhuman and degrading\".Wright was arrested at Buenos Aires airport allegedly in the act of smuggling nearly 6.32kg (14lb) of cocaine on 14 March 2007. She fled home after she was allowed bail.If she had lost her battle against extradition, her removal would not have taken place until after the birth of her child, who would then have been looked after by a sister. Her lawyers argued there was UN evidence of \"systemic human rights violations\" in Argentina's women's penal institutions.Alun Jones QC, appearing for Wright, said she could expect to be held in custody for over two years awaiting trial, even if she pleaded guilty. She could then expect to serve any subsequent sentence in inhuman and degrading conditions, violating article three of the ECHR.In interviews, Wright has described herself as a nursing student who came to London from Bolton with her boyfriend to start a nursing degree.When the relationship ended she became very depressed and tried to kill herself, and then a drug dealer got her addicted to crack cocaine. After she ran up massive debts, the dealer offered her \u00a310,000 to smuggle cocaine.At Buenos Aires airport, she was stopped with a suitcase containing the cocaine. She was bailed the following day and fled to the UK via Brazil where she reported her passport lost and got a replacement from the British consulate in S\u00e3o Paulo.Her family wired her money for a ticket home, but when she went to the police they declined to investigate the case. Later she moved into her own flat, got a car, found work as a care assistant and embarked on a university course to become a nurse.She was arrested in April 2009 after the Argentinian government began moves to extradite her, and the chief magistrate Judge Howard Riddle ruled at Westminster magistrates court that extradition could go ahead.The home secretary ordered her extradition in July 2010 under the 2003 Extradition Act. It was the magistrate's decision that was overturned on Tuesday.The high court was told that Wright had \"turned her life around\" and the right course was for her to be tried in the UK. Jones said a report from \"civil society organisations\" in Argentina to the UN committee for the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women concluded there were systemic human rights violations in women's prisons.Dr Maria Verdu, an Argentinian lawyer instructed on behalf of Wright, had reported that violations to basic rights were \"the rule\". They included food shortages, lack of sanitary facilities, and frequent intimate searches in the presence of male staff.Verdu stated that, as a foreign national, Wright would suffer greatly due to food, clothing and shortages of personal items. She would stand a chance of surviving only if she acted as a \"slave\" to other, wealthier prisoners in return for commodities.A major factor in Wright winning her appeal was Verdu's evidence. In addition to the Argentinian failure to give undertakings, the judges ruled, \"there was no attempt to cross-examine Verdu on her evidence or otherwise to contradict her powerful evidence\".", "tags": ["Extradition", "Human rights", "Law", "Human Rights Act", "Argentina", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news", "Crime", "UK news"], "title": "Pregnant Briton wins appeal against extradition to Argentina"},{"date": "2012-02-27T19:51:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two British cruise liners were turned away from an Argentine port as tensions mounted over the future of the Falkland Islands.The P&O Cruises' ship Adonia and the Princess Cruises' vessel Star Princess were not allowed to dock at Ushuaia on the southern tip of Argentina.The incidents came as Britain's formal announcement of a huge marine protection area around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands threatened to further ratchet up ill-feeling in Buenos Aires.Arturo Puricelli, the Argentine defence minster, said in December when the plans first became clear that it was \"nothing more and nothing less than an attempt under the cover of protecting the environment to usurp a larger area\".His government also regards the deployment of Prince William to the Falklands with the 30th anniversary of the war approaching as provocative.The ships were turned away by application of a Tierra del Fuego law passed six months ago which bans the docking of British military ships or ships involved in \"the exploration or exploitation of natural resources\" in the South Atlantic area.Tierra de Fuego governor Fabiana Rios is said to have applied a wide interpretation of the new law at the request of 1982 war veterans.\"If we mean to cause some damage to the British, we have actually damaged all those who would have worked with that ship today,\" complained Marcelo Lieti, head of the Ushuaia Tourism Chamber.Both cruise ships called at the Falklands on Saturday. A P&O Cruises spokesperson said the Adonia, on an 87-day trip which started in Southampton on 13 January, was now on its way to Punta Arenas, Chile. Its 710 British pasengers would get a refund on shore excursions planned for Ushuaia.Princess Cruises said the Star Princess was on a 14-day South American cruise which started in Rio de Janeiro on February 18. The ship is on an 14-night cruise which departed Rio de Janeiro on February 18, 2012.Argenina's president Cristina Kirchner is giving a major address later on Monday to mark the 200th anniversary of the Argentine flag. She was expected to make a major pronouncement on \"the Malvinas\" last week but it was postponed because of a serious train crash in Buenos Aires.The new marine protection area covers more than a million square kilometres (four times the land area of the UK) around disputed overseas territories. The Foreign Office says it would \"further protect the incredibly rich biodiversity of the islands, which has some of the most important and productive fish spawning grounds in the Southern Ocean.\"It added: \"The area is also home to seven species of globally threatened seabirds, including the wandering albatross, and so is of great international importance.\"Foreign office minister Henry Bellingham said: \"The declaration of a marine protected area around South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands clearly demonstrates the UK's effective environmental stewardship of this unique and remote part of the world.\"I am delighted that the UK has been able to demonstrate further evidence of our ongoing commitment to marine conservation and protection of the globally important biodiversity of our overseas territories.\"South Georgia's wildlife recently featured in the BBC's Frozen Planet. Presenter David Attenborough said: \"I am delighted to hear of the decision to create one of the world's largest marine reserves, which will help protect the unique and precious wildlife of South Georgia and Antarctica. This is extremely timely given the dramatic change that the polar regions are currently undergoing.\"An RSPB spokesman said the waters around South Georgia and the South Sandwich Islands \"teem with life\", adding: \"Thankfully, this wealth has long been recognised by the UK and the islands' governments who have implemented forward thinking ways of protecting this richness.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Travel & leisure", "Business", "Conservation", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Argentina turns away UK cruise ships"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-02-10T18:44:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has lodged a formal protest at the United Nations over Britain's \"militarisation\" of the Falkland Islands, further fuelling the row between London and Buenos Aires.The Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, presented a complaint on Friday to the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, who expressed concern about the increasingly strong exchanges in a summary of the meeting given by his office to reporters.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced the move earlier this week as part of her strategy to internationalise Argentina's campaign over the disputed south Atlantic islands.She said Britain's dispatch of a modern destroyer, HMS Dauntless, to replace an older vessel, as well as Prince William, in his role as a search and rescue helicopter pilot, were provocations and presented a \"grave risk for international security\". Britain said the deployments were routine.She also expressed alarm that Britain may be sending nuclear weapons to the islands, a reference to British media reports that one of the Royal Navy's Trafalgar-class submarines was on its way to the region. The Ministry of Defence said it did not comment on such deployments.Timerman, an energetic advocate of Argentina's grievances, was also due to meet Togolese diplomat Kodjo Menan, who holds the rotating UN security council presidency, and Cuba's ambassador Pedro Nu\u00f1ez Mosquera, head of the UN's decolonisation committee. Later he was expected to address the media.Argentina claims Britain stole the islands, situated 300 miles off the coast of Patagonia, in 1833. Argentina calls the archipelago Las Malvinas.The British ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant, was due to address the media after Timerman's press conference. On Thursday, David Cameron reiterated British sovereignty, saying: \"As long as the people of the Falkland Islands want to maintain that status, we will make sure they do and we will defend the Falkland Islands properly to make sure that's the case.\"Tensions between the two countries have surged in the runup to the 30th anniversary of Falklands war in which a British expeditionary force expelled Argentinian troops.Relations thawed in the 1990s but frosted again in 2010 when British firms started drilling for oil, triggering a diplomatic and commercial squeeze by Argentina's president. She recently convinced much of Latin America to ban ships flying the Falkland Islands flag from their ports.The islands have since experienced shortages of fresh fruit, notably bananas, but otherwise claims to be unaffected. However, it fears Argentina will close its airspace to a weekly commercial flight between Chile and the islands, its main link to south America and the world.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Americas", "UK news", "World news", "United Nations", "Military", "Defence policy", "Politics", "Prince William"], "title": "Britain is militarising Falklands, Argentina tells UN"},{"date": "2012-02-01T17:13:17Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "British diplomats have accused Argentina of plotting an economic blockade of the Falklands amid fears that Buenos Aires is attempting to stop all flights from Chile reaching the islands.The government of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has publicly threatened to halt the weekly flight operated by a Chilean-owned airline between Punta Arenas and Port Stanley.It is the islands' only air link with South America and their main connection with the outside world. British officials believe the service will disappear in an attempt by Argentina to make the Falklands too expensive for Britain to maintain.\"If the LAN Chile flight is cancelled it would be pretty difficult to resist the already credible thesis that there is an economic blockade of the civilian population of the Falklands,\" said a senior British diplomat in the region on Wednesday.The move, which diplomats predicted would come soon, would further isolate the disputed island chain and ratchet up tension with London on the eve of the 30th anniversary of the war between Argentina and Britain.British officials said that if LAN resisted, Argentina would simply ban the use of its airspace.Fern\u00e1ndez signalled the escalation in a speech to the UN last September, when she said Buenos Aires might block the flights, negotiated during a thaw in relations in 1999, if David Cameron's government refused to discuss sovereignty of the islands \u2013 which Argentina refers to as Las Malvinas. \"We'll wait a little longer, but otherwise we'll be forced to review the standing provisional agreements,\" she said.Cameron has continued to refuse to hold talks and recently angered the Argentinian government by accusing it of \"colonialism\" in its campaign to win back the islands. Argentina says Britain stole the territory, 300 miles off its south Atlantic coast, in 1833.Argentinian commentators reported last week that Buenos Aires was squeezing LAN, a view which is shared by British officials. The cancellation of the route would leave the Falklands entirely dependent on the twice-weekly 8,000-mile military flight from London via Ascension Island, a volcanic island near the equator.Barry Elsby, a member of the Falkland Islands' legislative assembly, said: \"This has been rumbling for many months. It's a possibility we live with on a daily basis. It would be sad, especially for the Chileans who work and live here, because they would have to leave. And it would be a shame for a nation like Chile to be dictated to.\"Instead of a 560-mile flight home to southern Chile, the islands' estimated 250 Chileans would have to travel via London.Elsby said relatives of Argentina's 600 war dead would also suffer by losing cemetery visits. Once a month the LAN flights stop in Rio Gallegos, Argentina.He played down the economic and political implications of the 3,000-strong population losing its main link to the outside world. \"It would be an inconvenience but nothing that would harm the Falklands,\" he said.Others have been less sanguine and warned of damage to tourism and exports.The row puts LAN, which has one of the region's biggest fleets of aircraft, and Chile's conservative president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, in an awkward position. Neither can be seen to bow to a neighbour's bullying, but there is commercial pressure for an accommodation.The Falkland Islands flights are a profitable but tiny part of operations for LAN, which requires Argentinian co-operation for much of its international business. The airline, which Pi\u00f1era part-owned before becoming president, has been unsuccessfully seeking permission from Argentina for a Buenos Aires to Miami flight.Argentina has cancelled landing rights at Aeroparque, the capital's domestic airport, for LAN's flights from the Chilean capital, Santiago, and S\u00e3o Paulo, Brazil. It has transferred these to Ezeiza, the city's international airport, a major drawback for LAN because it is farther outside the city and deters potential passengers. Chilean commentators speculated this was done to gain leverage over the airline.Fern\u00e1ndez is understood to have raised the issue of Falklands flights with Pi\u00f1era during a UN meeting in New York last September. She was expected to do so again earlier this month in Santiago, but the visit was pushed back because of her thyroid treatment.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Chile"], "title": "Argentina accused of plotting Falklands blockade"},{"date": "2012-01-27T23:02:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Waiting at the gate to board the flight to Buenos Aires, an awful sense of disquiet creeps upon me. I'm making a huge mistake. I'm flying to Argentina for a week, on my own, to learn to dance the Argentine tango. What the hell am I doing? I\u00a0don't speak a word of Spanish. I\u00a0haven't danced a choreographed step since 1982, when I tapped non-rhythmically along to The Red, Red Robin in a community centre. The only things I know about Argentina are that it's very far away, we went to war with them once, and years ago I saw a film where their king appeared to be Jimmy Nail. And, worst of all, the Argentine tango (I've checked with YouTube) is a complex dance, built on instinct, litheness and a\u00a0non-coy Latin American attitude to sensual proximity to strangers. I,\u00a0on the other hand, am fully British in my dispensation of body contact. Grab me without permission and I go rigid and show fangs, like a tomcat being forced into a pet carrier.As my flight is called, the terror of a week at the Tango Escuela de Carlos Copello begins to take hold. Copello is a born-and-bred tanguero. His website is full of shots of women chucking their ankles over his shoulders and dancing with their bodies wrapped round his, their faces tucked intimately into his neck or gazing deeply into his eyes. \"I feel a\u00a0bit like crying,\" I\u00a0confess pathetically to the Argentinian businessman stuck beside me and my anxieties for 13 long-haul hours.\"Oh, don't worry,\" he says, unfazed. \"Everyone cries in Argentina. You'll fit in well. We're very dramatic people.\"As it turns out, I do fit in rather well. Buenos Aires is beautiful, hot and glamorous, and the malbec is plentiful enough to make me feel roughly similar. I arrive at dawn on a bright November morning and jump into a dirt-cheap yellow cab that sneaks me into the well-heeled Recoleta district, to Algodon Mansions, which is going to be my home for the week and which slightly ruins any future trips to Argentina \u2013 the suites are enormous, with showers that fit at least a dozen people (I estimate; I couldn't get a crowd large enough to test this) and attended to by 24-hour butlers. There is also a balcony full of flora and fauna on which my own chorus of birds gathers to chirp each morning while I eat pain au chocolat, the back of my hand resting on my forehead like a 1930s movie starlet as I wonder at what time it is polite to crack into the Algodon Estates pinot noir.November and December are good months to be in Buenos Aires. The weather is warm, not yet searing, and the polo season is in full swing, as the pilgrimage of ruddy-cheeked, expat Prince Harry-alikes bumbling through the airport will denote. Do spend a Saturday afternoon at the Campo Argentine del Polo watching men on horses being macho, then carry on to after-parties in Palermo Hollywood with the great and good of Argentina's equestrian-obsessed party rabble. If you've read Jilly Cooper, you'll know what goes on.Take a tolerant credit card and flat shoes for shopping in Patio Bullrich and Arand\u00fa (think Ibiza Town married with Knightsbridge) and pack clothes made of stretchable fabrics because you'll consume too many steaks, brioche-based pies and cocktails. Do pack bug repellant: the mosquitos are silent, invisible, industrious buggers who adore sweet British skin. And definitely, definitely try to learn tango.I say the latter part with hindsight. On day one of lessons with Carlos Copello, stood in a dance studio, watching the Argentinians pass round a cup of mate (the never-ending communal equivalent of tea), wearing my stupid tango shoes \u2013 too low to be glamorous, too high to be practical, so truly useless \u2013 I\u00a0want to run away. Carlos seems to sense I'm going to be trouble from the moment he explains that tango is a dance where the man leads, the man makes all the decisions and that \u2013 unless you want to be seen as either insane or a sex-crazed harpy \u2013 a woman never suggests a dance and monitors her eye contact with men.\"Pghhhgh,\" I say, a sound of feminist dissent I find is usually understood in all languages.We begin with \"the basic step\", the one that carries two people round a dancefloor clockwise. Facing Carlos, my role goes: left foot forward, right sweeps to the side, two quick steps back, leaving left crossing right, right foot back, left sweeps across and both feet together. Repeat. It takes me two hours of stepping on Carlos's shoes and being moaned at to master this. Two of the most excruciating hours of my life. I\u00a0can do the feet. I can even do \"ochos\", the twirly-feet steps that abbreviate the basic step. What I can't do is let Carlos lead while I wrap around him, pulling a distant, yet vaguely lustful expression. He seems furious at even the slightest hint of authority in my body language. \"Tranquilo,\" he says, 275 times in the first lesson. I'm supposed to be looking into his eyes, or have my head tucked sensuously into his neck. To me, this feels wrong. In Britain, the only time someone touches you so tenderly, they're either your official \"other half\", someone you're about to get off with, or you're being sexually molested. So how come everyone else at tango school just gets on with it? I can't unlearn decades of social conditioning overnight, but I\u00a0had better bloody well try if I don't want to be the pale English wallflower with the cat's bum mouth for the next seven days.Days pass, as do my jet lag and my feeling of pointless anxiety. I'm paired with Carlos's son, Maxi, a strapping, 6ft 2in twentysomething with large, hazel eyes and broad shoulders. He begins lessons with long periods of making me gaze into his eyes and hum along to the music, so we are \"sensing the rhythms in each other's bodies\". Oddly enough, dancing with someone so gorgeous and whom I\u00a0have no aversion to whisking me around the floor like a\u00a0compliant rag doll makes things much jollier. A small flash of tanguero spirit takes hold \u2013 the music, the flamboyance, the leg kicks, the ability to grab a stranger and dance for four minutes emitting the vibes that you're wildly in love, then turn on a heel and walk off. Suddenly, it all begins to make more sense. If you let go, float above your British worry and shame, and begin dancing round and round the floor, tango will grip you like a fever.By day three, the tutors roar with glee as I dance rather proficiently, pulling the trademark Argentinian face of aloof, undying love. I take group lessons, solo lessons and technical classes that explain precisely what muscle should be working where and when. By day five, I think nothing of venturing out into the rush hour traffic to dance with Carlos for a photoshoot. I don't care, and the passersby don't, either. Everyone is quite dramatic in Argentina \u2013 my travel companion on the flight out was right.I miss Buenos Aires desperately. My tango shoes sit expectantly under my bed in wintery east London. I'm still 99% stiffly British, but now with a tiny touch of tanguero madness lying dormant in my soul.\u2022 Grace Dent travelled with Latin American specialists Dehouche on their Tango Experience. Seven nights at Algodon Mansion, including five private lessons at Tango Escuela Carlos Copello, three group classes and a Rojo Tango show, starts from \u00a33,200pp, including return flights with British Airways.\u2022 WIN: Belly-dancing lessons in Morocco. For full details of the holiday on offer, plus how to enter the competition and full terms and conditions, go to weekend travel competition", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Grace Dent learns to tango in Argentina"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:27:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A pregnant British woman who was arrested on suspicion of smuggling cocaine through a South American airport has won her high court battle against extradition to Argentina on human rights grounds.The highly unusual decision to allow the appeal by Lucy Wright, from Bolton, was granted on the grounds that she might be subjected to \"inhuman or degrading\" prison conditions.The judgment comes at a time of heightened tension over the future of the Falklands Islands with Argentina encouraging other Latin American countries to turn away British shipping.The case also represents a relatively rare example of English judges blocking an extradition request \u2013 a process that has become increasingly politically sensitive.Wright, in her late 20s, had pledged to plead guilty to cocaine smuggling charges if her extradition to South America was halted and she was tried in the UK.Two judges in London allowed her appeal against extradition on the basis that it would infringe her right not to be subjected to \"inhuman and degrading treatment\" under article three of the European convention on human rights (ECHR). If removed, she could expect to receive a sentence in Argentina of up to 16 years, the high court heard.Sir John Thomas, president of the Queen's Bench Division, sitting with Mr Justice Silber, stressed they had decided the case on its specific facts, including a lack of undertakings from Argentina relating to the prison conditions she could expect to face.They stressed there was \"no basis whatsoever for assuming or believing\" that future attempts by the government of Argentina to obtain extradition orders would fail.Silber said: \"Our decision may well have been different if the government of Argentina had adduced proper evidence or given undertakings.\"Thomas emphasised with Silber that the challenge could not have succeeded in relation to countries which are a party to the ECHR.Lawyers for Wright had argued there was a real risk her human rights would be violated if she was sent back to Argentina, where prison conditions were \"inhuman and degrading\".Wright was arrested at Buenos Aires airport allegedly in the act of smuggling nearly 6.32kg (14lb) of cocaine on 14 March 2007. She fled home after she was allowed bail.If she had lost her battle against extradition, her removal would not have taken place until after the birth of her child, who would then have been looked after by a sister. Her lawyers argued there was UN evidence of \"systemic human rights violations\" in Argentina's women's penal institutions.Alun Jones QC, appearing for Wright, said she could expect to be held in custody for over two years awaiting trial, even if she pleaded guilty. She could then expect to serve any subsequent sentence in inhuman and degrading conditions, violating article three of the ECHR.In interviews, Wright has described herself as a nursing student who came to London from Bolton with her boyfriend to start a nursing degree.When the relationship ended she became very depressed and tried to kill herself, and then a drug dealer got her addicted to crack cocaine. After she ran up massive debts, the dealer offered her \u00a310,000 to smuggle cocaine.At Buenos Aires airport, she was stopped with a suitcase containing the cocaine. She was bailed the following day and fled to the UK via Brazil where she reported her passport lost and got a replacement from the British consulate in S\u00e3o Paulo.Her family wired her money for a ticket home, but when she went to the police they declined to investigate the case. Later she moved into her own flat, got a car, found work as a care assistant and embarked on a university course to become a nurse.She was arrested in April 2009 after the Argentinian government began moves to extradite her, and the chief magistrate Judge Howard Riddle ruled at Westminster magistrates court that extradition could go ahead.The home secretary ordered her extradition in July 2010 under the 2003 Extradition Act. It was the magistrate's decision that was overturned on Tuesday.The high court was told that Wright had \"turned her life around\" and the right course was for her to be tried in the UK. Jones said a report from \"civil society organisations\" in Argentina to the UN committee for the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women concluded there were systemic human rights violations in women's prisons.Dr Maria Verdu, an Argentinian lawyer instructed on behalf of Wright, had reported that violations to basic rights were \"the rule\". They included food shortages, lack of sanitary facilities, and frequent intimate searches in the presence of male staff.Verdu stated that, as a foreign national, Wright would suffer greatly due to food, clothing and shortages of personal items. She would stand a chance of surviving only if she acted as a \"slave\" to other, wealthier prisoners in return for commodities.A major factor in Wright winning her appeal was Verdu's evidence. In addition to the Argentinian failure to give undertakings, the judges ruled, \"there was no attempt to cross-examine Verdu on her evidence or otherwise to contradict her powerful evidence\".", "tags": ["Extradition", "Human rights", "Law", "Human Rights Act", "Argentina", "Drugs trade", "Americas", "World news", "Crime", "UK news"], "title": "Pregnant Briton wins appeal against extradition to Argentina"},{"date": "2012-02-10T23:15:52Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has accused Britain of deploying nuclear weapons near the Falkland Islands and \"militarising\" the south Atlantic.The Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, lodged a formal protest at the United Nations on Friday and showed slides of British military bases in the region, saying they represented a threat to all south America.He said Buenos Aires had intelligence that a Vanguard submarine was operating in the area. \"Thus far the UK refuses to say whether it is true or not,\" he told a press conference in New York. \"Are there nuclear weapons or are there not? The information Argentina has is that there are these nuclear weapons.\" Quoting John Lennon, he added: \"Give peace a chance.\"Britain's ambassador to the UN, Mark Lyall Grant, said London did not comment on the disposition of nuclear weapons or submarines but that it was \"manifestly absurd\" to say it was militarising the region. Britain's defence posture remained unchanged, he said.The Daily Mail reported this week that Britain had deployed a Trafalgar-class nuclear-powered submarine armed only with conventional weapons.Timerman said such a nuclear-armed submarine would violate the Treaty of Tlatelolco for the Prohibition of Nuclear Weapons in Latin America and the Caribbean.After receiving Timerman's protest the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, issued a statement expressing \"concern\" about the escalating row and reportedly offered to mediate.Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, said Britain's dispatch of a modern destroyer, HMS Dauntless, to replace an older vessel, as well as Prince William, in his role as a search and rescue helicopter pilot, were provocations and presented a \"grave risk for international security\". Britain said the deployments were routine.Argentina claims Britain stole the islands, situated 300 miles off the coast of Patagonia, in 1833. Argentina calls the archipelago Las Malvinas.On Thursday, David Cameron reiterated British sovereignty, saying: \"As long as the people of the Falkland Islands want to maintain that status, we will make sure they do and we will defend the Falkland Islands properly to make sure that's the case.\"Tensions between the two countries have surged in the run-up to the 30th anniversary of the Falklands war.Relations thawed in the 1990s but cooled again in 2010 when British firms started drilling for oil, triggering a diplomatic and commercial squeeze by Argentina's president. She recently convinced much of Latin America to ban ships flying the Falkland Islands flag from their ports.The islands have since experienced shortages of fresh fruit, notably bananas, but otherwise claim to be unaffected. However, they fear Argentina will close its airspace to a weekly commercial flight between Chile and the islands, their main link to south America and the world.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Defence policy", "Military", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina accuses UK of deploying nuclear weapons near Falkland Islands"},{"date": "2012-05-30T11:11:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Policymakers in Europe seem to be surprised at the ongoing bank run in Greece (and the nascent run in Spain). They should not be. Anyone familiar with emerging-market meltdowns knows that a financial crisis nearly always follows a fiscal crisis.Argentina's default in 2001 is but one useful example. In the Argentine crisis, the economy contracted by 18% and unemployment soared to 22% of the labour force. Greece is already close to these levels.Argentina went through a complete and chaotic default on its public debt. In Greece, the \"haircut\" imposed on creditors so far has been managed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund. But, with debt still unsustainable, the next round of Greek default could well make Argentina's look positively Teutonic in its orderliness.In Argentina, the banking system came close to collapse, causing the government to ban bank withdrawals \u2013 introducing the so-called corralito, or bullpen, for deposits \u2013 and establishing capital controls. That could be the stage that Greece is entering now. So, if the precedent of the Argentine and other emerging-market crises is a useful guide, what could be in store for Greece next?To answer that question, it helps to recall the feedback loops that link fiscal and financial crises. Banks hold government and corporate loans as assets. Fiscal crisis and default reduce the value of the former, while the ensuing recession undermines the value of the latter.That is the link running from budget to bank problems. But there is a link going in the opposite direction as well: as banks deleverage to offset losses, they cut credit and the economy slows, causing government revenue to fall. If and when banks require a capital injection from public sources, the additional expenditure \u2013 which can be large \u2013 weakens public finances still further.These mutually reinforcing forces can work themselves out in a lengthy process of recession and deleveraging. Or they can prompt a sudden run on the banks, causing the financial system to implode. The outcome depends on confidence.Economists have long understood that, in the absence of a credible lender of last resort, banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises. That lender can be monetary or fiscal, and in Greece both types are in doubt.If Greece's agreement with the EU and the IMF unravels, the European Central Bank will no longer accept Greek bonds as collateral. And the Greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks. In these circumstances, it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of Greek banks.The Argentine experience suggests that, after the run on bank deposits, the saga's next instalment is monetary collapse. With revenues plummeting and credit cut off, the Argentine provinces had to resort to printing scrip to pay salaries and pensions. At one point, more than a dozen quasi-currencies were in circulation.What happens if Greece is cut off from EU and IMF credit? Optimists point out that the country is supposed to eliminate its primary deficit (the budget balance minus interest payments) by 2013, which implies that it could pay its non debt-related bills with its own resources after a default.But that view overestimates the state's capacity to collect revenues in the midst of a panic. With the economy in free fall and uncertainty pervasive, many households and firms simply stop paying taxes. So, even if the Greek government defaults on all of its debt, it might have no option but to print pieces of paper in order to meet its obligations.That would not constitute official abandonment of the euro, but, over time, the difference could become more formal than real. The newly issued scrip \u2013 call it the neo-drachma \u2013 would be tradable and highly liquid. Even if it traded at a deep discount, as it surely would, sooner rather than later it would likely be used for settling all kinds of transactions.Here, the Argentine story suggests, the mechanism loops back to the banks: firms soon start complaining that their income is now denominated in neo-drachmas while their loans remain in euros. They begin to demand loudly that the loans be neo-drachmatised (\"pesified\" in Argentine parlance). A parliament anxious for public approval is eager to meet these demands. But this only accelerates the run on the banks, as households and firms realise that no solid assets are backing their deposits.Paying public sector workers with depreciated neo-drachmas implies a cut in the real wages that they receive. The final step in the process comes with the neo-drachmatisation of private-sector wages. Firms again demand it, claiming that otherwise they cannot export. Unions initially oppose it, but eventually give in, spooked by the spectre of even greater unemployment. The promise of selective price controls sweetens the deal.How large will the devaluation of the neo-drachma be? In Argentina, the number of pesos needed to buy one dollar rose by more than 300%. Greece posted a current account deficit of nearly 10% of GDP in 2011, despite the domestic depression. The real devaluation necessary to restore external balance will be enormous, perhaps larger than that in Argentina.Greece now has its third government in less than a year, and a fourth is not far off. Argentina ran through four presidents in less than two years, before the political and economic situation stabilised. Greece, too, will eventually stabilise. At this point, that is just about the only hopeful precedent that the Argentine story holds.Copyright: Project Syndicate 2012", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "The Greek crisis: a cautionary tale from Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-30T11:11:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Policymakers in Europe seem to be surprised at the ongoing bank run in Greece (and the nascent run in Spain). They should not be. Anyone familiar with emerging-market meltdowns knows that a financial crisis nearly always follows a fiscal crisis.Argentina's default in 2001 is but one useful example. In the Argentine crisis, the economy contracted by 18% and unemployment soared to 22% of the labour force. Greece is already close to these levels.Argentina went through a complete and chaotic default on its public debt. In Greece, the \"haircut\" imposed on creditors so far has been managed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund. But, with debt still unsustainable, the next round of Greek default could well make Argentina's look positively Teutonic in its orderliness.In Argentina, the banking system came close to collapse, causing the government to ban bank withdrawals \u2013 introducing the so-called corralito, or bullpen, for deposits \u2013 and establishing capital controls. That could be the stage that Greece is entering now. So, if the precedent of the Argentine and other emerging-market crises is a useful guide, what could be in store for Greece next?To answer that question, it helps to recall the feedback loops that link fiscal and financial crises. Banks hold government and corporate loans as assets. Fiscal crisis and default reduce the value of the former, while the ensuing recession undermines the value of the latter.That is the link running from budget to bank problems. But there is a link going in the opposite direction as well: as banks deleverage to offset losses, they cut credit and the economy slows, causing government revenue to fall. If and when banks require a capital injection from public sources, the additional expenditure \u2013 which can be large \u2013 weakens public finances still further.These mutually reinforcing forces can work themselves out in a lengthy process of recession and deleveraging. Or they can prompt a sudden run on the banks, causing the financial system to implode. The outcome depends on confidence.Economists have long understood that, in the absence of a credible lender of last resort, banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises. That lender can be monetary or fiscal, and in Greece both types are in doubt.If Greece's agreement with the EU and the IMF unravels, the European Central Bank will no longer accept Greek bonds as collateral. And the Greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks. In these circumstances, it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of Greek banks.The Argentine experience suggests that, after the run on bank deposits, the saga's next instalment is monetary collapse. With revenues plummeting and credit cut off, the Argentine provinces had to resort to printing scrip to pay salaries and pensions. At one point, more than a dozen quasi-currencies were in circulation.What happens if Greece is cut off from EU and IMF credit? Optimists point out that the country is supposed to eliminate its primary deficit (the budget balance minus interest payments) by 2013, which implies that it could pay its non debt-related bills with its own resources after a default.But that view overestimates the state's capacity to collect revenues in the midst of a panic. With the economy in free fall and uncertainty pervasive, many households and firms simply stop paying taxes. So, even if the Greek government defaults on all of its debt, it might have no option but to print pieces of paper in order to meet its obligations.That would not constitute official abandonment of the euro, but, over time, the difference could become more formal than real. The newly issued scrip \u2013 call it the neo-drachma \u2013 would be tradable and highly liquid. Even if it traded at a deep discount, as it surely would, sooner rather than later it would likely be used for settling all kinds of transactions.Here, the Argentine story suggests, the mechanism loops back to the banks: firms soon start complaining that their income is now denominated in neo-drachmas while their loans remain in euros. They begin to demand loudly that the loans be neo-drachmatised (\"pesified\" in Argentine parlance). A parliament anxious for public approval is eager to meet these demands. But this only accelerates the run on the banks, as households and firms realise that no solid assets are backing their deposits.Paying public sector workers with depreciated neo-drachmas implies a cut in the real wages that they receive. The final step in the process comes with the neo-drachmatisation of private-sector wages. Firms again demand it, claiming that otherwise they cannot export. Unions initially oppose it, but eventually give in, spooked by the spectre of even greater unemployment. The promise of selective price controls sweetens the deal.How large will the devaluation of the neo-drachma be? In Argentina, the number of pesos needed to buy one dollar rose by more than 300%. Greece posted a current account deficit of nearly 10% of GDP in 2011, despite the domestic depression. The real devaluation necessary to restore external balance will be enormous, perhaps larger than that in Argentina.Greece now has its third government in less than a year, and a fourth is not far off. Argentina ran through four presidents in less than two years, before the political and economic situation stabilised. Greece, too, will eventually stabilise. At this point, that is just about the only hopeful precedent that the Argentine story holds.Copyright: Project Syndicate 2012", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "The Greek crisis: a cautionary tale from Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-28T15:30:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Sex clearly drives Britain and Argentina as they vie to dominate islands of interest. The two great nations are rivals in producing academic studies of whether and how people stare at women's breasts or buttocks.Britain fired the first shot in this war. In 2007, Adrian Furnham and Viren Swami of University College London published a report called Perception of Female Buttocks and Breast Size in Profile, in the journal Social Behaviour and Personality.Professor Furnham is, by his own reckoning, one of the most productive academics alive, publishing many hundreds of papers in dozens of far-flung fields.Professor Swami, now at the University of Westminster, also beavers relentlessly, both in Britain and abroad. He has launched treatises in topics from the physical attractiveness of women and men in London's boroughs to the opinions of Austrian students as to the personalities of butchers and hunters.The Furnham/Swami breast/buttocks paper gathers together many facts known only to a small number of specialists. Here's one. Furnham and Swami write: \"It is widely recognised, for example, that the African Hottentot (Caboid) tribe and certain tribes in the Andaman Islands show a preference for large fat deposits on the buttocks, a condition known as steatopygia. It has been suggested that such fat deposits on the buttocks and thighs may signal resource accrual\u2026\"Furnham and Swami studied the reactions of 114 British undergraduates \u2013 men and women. They write: \"The stimuli consisted of nine nude female silhouettes, prepared \u2026 in such a manner that the size of breasts and buttocks could be varied systematically.\" Their conclusion: \"The participants in this study showed a preference for small breast size, although buttocks size did not appear to alter ratings of attractiveness. It would be useful for future research to include a larger range of breast sizes and shapes \u2026 to investigate the possibility that optimal breast size \u2026 varies across individuals\".Argentina took five years to respond to this provocation.Mariano Sigman, director of the Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience at the University of Buenos Aires, and two collaborators concentrated their analytical firepower on male undergraduates. Their study called Eye Fixations Indicate Men's Preference for Female Breasts or Buttocks has just been published in the Archives of Sexual Behaviour.The Sigman team reports that: (1) \"Argentinian males tended to define themselves as favouring breasts or buttocks\"; (2) \"the distribution was biased towards buttocks\"; and (3) individuals who say they prefer to gaze at one of those body parts behave as if they do.The British and Argentinian projects both exhibit indomitable focus. The authors and test subjects apparently refuse to let anything seriously distract them from what they want to study.(Thanks to Diego Golombeck for alerting me to the Argentinian study.)\u2022 Marc Abrahams is editor of the bimonthly Annals of Improbable Research and organiser of the Ig Nobel prize", "tags": ["Research", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Improbable research: buttock and breast ogling in Britain and Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-30T11:11:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Policymakers in Europe seem to be surprised at the ongoing bank run in Greece (and the nascent run in Spain). They should not be. Anyone familiar with emerging-market meltdowns knows that a financial crisis nearly always follows a fiscal crisis.Argentina's default in 2001 is but one useful example. In the Argentine crisis, the economy contracted by 18% and unemployment soared to 22% of the labour force. Greece is already close to these levels.Argentina went through a complete and chaotic default on its public debt. In Greece, the \"haircut\" imposed on creditors so far has been managed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund. But, with debt still unsustainable, the next round of Greek default could well make Argentina's look positively Teutonic in its orderliness.In Argentina, the banking system came close to collapse, causing the government to ban bank withdrawals \u2013 introducing the so-called corralito, or bullpen, for deposits \u2013 and establishing capital controls. That could be the stage that Greece is entering now. So, if the precedent of the Argentine and other emerging-market crises is a useful guide, what could be in store for Greece next?To answer that question, it helps to recall the feedback loops that link fiscal and financial crises. Banks hold government and corporate loans as assets. Fiscal crisis and default reduce the value of the former, while the ensuing recession undermines the value of the latter.That is the link running from budget to bank problems. But there is a link going in the opposite direction as well: as banks deleverage to offset losses, they cut credit and the economy slows, causing government revenue to fall. If and when banks require a capital injection from public sources, the additional expenditure \u2013 which can be large \u2013 weakens public finances still further.These mutually reinforcing forces can work themselves out in a lengthy process of recession and deleveraging. Or they can prompt a sudden run on the banks, causing the financial system to implode. The outcome depends on confidence.Economists have long understood that, in the absence of a credible lender of last resort, banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises. That lender can be monetary or fiscal, and in Greece both types are in doubt.If Greece's agreement with the EU and the IMF unravels, the European Central Bank will no longer accept Greek bonds as collateral. And the Greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks. In these circumstances, it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of Greek banks.The Argentine experience suggests that, after the run on bank deposits, the saga's next instalment is monetary collapse. With revenues plummeting and credit cut off, the Argentine provinces had to resort to printing scrip to pay salaries and pensions. At one point, more than a dozen quasi-currencies were in circulation.What happens if Greece is cut off from EU and IMF credit? Optimists point out that the country is supposed to eliminate its primary deficit (the budget balance minus interest payments) by 2013, which implies that it could pay its non debt-related bills with its own resources after a default.But that view overestimates the state's capacity to collect revenues in the midst of a panic. With the economy in free fall and uncertainty pervasive, many households and firms simply stop paying taxes. So, even if the Greek government defaults on all of its debt, it might have no option but to print pieces of paper in order to meet its obligations.That would not constitute official abandonment of the euro, but, over time, the difference could become more formal than real. The newly issued scrip \u2013 call it the neo-drachma \u2013 would be tradable and highly liquid. Even if it traded at a deep discount, as it surely would, sooner rather than later it would likely be used for settling all kinds of transactions.Here, the Argentine story suggests, the mechanism loops back to the banks: firms soon start complaining that their income is now denominated in neo-drachmas while their loans remain in euros. They begin to demand loudly that the loans be neo-drachmatised (\"pesified\" in Argentine parlance). A parliament anxious for public approval is eager to meet these demands. But this only accelerates the run on the banks, as households and firms realise that no solid assets are backing their deposits.Paying public sector workers with depreciated neo-drachmas implies a cut in the real wages that they receive. The final step in the process comes with the neo-drachmatisation of private-sector wages. Firms again demand it, claiming that otherwise they cannot export. Unions initially oppose it, but eventually give in, spooked by the spectre of even greater unemployment. The promise of selective price controls sweetens the deal.How large will the devaluation of the neo-drachma be? In Argentina, the number of pesos needed to buy one dollar rose by more than 300%. Greece posted a current account deficit of nearly 10% of GDP in 2011, despite the domestic depression. The real devaluation necessary to restore external balance will be enormous, perhaps larger than that in Argentina.Greece now has its third government in less than a year, and a fourth is not far off. Argentina ran through four presidents in less than two years, before the political and economic situation stabilised. Greece, too, will eventually stabilise. At this point, that is just about the only hopeful precedent that the Argentine story holds.Copyright: Project Syndicate 2012", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "The Greek crisis: a cautionary tale from Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-28T15:30:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Sex clearly drives Britain and Argentina as they vie to dominate islands of interest. The two great nations are rivals in producing academic studies of whether and how people stare at women's breasts or buttocks.Britain fired the first shot in this war. In 2007, Adrian Furnham and Viren Swami of University College London published a report called Perception of Female Buttocks and Breast Size in Profile, in the journal Social Behaviour and Personality.Professor Furnham is, by his own reckoning, one of the most productive academics alive, publishing many hundreds of papers in dozens of far-flung fields.Professor Swami, now at the University of Westminster, also beavers relentlessly, both in Britain and abroad. He has launched treatises in topics from the physical attractiveness of women and men in London's boroughs to the opinions of Austrian students as to the personalities of butchers and hunters.The Furnham/Swami breast/buttocks paper gathers together many facts known only to a small number of specialists. Here's one. Furnham and Swami write: \"It is widely recognised, for example, that the African Hottentot (Caboid) tribe and certain tribes in the Andaman Islands show a preference for large fat deposits on the buttocks, a condition known as steatopygia. It has been suggested that such fat deposits on the buttocks and thighs may signal resource accrual\u2026\"Furnham and Swami studied the reactions of 114 British undergraduates \u2013 men and women. They write: \"The stimuli consisted of nine nude female silhouettes, prepared \u2026 in such a manner that the size of breasts and buttocks could be varied systematically.\" Their conclusion: \"The participants in this study showed a preference for small breast size, although buttocks size did not appear to alter ratings of attractiveness. It would be useful for future research to include a larger range of breast sizes and shapes \u2026 to investigate the possibility that optimal breast size \u2026 varies across individuals\".Argentina took five years to respond to this provocation.Mariano Sigman, director of the Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience at the University of Buenos Aires, and two collaborators concentrated their analytical firepower on male undergraduates. Their study called Eye Fixations Indicate Men's Preference for Female Breasts or Buttocks has just been published in the Archives of Sexual Behaviour.The Sigman team reports that: (1) \"Argentinian males tended to define themselves as favouring breasts or buttocks\"; (2) \"the distribution was biased towards buttocks\"; and (3) individuals who say they prefer to gaze at one of those body parts behave as if they do.The British and Argentinian projects both exhibit indomitable focus. The authors and test subjects apparently refuse to let anything seriously distract them from what they want to study.(Thanks to Diego Golombeck for alerting me to the Argentinian study.)\u2022 Marc Abrahams is editor of the bimonthly Annals of Improbable Research and organiser of the Ig Nobel prize", "tags": ["Research", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Improbable research: buttock and breast ogling in Britain and Argentina"},{"date": "2012-04-17T20:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " Spain pledged to wage diplomatic and industrial war on Argentina after the country's populist president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, announced plans to nationalise the Spanish-owned part of oil company YPF.\"With this attitude, this hostility from the Argentine authorities, there will be consequences that we'll see over the next few days,\" industry minister Jos\u00e9 Manuel Soria pledged, calling it a hostile action against Spain. \"They will be in the diplomatic field, the industrial field and on energy.\" Retaliatory measures for the expropriation of the Spanish Repsol company's shares in YPF will be announced after a cabinet meeting on Friday, while the European Union was also pulled into the dispute.Spanish president Mariano Rajoy had blistering words for Fern\u00e1ndez, speaking at the World Economic Forum on Latin America in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. \"This damages Argentina's international reputation,\" said Rajoy. \"What happened yesterday could happen to any other investment.\" Spain's foreign minister, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo, claimed that Fern\u00e1ndez had originally planned to time her announcement to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Falklands war on 2 April.\"We expect Argentinian authorities to uphold their international commitments and obligations, in particular those resulting from a bilateral agreement on the protection on investments in Spain,\" said European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso. European foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton called off a meeting of the EU-Argentine joint committee on Thursday.A Chinese website, meanwhile, reported that Repsol had been preparing to sell YPF to the China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec) for $15bn. Repsol, which has Sinopec as a strategic partner in Brazil, did not comment on the claim. China has far greater clout than Spain in Argentina, whose economy is heavily dependent on soya exports to the Asian giant, leading to speculation that Fern\u00e1ndez might strike her own deal with Sinopec, effectively handing even greater control over Argentina's economy to Beijing.Repsol chairman Antonio Brufau accused Fern\u00e1ndez of trying to divert attention from her political troubles with the nationalisation and demanded the market rate of $10.5bn (\u00a36.6bn) for his firm.\"This is only a way of covering up the social and economic crisis Argentina is facing,\" said Brufau, pointing to high inflation and energy prices.Fern\u00e1ndez had accused the company of failing to invest in oil prospecting in the country after buying YPF from the state in 1999. But Brufau said it had invested $20bn. Repsol also claimed the recent discovery of abundant shale oil and gas reserves in the Vaca Muerta area of Argentina had sparked the takeover. Spanish analysts said price controls imposed by the Argentine government had made investment much less profitable for Repsol, although Repsol said 33.7% of the group's recent investments had been going to YPF, which provided 21% of the net income.Argentina's hydrocarbons output has been in decline for years at a time of strong demand from industry and consumers. Crude production fell 5.9% and natural gas output slipped 3.4% last year as power demand rose 5.1%, according to the Argentine Institute of Petroleum and Gas. YPF's proven reserves of crude and natural gas \u2013 which do not include the new shale finds \u2013 fell 15% and 31% respectively between 2007 and 2010. Imports of fuels such as liquefied natural gas and diesel doubled last year to about $9.4bn, eroding the country's trade surplus.Brufau was furious that Argentine officials had thrown Spanish executives out of the YPF headquarters in Buenos Aires. He pledged a legal battle at the United Nations and the World Bank against Fern\u00e1ndez, accusing her of being \"an expert manipulator\". \"She carried out an illegal act and made unlawful allegations which followed a campaign aimed at knocking down the price of YPF shares and allowing expropriation at a bargain price,\" he said.\"It will be a long (legal) battle,\" Brufau warned.Argentina has not said how much it intends to pay for YPF, which has 42% of Repsol's global reserves, but Brufau said Repsol's YPF stake was worth $10.5bn. Analysts, however, said it would probably be offered the much lower book value of about \u20ac4bn. (\u00a33.3bn).\"Repsol will not have much bargaining power given the limited legal recourse at its disposal,\" said Laurence Allan and Juliette Kerr of IHS Global Insight, pointing to Argentina's refusal to pay out on other World Bank arbitration claims. \"Yesterday's performance is a continuation of recent rhetoric over the Falkland Islands,\" they added.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"Argentina now runs the risk of scaring away other foreign investors needed to develop the larger Vaca Muerta area. Analysts said the move, announced live on television amid the increasingly populist and nationalist paraphernalia that accompanies Fern\u00e1ndez, would have far-reaching implications.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"The takeover of Repsol's shares in YPF will leave Argentina with a 51% stake in the company, Repsol with 6%, the Argentine group Petersen with 25%, with the remainder distributed among private shareholders. The company has more than 13,000 employees and had sales of $56bn last year, producing about 111 million barrels of oil last year with profits of more than $5bn.", "tags": ["Spain", "Argentina", "Oil", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Spain attacks Argentina over nationalisation of oil company YPF"},{"date": "2012-05-30T11:11:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Policymakers in Europe seem to be surprised at the ongoing bank run in Greece (and the nascent run in Spain). They should not be. Anyone familiar with emerging-market meltdowns knows that a financial crisis nearly always follows a fiscal crisis.Argentina's default in 2001 is but one useful example. In the Argentine crisis, the economy contracted by 18% and unemployment soared to 22% of the labour force. Greece is already close to these levels.Argentina went through a complete and chaotic default on its public debt. In Greece, the \"haircut\" imposed on creditors so far has been managed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund. But, with debt still unsustainable, the next round of Greek default could well make Argentina's look positively Teutonic in its orderliness.In Argentina, the banking system came close to collapse, causing the government to ban bank withdrawals \u2013 introducing the so-called corralito, or bullpen, for deposits \u2013 and establishing capital controls. That could be the stage that Greece is entering now. So, if the precedent of the Argentine and other emerging-market crises is a useful guide, what could be in store for Greece next?To answer that question, it helps to recall the feedback loops that link fiscal and financial crises. Banks hold government and corporate loans as assets. Fiscal crisis and default reduce the value of the former, while the ensuing recession undermines the value of the latter.That is the link running from budget to bank problems. But there is a link going in the opposite direction as well: as banks deleverage to offset losses, they cut credit and the economy slows, causing government revenue to fall. If and when banks require a capital injection from public sources, the additional expenditure \u2013 which can be large \u2013 weakens public finances still further.These mutually reinforcing forces can work themselves out in a lengthy process of recession and deleveraging. Or they can prompt a sudden run on the banks, causing the financial system to implode. The outcome depends on confidence.Economists have long understood that, in the absence of a credible lender of last resort, banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises. That lender can be monetary or fiscal, and in Greece both types are in doubt.If Greece's agreement with the EU and the IMF unravels, the European Central Bank will no longer accept Greek bonds as collateral. And the Greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks. In these circumstances, it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of Greek banks.The Argentine experience suggests that, after the run on bank deposits, the saga's next instalment is monetary collapse. With revenues plummeting and credit cut off, the Argentine provinces had to resort to printing scrip to pay salaries and pensions. At one point, more than a dozen quasi-currencies were in circulation.What happens if Greece is cut off from EU and IMF credit? Optimists point out that the country is supposed to eliminate its primary deficit (the budget balance minus interest payments) by 2013, which implies that it could pay its non debt-related bills with its own resources after a default.But that view overestimates the state's capacity to collect revenues in the midst of a panic. With the economy in free fall and uncertainty pervasive, many households and firms simply stop paying taxes. So, even if the Greek government defaults on all of its debt, it might have no option but to print pieces of paper in order to meet its obligations.That would not constitute official abandonment of the euro, but, over time, the difference could become more formal than real. The newly issued scrip \u2013 call it the neo-drachma \u2013 would be tradable and highly liquid. Even if it traded at a deep discount, as it surely would, sooner rather than later it would likely be used for settling all kinds of transactions.Here, the Argentine story suggests, the mechanism loops back to the banks: firms soon start complaining that their income is now denominated in neo-drachmas while their loans remain in euros. They begin to demand loudly that the loans be neo-drachmatised (\"pesified\" in Argentine parlance). A parliament anxious for public approval is eager to meet these demands. But this only accelerates the run on the banks, as households and firms realise that no solid assets are backing their deposits.Paying public sector workers with depreciated neo-drachmas implies a cut in the real wages that they receive. The final step in the process comes with the neo-drachmatisation of private-sector wages. Firms again demand it, claiming that otherwise they cannot export. Unions initially oppose it, but eventually give in, spooked by the spectre of even greater unemployment. The promise of selective price controls sweetens the deal.How large will the devaluation of the neo-drachma be? In Argentina, the number of pesos needed to buy one dollar rose by more than 300%. Greece posted a current account deficit of nearly 10% of GDP in 2011, despite the domestic depression. The real devaluation necessary to restore external balance will be enormous, perhaps larger than that in Argentina.Greece now has its third government in less than a year, and a fourth is not far off. Argentina ran through four presidents in less than two years, before the political and economic situation stabilised. Greece, too, will eventually stabilise. At this point, that is just about the only hopeful precedent that the Argentine story holds.Copyright: Project Syndicate 2012", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "The Greek crisis: a cautionary tale from Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-28T15:30:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Sex clearly drives Britain and Argentina as they vie to dominate islands of interest. The two great nations are rivals in producing academic studies of whether and how people stare at women's breasts or buttocks.Britain fired the first shot in this war. In 2007, Adrian Furnham and Viren Swami of University College London published a report called Perception of Female Buttocks and Breast Size in Profile, in the journal Social Behaviour and Personality.Professor Furnham is, by his own reckoning, one of the most productive academics alive, publishing many hundreds of papers in dozens of far-flung fields.Professor Swami, now at the University of Westminster, also beavers relentlessly, both in Britain and abroad. He has launched treatises in topics from the physical attractiveness of women and men in London's boroughs to the opinions of Austrian students as to the personalities of butchers and hunters.The Furnham/Swami breast/buttocks paper gathers together many facts known only to a small number of specialists. Here's one. Furnham and Swami write: \"It is widely recognised, for example, that the African Hottentot (Caboid) tribe and certain tribes in the Andaman Islands show a preference for large fat deposits on the buttocks, a condition known as steatopygia. It has been suggested that such fat deposits on the buttocks and thighs may signal resource accrual\u2026\"Furnham and Swami studied the reactions of 114 British undergraduates \u2013 men and women. They write: \"The stimuli consisted of nine nude female silhouettes, prepared \u2026 in such a manner that the size of breasts and buttocks could be varied systematically.\" Their conclusion: \"The participants in this study showed a preference for small breast size, although buttocks size did not appear to alter ratings of attractiveness. It would be useful for future research to include a larger range of breast sizes and shapes \u2026 to investigate the possibility that optimal breast size \u2026 varies across individuals\".Argentina took five years to respond to this provocation.Mariano Sigman, director of the Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience at the University of Buenos Aires, and two collaborators concentrated their analytical firepower on male undergraduates. Their study called Eye Fixations Indicate Men's Preference for Female Breasts or Buttocks has just been published in the Archives of Sexual Behaviour.The Sigman team reports that: (1) \"Argentinian males tended to define themselves as favouring breasts or buttocks\"; (2) \"the distribution was biased towards buttocks\"; and (3) individuals who say they prefer to gaze at one of those body parts behave as if they do.The British and Argentinian projects both exhibit indomitable focus. The authors and test subjects apparently refuse to let anything seriously distract them from what they want to study.(Thanks to Diego Golombeck for alerting me to the Argentinian study.)\u2022 Marc Abrahams is editor of the bimonthly Annals of Improbable Research and organiser of the Ig Nobel prize", "tags": ["Research", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Improbable research: buttock and breast ogling in Britain and Argentina"},{"date": "2012-04-17T20:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " Spain pledged to wage diplomatic and industrial war on Argentina after the country's populist president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, announced plans to nationalise the Spanish-owned part of oil company YPF.\"With this attitude, this hostility from the Argentine authorities, there will be consequences that we'll see over the next few days,\" industry minister Jos\u00e9 Manuel Soria pledged, calling it a hostile action against Spain. \"They will be in the diplomatic field, the industrial field and on energy.\" Retaliatory measures for the expropriation of the Spanish Repsol company's shares in YPF will be announced after a cabinet meeting on Friday, while the European Union was also pulled into the dispute.Spanish president Mariano Rajoy had blistering words for Fern\u00e1ndez, speaking at the World Economic Forum on Latin America in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. \"This damages Argentina's international reputation,\" said Rajoy. \"What happened yesterday could happen to any other investment.\" Spain's foreign minister, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo, claimed that Fern\u00e1ndez had originally planned to time her announcement to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Falklands war on 2 April.\"We expect Argentinian authorities to uphold their international commitments and obligations, in particular those resulting from a bilateral agreement on the protection on investments in Spain,\" said European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso. European foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton called off a meeting of the EU-Argentine joint committee on Thursday.A Chinese website, meanwhile, reported that Repsol had been preparing to sell YPF to the China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec) for $15bn. Repsol, which has Sinopec as a strategic partner in Brazil, did not comment on the claim. China has far greater clout than Spain in Argentina, whose economy is heavily dependent on soya exports to the Asian giant, leading to speculation that Fern\u00e1ndez might strike her own deal with Sinopec, effectively handing even greater control over Argentina's economy to Beijing.Repsol chairman Antonio Brufau accused Fern\u00e1ndez of trying to divert attention from her political troubles with the nationalisation and demanded the market rate of $10.5bn (\u00a36.6bn) for his firm.\"This is only a way of covering up the social and economic crisis Argentina is facing,\" said Brufau, pointing to high inflation and energy prices.Fern\u00e1ndez had accused the company of failing to invest in oil prospecting in the country after buying YPF from the state in 1999. But Brufau said it had invested $20bn. Repsol also claimed the recent discovery of abundant shale oil and gas reserves in the Vaca Muerta area of Argentina had sparked the takeover. Spanish analysts said price controls imposed by the Argentine government had made investment much less profitable for Repsol, although Repsol said 33.7% of the group's recent investments had been going to YPF, which provided 21% of the net income.Argentina's hydrocarbons output has been in decline for years at a time of strong demand from industry and consumers. Crude production fell 5.9% and natural gas output slipped 3.4% last year as power demand rose 5.1%, according to the Argentine Institute of Petroleum and Gas. YPF's proven reserves of crude and natural gas \u2013 which do not include the new shale finds \u2013 fell 15% and 31% respectively between 2007 and 2010. Imports of fuels such as liquefied natural gas and diesel doubled last year to about $9.4bn, eroding the country's trade surplus.Brufau was furious that Argentine officials had thrown Spanish executives out of the YPF headquarters in Buenos Aires. He pledged a legal battle at the United Nations and the World Bank against Fern\u00e1ndez, accusing her of being \"an expert manipulator\". \"She carried out an illegal act and made unlawful allegations which followed a campaign aimed at knocking down the price of YPF shares and allowing expropriation at a bargain price,\" he said.\"It will be a long (legal) battle,\" Brufau warned.Argentina has not said how much it intends to pay for YPF, which has 42% of Repsol's global reserves, but Brufau said Repsol's YPF stake was worth $10.5bn. Analysts, however, said it would probably be offered the much lower book value of about \u20ac4bn. (\u00a33.3bn).\"Repsol will not have much bargaining power given the limited legal recourse at its disposal,\" said Laurence Allan and Juliette Kerr of IHS Global Insight, pointing to Argentina's refusal to pay out on other World Bank arbitration claims. \"Yesterday's performance is a continuation of recent rhetoric over the Falkland Islands,\" they added.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"Argentina now runs the risk of scaring away other foreign investors needed to develop the larger Vaca Muerta area. Analysts said the move, announced live on television amid the increasingly populist and nationalist paraphernalia that accompanies Fern\u00e1ndez, would have far-reaching implications.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"The takeover of Repsol's shares in YPF will leave Argentina with a 51% stake in the company, Repsol with 6%, the Argentine group Petersen with 25%, with the remainder distributed among private shareholders. The company has more than 13,000 employees and had sales of $56bn last year, producing about 111 million barrels of oil last year with profits of more than $5bn.", "tags": ["Spain", "Argentina", "Oil", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Spain attacks Argentina over nationalisation of oil company YPF"},{"date": "2012-04-01T20:00:04Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Any \"acceptable settlement\" (The Falklands: 30 years on, 31 March) will recognise that the islands belong to Argentina, by virtue of the principle of uti possidetis juris.Following the British appropriation of Port Egmont in 1765, a Spanish military governor was appointed in 1767 to administer the islands. In 1776, by royal charter, the Spanish crown made the islands a commandery under the jurisdiction of the naval base at Montevideo, which reported to the government of Buenos Aires. Upon the May revolution in 1810, the latter took over all the territories of the viceroyalty of the Rio Plata, including the islands. Spanish administration of the islands was interrupted in 1811 and resumed in 1820. On 10 June 1829, decrees from Buenos Aires created the political and military commandery of the Malvinas islands and islands adjoining Cape Horn in the Atlantic Sea, under the commandership of Luis Vernet. The Argentinian administration was forcefully ended on 3 January 1833, by the arrival of HMS Clio.The above principle, as applied to territorial ownership and as affirmed repeatedly by the international court of justice, accords pre-eminence to legal title over effective possession as a basis of sovereignty.So the islanders have the security of Mount Pleasant defence but not of international law.Peter HamiltonMuch Marcle, Herefordshire\u2022 About the article published by Roger Edwards saying that \"no one listen to the islanders\" (Will no one listen to us Falkland Islanders?, 6 March), I wanted to talk about some of your statements. After our independence from Spain, which until then exercised legal dominion over the islands, the country inherited and maintained that domain with a small military garrison since 1820, as mentioned by Edwards.The expulsion of the Argentine authorities in 1833 was a use of force by a dominant power, Britain, against a recently formed country, as Argentina was. This display of power, which was immediately protested by the Argentine government, is the cause of the whole problem, and the reason why British people have been living in the island for more than 180 years. The British occupation resulted in a colony that prevented the development of Argentina's population, unlike what happened in Patagonia.Argentina does not have anything against the islanders, just that there is a long dispute over the territory in which they live, which began before their arrival. The reaffirmation of Argentina's position has its origin in the lack of British willingness to begin negotiations, and the subsequent consolidation of a status quo that only benefits Britain. All the steps taken by our democratic governments are contemplated as peaceful means, under international law and the United Nations Charter, and have the support of the international community, particularly in our region, which considers the Malvinas issue a remnant of colonialism.It is time for the islanders to understand that Argentina feels attacked when Britain declares that sovereignty over the islands is not open to discussion. Britain uses our natural resources and deploys military forces over a territory we claim as our own, and which no country in the world denies is under legal dispute, not even the US.It is clear that the world is heading towards the creation of integrated spaces, and the viability of states is directly related to their insertion into these spaces. We are therefore convinced that the future of the islands is objectively linked to South America.The planet we inhabit does not deserve hate, it deserves peace. If we ignore the feelings of hatred of the past and overcome our differences, we will soon realise we are part of the same fate.Carlos RaimundiMember of Argentina's parliament\u2022 As with Afghanistan, the great problem is that so many faultless servicemen and women and their families have lost their lives and loved ones fighting senseless wars, at the behest of bellicose politicians, that it is very hard to admit that such sacrifice has essentially been wasted. But just as we should clearly pull out and stay out of Afghanistan, we should equally take a hard-headed approach to the future of the Falklands. Imagine if, as a result of past colonial exploits, Argentina \"owned\" the Isle of Wight or the Isle of Man \u2013 what would we think then? It would be ridiculous, just as us \"owning\" the Falklands is.Yes, currently, it appears that a majority of the islanders want to remain \"British\" but this is not a realistic proposition. Instead we should do as we did with Hong Kong, set a date, say 30 years hence, when the islands would revert to Argentina and work constructively with all parties in the meantime to bring this about. Of course any Falkland Islanders and their families who wanted before \u2013 or at \u2013 that point to \"return\" to Britain should be enabled to do so. Thereafter, residents of the islands would be Argentinian citizens.John StrongmanManchesterArgentina may well have \"provoked\" war 30 years ago but it takes two to tango, and the worry is that, now that the Tories have finally been recognised for what they are, they could well be the willing partner again, repeating the Thatcher ploy of resorting to war to avoid humiliation at the polls. What are the odds on a Gulf of Tonkin-type incident in the South Atlantic in the next 12 months? Failing that, one in the Strait of Hormuz might serve the same purpose.Bernie EvansLiverpool", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Law", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "Letters: In principle, the Falkland Islands belong to Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-30T11:11:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Policymakers in Europe seem to be surprised at the ongoing bank run in Greece (and the nascent run in Spain). They should not be. Anyone familiar with emerging-market meltdowns knows that a financial crisis nearly always follows a fiscal crisis.Argentina's default in 2001 is but one useful example. In the Argentine crisis, the economy contracted by 18% and unemployment soared to 22% of the labour force. Greece is already close to these levels.Argentina went through a complete and chaotic default on its public debt. In Greece, the \"haircut\" imposed on creditors so far has been managed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund. But, with debt still unsustainable, the next round of Greek default could well make Argentina's look positively Teutonic in its orderliness.In Argentina, the banking system came close to collapse, causing the government to ban bank withdrawals \u2013 introducing the so-called corralito, or bullpen, for deposits \u2013 and establishing capital controls. That could be the stage that Greece is entering now. So, if the precedent of the Argentine and other emerging-market crises is a useful guide, what could be in store for Greece next?To answer that question, it helps to recall the feedback loops that link fiscal and financial crises. Banks hold government and corporate loans as assets. Fiscal crisis and default reduce the value of the former, while the ensuing recession undermines the value of the latter.That is the link running from budget to bank problems. But there is a link going in the opposite direction as well: as banks deleverage to offset losses, they cut credit and the economy slows, causing government revenue to fall. If and when banks require a capital injection from public sources, the additional expenditure \u2013 which can be large \u2013 weakens public finances still further.These mutually reinforcing forces can work themselves out in a lengthy process of recession and deleveraging. Or they can prompt a sudden run on the banks, causing the financial system to implode. The outcome depends on confidence.Economists have long understood that, in the absence of a credible lender of last resort, banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises. That lender can be monetary or fiscal, and in Greece both types are in doubt.If Greece's agreement with the EU and the IMF unravels, the European Central Bank will no longer accept Greek bonds as collateral. And the Greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks. In these circumstances, it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of Greek banks.The Argentine experience suggests that, after the run on bank deposits, the saga's next instalment is monetary collapse. With revenues plummeting and credit cut off, the Argentine provinces had to resort to printing scrip to pay salaries and pensions. At one point, more than a dozen quasi-currencies were in circulation.What happens if Greece is cut off from EU and IMF credit? Optimists point out that the country is supposed to eliminate its primary deficit (the budget balance minus interest payments) by 2013, which implies that it could pay its non debt-related bills with its own resources after a default.But that view overestimates the state's capacity to collect revenues in the midst of a panic. With the economy in free fall and uncertainty pervasive, many households and firms simply stop paying taxes. So, even if the Greek government defaults on all of its debt, it might have no option but to print pieces of paper in order to meet its obligations.That would not constitute official abandonment of the euro, but, over time, the difference could become more formal than real. The newly issued scrip \u2013 call it the neo-drachma \u2013 would be tradable and highly liquid. Even if it traded at a deep discount, as it surely would, sooner rather than later it would likely be used for settling all kinds of transactions.Here, the Argentine story suggests, the mechanism loops back to the banks: firms soon start complaining that their income is now denominated in neo-drachmas while their loans remain in euros. They begin to demand loudly that the loans be neo-drachmatised (\"pesified\" in Argentine parlance). A parliament anxious for public approval is eager to meet these demands. But this only accelerates the run on the banks, as households and firms realise that no solid assets are backing their deposits.Paying public sector workers with depreciated neo-drachmas implies a cut in the real wages that they receive. The final step in the process comes with the neo-drachmatisation of private-sector wages. Firms again demand it, claiming that otherwise they cannot export. Unions initially oppose it, but eventually give in, spooked by the spectre of even greater unemployment. The promise of selective price controls sweetens the deal.How large will the devaluation of the neo-drachma be? In Argentina, the number of pesos needed to buy one dollar rose by more than 300%. Greece posted a current account deficit of nearly 10% of GDP in 2011, despite the domestic depression. The real devaluation necessary to restore external balance will be enormous, perhaps larger than that in Argentina.Greece now has its third government in less than a year, and a fourth is not far off. Argentina ran through four presidents in less than two years, before the political and economic situation stabilised. Greece, too, will eventually stabilise. At this point, that is just about the only hopeful precedent that the Argentine story holds.Copyright: Project Syndicate 2012", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "The Greek crisis: a cautionary tale from Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-28T15:30:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Sex clearly drives Britain and Argentina as they vie to dominate islands of interest. The two great nations are rivals in producing academic studies of whether and how people stare at women's breasts or buttocks.Britain fired the first shot in this war. In 2007, Adrian Furnham and Viren Swami of University College London published a report called Perception of Female Buttocks and Breast Size in Profile, in the journal Social Behaviour and Personality.Professor Furnham is, by his own reckoning, one of the most productive academics alive, publishing many hundreds of papers in dozens of far-flung fields.Professor Swami, now at the University of Westminster, also beavers relentlessly, both in Britain and abroad. He has launched treatises in topics from the physical attractiveness of women and men in London's boroughs to the opinions of Austrian students as to the personalities of butchers and hunters.The Furnham/Swami breast/buttocks paper gathers together many facts known only to a small number of specialists. Here's one. Furnham and Swami write: \"It is widely recognised, for example, that the African Hottentot (Caboid) tribe and certain tribes in the Andaman Islands show a preference for large fat deposits on the buttocks, a condition known as steatopygia. It has been suggested that such fat deposits on the buttocks and thighs may signal resource accrual\u2026\"Furnham and Swami studied the reactions of 114 British undergraduates \u2013 men and women. They write: \"The stimuli consisted of nine nude female silhouettes, prepared \u2026 in such a manner that the size of breasts and buttocks could be varied systematically.\" Their conclusion: \"The participants in this study showed a preference for small breast size, although buttocks size did not appear to alter ratings of attractiveness. It would be useful for future research to include a larger range of breast sizes and shapes \u2026 to investigate the possibility that optimal breast size \u2026 varies across individuals\".Argentina took five years to respond to this provocation.Mariano Sigman, director of the Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience at the University of Buenos Aires, and two collaborators concentrated their analytical firepower on male undergraduates. Their study called Eye Fixations Indicate Men's Preference for Female Breasts or Buttocks has just been published in the Archives of Sexual Behaviour.The Sigman team reports that: (1) \"Argentinian males tended to define themselves as favouring breasts or buttocks\"; (2) \"the distribution was biased towards buttocks\"; and (3) individuals who say they prefer to gaze at one of those body parts behave as if they do.The British and Argentinian projects both exhibit indomitable focus. The authors and test subjects apparently refuse to let anything seriously distract them from what they want to study.(Thanks to Diego Golombeck for alerting me to the Argentinian study.)\u2022 Marc Abrahams is editor of the bimonthly Annals of Improbable Research and organiser of the Ig Nobel prize", "tags": ["Research", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Improbable research: buttock and breast ogling in Britain and Argentina"},{"date": "2012-04-17T20:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " Spain pledged to wage diplomatic and industrial war on Argentina after the country's populist president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, announced plans to nationalise the Spanish-owned part of oil company YPF.\"With this attitude, this hostility from the Argentine authorities, there will be consequences that we'll see over the next few days,\" industry minister Jos\u00e9 Manuel Soria pledged, calling it a hostile action against Spain. \"They will be in the diplomatic field, the industrial field and on energy.\" Retaliatory measures for the expropriation of the Spanish Repsol company's shares in YPF will be announced after a cabinet meeting on Friday, while the European Union was also pulled into the dispute.Spanish president Mariano Rajoy had blistering words for Fern\u00e1ndez, speaking at the World Economic Forum on Latin America in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. \"This damages Argentina's international reputation,\" said Rajoy. \"What happened yesterday could happen to any other investment.\" Spain's foreign minister, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo, claimed that Fern\u00e1ndez had originally planned to time her announcement to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Falklands war on 2 April.\"We expect Argentinian authorities to uphold their international commitments and obligations, in particular those resulting from a bilateral agreement on the protection on investments in Spain,\" said European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso. European foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton called off a meeting of the EU-Argentine joint committee on Thursday.A Chinese website, meanwhile, reported that Repsol had been preparing to sell YPF to the China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec) for $15bn. Repsol, which has Sinopec as a strategic partner in Brazil, did not comment on the claim. China has far greater clout than Spain in Argentina, whose economy is heavily dependent on soya exports to the Asian giant, leading to speculation that Fern\u00e1ndez might strike her own deal with Sinopec, effectively handing even greater control over Argentina's economy to Beijing.Repsol chairman Antonio Brufau accused Fern\u00e1ndez of trying to divert attention from her political troubles with the nationalisation and demanded the market rate of $10.5bn (\u00a36.6bn) for his firm.\"This is only a way of covering up the social and economic crisis Argentina is facing,\" said Brufau, pointing to high inflation and energy prices.Fern\u00e1ndez had accused the company of failing to invest in oil prospecting in the country after buying YPF from the state in 1999. But Brufau said it had invested $20bn. Repsol also claimed the recent discovery of abundant shale oil and gas reserves in the Vaca Muerta area of Argentina had sparked the takeover. Spanish analysts said price controls imposed by the Argentine government had made investment much less profitable for Repsol, although Repsol said 33.7% of the group's recent investments had been going to YPF, which provided 21% of the net income.Argentina's hydrocarbons output has been in decline for years at a time of strong demand from industry and consumers. Crude production fell 5.9% and natural gas output slipped 3.4% last year as power demand rose 5.1%, according to the Argentine Institute of Petroleum and Gas. YPF's proven reserves of crude and natural gas \u2013 which do not include the new shale finds \u2013 fell 15% and 31% respectively between 2007 and 2010. Imports of fuels such as liquefied natural gas and diesel doubled last year to about $9.4bn, eroding the country's trade surplus.Brufau was furious that Argentine officials had thrown Spanish executives out of the YPF headquarters in Buenos Aires. He pledged a legal battle at the United Nations and the World Bank against Fern\u00e1ndez, accusing her of being \"an expert manipulator\". \"She carried out an illegal act and made unlawful allegations which followed a campaign aimed at knocking down the price of YPF shares and allowing expropriation at a bargain price,\" he said.\"It will be a long (legal) battle,\" Brufau warned.Argentina has not said how much it intends to pay for YPF, which has 42% of Repsol's global reserves, but Brufau said Repsol's YPF stake was worth $10.5bn. Analysts, however, said it would probably be offered the much lower book value of about \u20ac4bn. (\u00a33.3bn).\"Repsol will not have much bargaining power given the limited legal recourse at its disposal,\" said Laurence Allan and Juliette Kerr of IHS Global Insight, pointing to Argentina's refusal to pay out on other World Bank arbitration claims. \"Yesterday's performance is a continuation of recent rhetoric over the Falkland Islands,\" they added.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"Argentina now runs the risk of scaring away other foreign investors needed to develop the larger Vaca Muerta area. Analysts said the move, announced live on television amid the increasingly populist and nationalist paraphernalia that accompanies Fern\u00e1ndez, would have far-reaching implications.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"The takeover of Repsol's shares in YPF will leave Argentina with a 51% stake in the company, Repsol with 6%, the Argentine group Petersen with 25%, with the remainder distributed among private shareholders. The company has more than 13,000 employees and had sales of $56bn last year, producing about 111 million barrels of oil last year with profits of more than $5bn.", "tags": ["Spain", "Argentina", "Oil", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Spain attacks Argentina over nationalisation of oil company YPF"},{"date": "2012-04-01T20:00:04Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Any \"acceptable settlement\" (The Falklands: 30 years on, 31 March) will recognise that the islands belong to Argentina, by virtue of the principle of uti possidetis juris.Following the British appropriation of Port Egmont in 1765, a Spanish military governor was appointed in 1767 to administer the islands. In 1776, by royal charter, the Spanish crown made the islands a commandery under the jurisdiction of the naval base at Montevideo, which reported to the government of Buenos Aires. Upon the May revolution in 1810, the latter took over all the territories of the viceroyalty of the Rio Plata, including the islands. Spanish administration of the islands was interrupted in 1811 and resumed in 1820. On 10 June 1829, decrees from Buenos Aires created the political and military commandery of the Malvinas islands and islands adjoining Cape Horn in the Atlantic Sea, under the commandership of Luis Vernet. The Argentinian administration was forcefully ended on 3 January 1833, by the arrival of HMS Clio.The above principle, as applied to territorial ownership and as affirmed repeatedly by the international court of justice, accords pre-eminence to legal title over effective possession as a basis of sovereignty.So the islanders have the security of Mount Pleasant defence but not of international law.Peter HamiltonMuch Marcle, Herefordshire\u2022 About the article published by Roger Edwards saying that \"no one listen to the islanders\" (Will no one listen to us Falkland Islanders?, 6 March), I wanted to talk about some of your statements. After our independence from Spain, which until then exercised legal dominion over the islands, the country inherited and maintained that domain with a small military garrison since 1820, as mentioned by Edwards.The expulsion of the Argentine authorities in 1833 was a use of force by a dominant power, Britain, against a recently formed country, as Argentina was. This display of power, which was immediately protested by the Argentine government, is the cause of the whole problem, and the reason why British people have been living in the island for more than 180 years. The British occupation resulted in a colony that prevented the development of Argentina's population, unlike what happened in Patagonia.Argentina does not have anything against the islanders, just that there is a long dispute over the territory in which they live, which began before their arrival. The reaffirmation of Argentina's position has its origin in the lack of British willingness to begin negotiations, and the subsequent consolidation of a status quo that only benefits Britain. All the steps taken by our democratic governments are contemplated as peaceful means, under international law and the United Nations Charter, and have the support of the international community, particularly in our region, which considers the Malvinas issue a remnant of colonialism.It is time for the islanders to understand that Argentina feels attacked when Britain declares that sovereignty over the islands is not open to discussion. Britain uses our natural resources and deploys military forces over a territory we claim as our own, and which no country in the world denies is under legal dispute, not even the US.It is clear that the world is heading towards the creation of integrated spaces, and the viability of states is directly related to their insertion into these spaces. We are therefore convinced that the future of the islands is objectively linked to South America.The planet we inhabit does not deserve hate, it deserves peace. If we ignore the feelings of hatred of the past and overcome our differences, we will soon realise we are part of the same fate.Carlos RaimundiMember of Argentina's parliament\u2022 As with Afghanistan, the great problem is that so many faultless servicemen and women and their families have lost their lives and loved ones fighting senseless wars, at the behest of bellicose politicians, that it is very hard to admit that such sacrifice has essentially been wasted. But just as we should clearly pull out and stay out of Afghanistan, we should equally take a hard-headed approach to the future of the Falklands. Imagine if, as a result of past colonial exploits, Argentina \"owned\" the Isle of Wight or the Isle of Man \u2013 what would we think then? It would be ridiculous, just as us \"owning\" the Falklands is.Yes, currently, it appears that a majority of the islanders want to remain \"British\" but this is not a realistic proposition. Instead we should do as we did with Hong Kong, set a date, say 30 years hence, when the islands would revert to Argentina and work constructively with all parties in the meantime to bring this about. Of course any Falkland Islanders and their families who wanted before \u2013 or at \u2013 that point to \"return\" to Britain should be enabled to do so. Thereafter, residents of the islands would be Argentinian citizens.John StrongmanManchesterArgentina may well have \"provoked\" war 30 years ago but it takes two to tango, and the worry is that, now that the Tories have finally been recognised for what they are, they could well be the willing partner again, repeating the Thatcher ploy of resorting to war to avoid humiliation at the polls. What are the odds on a Gulf of Tonkin-type incident in the South Atlantic in the next 12 months? Failing that, one in the Strait of Hormuz might serve the same purpose.Bernie EvansLiverpool", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Law", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "Letters: In principle, the Falkland Islands belong to Argentina"},{"date": "2012-06-14T18:30:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thirty years after liberating British forces hoisted the union flag in Stanley, the Falklands flag flew defiantly above 10 Downing Street on Thursday as David Cameron pledged to continue defending islanders from Argentina's \"aggressive threats\".Eight thousand miles away at the liberation monument in the Falklands' capital, veterans, widows, politicians and Falklanders braved thick snow at a wreath-laying commemoration and military parade on the anniversary of the end of the South Atlantic conflict.It was a day of high emotion, both in the UK and on the bleak, treeless islands, as heads were bowed in memory of the 255 British military and merchant navy personnel, the three Falkland islanders and estimated 650 Argentinian soldiers who died during the 74-day war.Three decades after Margaret Thatcher sent 27,000 troops and more than 100 ships to repel the invaders, Buenos Aires continues lay claim to the territory. But, Cameron stressed, Britain's resolve to support this remote British Overseas Territory \"has not wavered in the last 30 years and it will not in the years ahead\".Meanwhile, the Falklands' legislative assembly announced a referendum on its sovereignty, to be held next year, in a bid to cool the dispute between the UK and its South American neighbour.Argentina's president chose the 30th anniversary to attempt to press her country's claims to the islands they call the Malvinas before a United Nations committee on decolonisation.Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner told the 24-member committee in New York on Thursday night that distance undermined the UK's argument and accused Britain of abusing its privileged position as a permanent member of the UN security council.\"How can it be claimed that, 14,000 kilometres away, that it can be part of the British territory?\" she said. Fern\u00e1ndez insisted that Argentina just wanted to \"talk\" about the islands' sovereignty. \"Can someone in the modern world deny that possibility?\" she added.Her appearance was preceded by an advertisement, taken out in Thursday's Guardian newspaper, in which she described the Falklands as \"an anachronistic colonial case in the South Atlantic\".Claiming that the UK had refused to comply with UN resolutions requiring the UK and Argentina to \"negotiate a peaceful solution\", the notice said: \"We, Argentines, ask all of you \u2013 citizens and governments of the world \u2013 to put an end to colonialism and to demand compliance with UN resolutions.\"Cameron hit back at Buenos Aires in a speech on Thursday night at the annual Falkland islands government reception in London, warning Fern\u00e1ndez: \"When it comes to the sovereignty of the Falkland islands, there will be absolutely no negotiation. This is not some game of global Monopoly, with nations passing a territory between them.\"It's about the islanders determining their own future. This has been their home for almost 180 There are children whose ancestors have lived there for generations. The roots go deep, and they will not be ripped out.years.\" He added: \"So my message to the government of Argentina is this: the UK has no aggressive intentions towards you. Accusations of militarisation and nuclear threats are hyperbole and propaganda.\"But do not under-estimate our resolve. Threats will not work, attempts to intimidate the islanders will not succeed, because Britain stands ready and willing to stand up for the Falkland islanders at any time. As long as they wish to remain a British territory, that is the way it will stay.\"At the Downing Street ceremony the surrender of Argentinian commander General Mario Men\u00e9ndez to the British, Cameron said: \"For the last 180 years, 10 generations have called the Falkland Islands home and have strived hard to secure a prosperous future for their children. And despite the aggressive threats from over the water, they are succeeding. The Falklands economy is growing, the fishing industry is thriving and tourism is flourishing.\"Next year's referendum will establish the definitive choice of the Falkland Islanders once and for all. And just as we have stood up for the Falkland Islanders in the past, so we will in the future.\"Britain's UN ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, said it was \"very sad\" that \"the Argentinians for obviously purely domestic political reasons have hyped up the rhetoric in a massive way and are using every opportunity to try to internationalise the issue and get support from the regional organisations and make a song and dance at the UN\".At a thanksgiving service held at Stanley's Christ Church cathedral, memories were vivid of the day when Argentina's military dictatorship finally surrendered.\"Thirty years on, I've grown increasingly aware how very close to the surface all this has become again for many of you,\" the Rev Richard Hines told the packed congregation. \"This 30th anniversary is serving again to remind each one of you Falkland islanders just how much you endured and how \u2026 you found inner strength during 74 days of foreign occupation.\"Foreign Office minister Jeremy Browne, who attended the commemorations, said the islanders were \"enthusiastic\" about their liberation in 1982 and proud of the achievements of the British armed forces. \"It is also a commemorative event ... a more sombre reflection on the sacrifice on both sides,\" he said.Gavin Short, chairman of the Falklands' legislative assembly, accused the Argentinian government of deploying \"absurd\" and \"misleading rhetoric\" to the international community to imply that the islanders are \"being held hostage\" by the UK. Of the referendum, he said: \"I have no doubt that the people of the Falklands wish for the islands to remain a self-governing overseas territory of the United Kingdom\".Among commemorations held in Britain, paratrooopers paraded in their hometown of Colchester in tribute to the Parachute Regiment's involvement in the 1982 conflict.A Downing Street spokesman said the Falklands flag above No 10 was flown \"in tribute to all those who lost their lives in the conflict and in solidarity with the Falkland Islanders who continue to face aggressive threats from their neighbours across the water\".ends", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "David Cameron", "Politics", "United Nations"], "title": "Falklands mark 30th anniversary of war as Argentina ups claims for sovereignty"},{"date": "2012-05-30T11:11:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Policymakers in Europe seem to be surprised at the ongoing bank run in Greece (and the nascent run in Spain). They should not be. Anyone familiar with emerging-market meltdowns knows that a financial crisis nearly always follows a fiscal crisis.Argentina's default in 2001 is but one useful example. In the Argentine crisis, the economy contracted by 18% and unemployment soared to 22% of the labour force. Greece is already close to these levels.Argentina went through a complete and chaotic default on its public debt. In Greece, the \"haircut\" imposed on creditors so far has been managed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund. But, with debt still unsustainable, the next round of Greek default could well make Argentina's look positively Teutonic in its orderliness.In Argentina, the banking system came close to collapse, causing the government to ban bank withdrawals \u2013 introducing the so-called corralito, or bullpen, for deposits \u2013 and establishing capital controls. That could be the stage that Greece is entering now. So, if the precedent of the Argentine and other emerging-market crises is a useful guide, what could be in store for Greece next?To answer that question, it helps to recall the feedback loops that link fiscal and financial crises. Banks hold government and corporate loans as assets. Fiscal crisis and default reduce the value of the former, while the ensuing recession undermines the value of the latter.That is the link running from budget to bank problems. But there is a link going in the opposite direction as well: as banks deleverage to offset losses, they cut credit and the economy slows, causing government revenue to fall. If and when banks require a capital injection from public sources, the additional expenditure \u2013 which can be large \u2013 weakens public finances still further.These mutually reinforcing forces can work themselves out in a lengthy process of recession and deleveraging. Or they can prompt a sudden run on the banks, causing the financial system to implode. The outcome depends on confidence.Economists have long understood that, in the absence of a credible lender of last resort, banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises. That lender can be monetary or fiscal, and in Greece both types are in doubt.If Greece's agreement with the EU and the IMF unravels, the European Central Bank will no longer accept Greek bonds as collateral. And the Greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks. In these circumstances, it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of Greek banks.The Argentine experience suggests that, after the run on bank deposits, the saga's next instalment is monetary collapse. With revenues plummeting and credit cut off, the Argentine provinces had to resort to printing scrip to pay salaries and pensions. At one point, more than a dozen quasi-currencies were in circulation.What happens if Greece is cut off from EU and IMF credit? Optimists point out that the country is supposed to eliminate its primary deficit (the budget balance minus interest payments) by 2013, which implies that it could pay its non debt-related bills with its own resources after a default.But that view overestimates the state's capacity to collect revenues in the midst of a panic. With the economy in free fall and uncertainty pervasive, many households and firms simply stop paying taxes. So, even if the Greek government defaults on all of its debt, it might have no option but to print pieces of paper in order to meet its obligations.That would not constitute official abandonment of the euro, but, over time, the difference could become more formal than real. The newly issued scrip \u2013 call it the neo-drachma \u2013 would be tradable and highly liquid. Even if it traded at a deep discount, as it surely would, sooner rather than later it would likely be used for settling all kinds of transactions.Here, the Argentine story suggests, the mechanism loops back to the banks: firms soon start complaining that their income is now denominated in neo-drachmas while their loans remain in euros. They begin to demand loudly that the loans be neo-drachmatised (\"pesified\" in Argentine parlance). A parliament anxious for public approval is eager to meet these demands. But this only accelerates the run on the banks, as households and firms realise that no solid assets are backing their deposits.Paying public sector workers with depreciated neo-drachmas implies a cut in the real wages that they receive. The final step in the process comes with the neo-drachmatisation of private-sector wages. Firms again demand it, claiming that otherwise they cannot export. Unions initially oppose it, but eventually give in, spooked by the spectre of even greater unemployment. The promise of selective price controls sweetens the deal.How large will the devaluation of the neo-drachma be? In Argentina, the number of pesos needed to buy one dollar rose by more than 300%. Greece posted a current account deficit of nearly 10% of GDP in 2011, despite the domestic depression. The real devaluation necessary to restore external balance will be enormous, perhaps larger than that in Argentina.Greece now has its third government in less than a year, and a fourth is not far off. Argentina ran through four presidents in less than two years, before the political and economic situation stabilised. Greece, too, will eventually stabilise. At this point, that is just about the only hopeful precedent that the Argentine story holds.Copyright: Project Syndicate 2012", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "The Greek crisis: a cautionary tale from Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-28T15:30:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Sex clearly drives Britain and Argentina as they vie to dominate islands of interest. The two great nations are rivals in producing academic studies of whether and how people stare at women's breasts or buttocks.Britain fired the first shot in this war. In 2007, Adrian Furnham and Viren Swami of University College London published a report called Perception of Female Buttocks and Breast Size in Profile, in the journal Social Behaviour and Personality.Professor Furnham is, by his own reckoning, one of the most productive academics alive, publishing many hundreds of papers in dozens of far-flung fields.Professor Swami, now at the University of Westminster, also beavers relentlessly, both in Britain and abroad. He has launched treatises in topics from the physical attractiveness of women and men in London's boroughs to the opinions of Austrian students as to the personalities of butchers and hunters.The Furnham/Swami breast/buttocks paper gathers together many facts known only to a small number of specialists. Here's one. Furnham and Swami write: \"It is widely recognised, for example, that the African Hottentot (Caboid) tribe and certain tribes in the Andaman Islands show a preference for large fat deposits on the buttocks, a condition known as steatopygia. It has been suggested that such fat deposits on the buttocks and thighs may signal resource accrual\u2026\"Furnham and Swami studied the reactions of 114 British undergraduates \u2013 men and women. They write: \"The stimuli consisted of nine nude female silhouettes, prepared \u2026 in such a manner that the size of breasts and buttocks could be varied systematically.\" Their conclusion: \"The participants in this study showed a preference for small breast size, although buttocks size did not appear to alter ratings of attractiveness. It would be useful for future research to include a larger range of breast sizes and shapes \u2026 to investigate the possibility that optimal breast size \u2026 varies across individuals\".Argentina took five years to respond to this provocation.Mariano Sigman, director of the Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience at the University of Buenos Aires, and two collaborators concentrated their analytical firepower on male undergraduates. Their study called Eye Fixations Indicate Men's Preference for Female Breasts or Buttocks has just been published in the Archives of Sexual Behaviour.The Sigman team reports that: (1) \"Argentinian males tended to define themselves as favouring breasts or buttocks\"; (2) \"the distribution was biased towards buttocks\"; and (3) individuals who say they prefer to gaze at one of those body parts behave as if they do.The British and Argentinian projects both exhibit indomitable focus. The authors and test subjects apparently refuse to let anything seriously distract them from what they want to study.(Thanks to Diego Golombeck for alerting me to the Argentinian study.)\u2022 Marc Abrahams is editor of the bimonthly Annals of Improbable Research and organiser of the Ig Nobel prize", "tags": ["Research", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Improbable research: buttock and breast ogling in Britain and Argentina"},{"date": "2012-04-17T20:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " Spain pledged to wage diplomatic and industrial war on Argentina after the country's populist president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, announced plans to nationalise the Spanish-owned part of oil company YPF.\"With this attitude, this hostility from the Argentine authorities, there will be consequences that we'll see over the next few days,\" industry minister Jos\u00e9 Manuel Soria pledged, calling it a hostile action against Spain. \"They will be in the diplomatic field, the industrial field and on energy.\" Retaliatory measures for the expropriation of the Spanish Repsol company's shares in YPF will be announced after a cabinet meeting on Friday, while the European Union was also pulled into the dispute.Spanish president Mariano Rajoy had blistering words for Fern\u00e1ndez, speaking at the World Economic Forum on Latin America in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. \"This damages Argentina's international reputation,\" said Rajoy. \"What happened yesterday could happen to any other investment.\" Spain's foreign minister, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo, claimed that Fern\u00e1ndez had originally planned to time her announcement to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Falklands war on 2 April.\"We expect Argentinian authorities to uphold their international commitments and obligations, in particular those resulting from a bilateral agreement on the protection on investments in Spain,\" said European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso. European foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton called off a meeting of the EU-Argentine joint committee on Thursday.A Chinese website, meanwhile, reported that Repsol had been preparing to sell YPF to the China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec) for $15bn. Repsol, which has Sinopec as a strategic partner in Brazil, did not comment on the claim. China has far greater clout than Spain in Argentina, whose economy is heavily dependent on soya exports to the Asian giant, leading to speculation that Fern\u00e1ndez might strike her own deal with Sinopec, effectively handing even greater control over Argentina's economy to Beijing.Repsol chairman Antonio Brufau accused Fern\u00e1ndez of trying to divert attention from her political troubles with the nationalisation and demanded the market rate of $10.5bn (\u00a36.6bn) for his firm.\"This is only a way of covering up the social and economic crisis Argentina is facing,\" said Brufau, pointing to high inflation and energy prices.Fern\u00e1ndez had accused the company of failing to invest in oil prospecting in the country after buying YPF from the state in 1999. But Brufau said it had invested $20bn. Repsol also claimed the recent discovery of abundant shale oil and gas reserves in the Vaca Muerta area of Argentina had sparked the takeover. Spanish analysts said price controls imposed by the Argentine government had made investment much less profitable for Repsol, although Repsol said 33.7% of the group's recent investments had been going to YPF, which provided 21% of the net income.Argentina's hydrocarbons output has been in decline for years at a time of strong demand from industry and consumers. Crude production fell 5.9% and natural gas output slipped 3.4% last year as power demand rose 5.1%, according to the Argentine Institute of Petroleum and Gas. YPF's proven reserves of crude and natural gas \u2013 which do not include the new shale finds \u2013 fell 15% and 31% respectively between 2007 and 2010. Imports of fuels such as liquefied natural gas and diesel doubled last year to about $9.4bn, eroding the country's trade surplus.Brufau was furious that Argentine officials had thrown Spanish executives out of the YPF headquarters in Buenos Aires. He pledged a legal battle at the United Nations and the World Bank against Fern\u00e1ndez, accusing her of being \"an expert manipulator\". \"She carried out an illegal act and made unlawful allegations which followed a campaign aimed at knocking down the price of YPF shares and allowing expropriation at a bargain price,\" he said.\"It will be a long (legal) battle,\" Brufau warned.Argentina has not said how much it intends to pay for YPF, which has 42% of Repsol's global reserves, but Brufau said Repsol's YPF stake was worth $10.5bn. Analysts, however, said it would probably be offered the much lower book value of about \u20ac4bn. (\u00a33.3bn).\"Repsol will not have much bargaining power given the limited legal recourse at its disposal,\" said Laurence Allan and Juliette Kerr of IHS Global Insight, pointing to Argentina's refusal to pay out on other World Bank arbitration claims. \"Yesterday's performance is a continuation of recent rhetoric over the Falkland Islands,\" they added.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"Argentina now runs the risk of scaring away other foreign investors needed to develop the larger Vaca Muerta area. Analysts said the move, announced live on television amid the increasingly populist and nationalist paraphernalia that accompanies Fern\u00e1ndez, would have far-reaching implications.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"The takeover of Repsol's shares in YPF will leave Argentina with a 51% stake in the company, Repsol with 6%, the Argentine group Petersen with 25%, with the remainder distributed among private shareholders. The company has more than 13,000 employees and had sales of $56bn last year, producing about 111 million barrels of oil last year with profits of more than $5bn.", "tags": ["Spain", "Argentina", "Oil", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Spain attacks Argentina over nationalisation of oil company YPF"},{"date": "2012-04-01T20:00:04Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Any \"acceptable settlement\" (The Falklands: 30 years on, 31 March) will recognise that the islands belong to Argentina, by virtue of the principle of uti possidetis juris.Following the British appropriation of Port Egmont in 1765, a Spanish military governor was appointed in 1767 to administer the islands. In 1776, by royal charter, the Spanish crown made the islands a commandery under the jurisdiction of the naval base at Montevideo, which reported to the government of Buenos Aires. Upon the May revolution in 1810, the latter took over all the territories of the viceroyalty of the Rio Plata, including the islands. Spanish administration of the islands was interrupted in 1811 and resumed in 1820. On 10 June 1829, decrees from Buenos Aires created the political and military commandery of the Malvinas islands and islands adjoining Cape Horn in the Atlantic Sea, under the commandership of Luis Vernet. The Argentinian administration was forcefully ended on 3 January 1833, by the arrival of HMS Clio.The above principle, as applied to territorial ownership and as affirmed repeatedly by the international court of justice, accords pre-eminence to legal title over effective possession as a basis of sovereignty.So the islanders have the security of Mount Pleasant defence but not of international law.Peter HamiltonMuch Marcle, Herefordshire\u2022 About the article published by Roger Edwards saying that \"no one listen to the islanders\" (Will no one listen to us Falkland Islanders?, 6 March), I wanted to talk about some of your statements. After our independence from Spain, which until then exercised legal dominion over the islands, the country inherited and maintained that domain with a small military garrison since 1820, as mentioned by Edwards.The expulsion of the Argentine authorities in 1833 was a use of force by a dominant power, Britain, against a recently formed country, as Argentina was. This display of power, which was immediately protested by the Argentine government, is the cause of the whole problem, and the reason why British people have been living in the island for more than 180 years. The British occupation resulted in a colony that prevented the development of Argentina's population, unlike what happened in Patagonia.Argentina does not have anything against the islanders, just that there is a long dispute over the territory in which they live, which began before their arrival. The reaffirmation of Argentina's position has its origin in the lack of British willingness to begin negotiations, and the subsequent consolidation of a status quo that only benefits Britain. All the steps taken by our democratic governments are contemplated as peaceful means, under international law and the United Nations Charter, and have the support of the international community, particularly in our region, which considers the Malvinas issue a remnant of colonialism.It is time for the islanders to understand that Argentina feels attacked when Britain declares that sovereignty over the islands is not open to discussion. Britain uses our natural resources and deploys military forces over a territory we claim as our own, and which no country in the world denies is under legal dispute, not even the US.It is clear that the world is heading towards the creation of integrated spaces, and the viability of states is directly related to their insertion into these spaces. We are therefore convinced that the future of the islands is objectively linked to South America.The planet we inhabit does not deserve hate, it deserves peace. If we ignore the feelings of hatred of the past and overcome our differences, we will soon realise we are part of the same fate.Carlos RaimundiMember of Argentina's parliament\u2022 As with Afghanistan, the great problem is that so many faultless servicemen and women and their families have lost their lives and loved ones fighting senseless wars, at the behest of bellicose politicians, that it is very hard to admit that such sacrifice has essentially been wasted. But just as we should clearly pull out and stay out of Afghanistan, we should equally take a hard-headed approach to the future of the Falklands. Imagine if, as a result of past colonial exploits, Argentina \"owned\" the Isle of Wight or the Isle of Man \u2013 what would we think then? It would be ridiculous, just as us \"owning\" the Falklands is.Yes, currently, it appears that a majority of the islanders want to remain \"British\" but this is not a realistic proposition. Instead we should do as we did with Hong Kong, set a date, say 30 years hence, when the islands would revert to Argentina and work constructively with all parties in the meantime to bring this about. Of course any Falkland Islanders and their families who wanted before \u2013 or at \u2013 that point to \"return\" to Britain should be enabled to do so. Thereafter, residents of the islands would be Argentinian citizens.John StrongmanManchesterArgentina may well have \"provoked\" war 30 years ago but it takes two to tango, and the worry is that, now that the Tories have finally been recognised for what they are, they could well be the willing partner again, repeating the Thatcher ploy of resorting to war to avoid humiliation at the polls. What are the odds on a Gulf of Tonkin-type incident in the South Atlantic in the next 12 months? Failing that, one in the Strait of Hormuz might serve the same purpose.Bernie EvansLiverpool", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Law", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "Letters: In principle, the Falkland Islands belong to Argentina"},{"date": "2012-06-14T18:30:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thirty years after liberating British forces hoisted the union flag in Stanley, the Falklands flag flew defiantly above 10 Downing Street on Thursday as David Cameron pledged to continue defending islanders from Argentina's \"aggressive threats\".Eight thousand miles away at the liberation monument in the Falklands' capital, veterans, widows, politicians and Falklanders braved thick snow at a wreath-laying commemoration and military parade on the anniversary of the end of the South Atlantic conflict.It was a day of high emotion, both in the UK and on the bleak, treeless islands, as heads were bowed in memory of the 255 British military and merchant navy personnel, the three Falkland islanders and estimated 650 Argentinian soldiers who died during the 74-day war.Three decades after Margaret Thatcher sent 27,000 troops and more than 100 ships to repel the invaders, Buenos Aires continues lay claim to the territory. But, Cameron stressed, Britain's resolve to support this remote British Overseas Territory \"has not wavered in the last 30 years and it will not in the years ahead\".Meanwhile, the Falklands' legislative assembly announced a referendum on its sovereignty, to be held next year, in a bid to cool the dispute between the UK and its South American neighbour.Argentina's president chose the 30th anniversary to attempt to press her country's claims to the islands they call the Malvinas before a United Nations committee on decolonisation.Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner told the 24-member committee in New York on Thursday night that distance undermined the UK's argument and accused Britain of abusing its privileged position as a permanent member of the UN security council.\"How can it be claimed that, 14,000 kilometres away, that it can be part of the British territory?\" she said. Fern\u00e1ndez insisted that Argentina just wanted to \"talk\" about the islands' sovereignty. \"Can someone in the modern world deny that possibility?\" she added.Her appearance was preceded by an advertisement, taken out in Thursday's Guardian newspaper, in which she described the Falklands as \"an anachronistic colonial case in the South Atlantic\".Claiming that the UK had refused to comply with UN resolutions requiring the UK and Argentina to \"negotiate a peaceful solution\", the notice said: \"We, Argentines, ask all of you \u2013 citizens and governments of the world \u2013 to put an end to colonialism and to demand compliance with UN resolutions.\"Cameron hit back at Buenos Aires in a speech on Thursday night at the annual Falkland islands government reception in London, warning Fern\u00e1ndez: \"When it comes to the sovereignty of the Falkland islands, there will be absolutely no negotiation. This is not some game of global Monopoly, with nations passing a territory between them.\"It's about the islanders determining their own future. This has been their home for almost 180 There are children whose ancestors have lived there for generations. The roots go deep, and they will not be ripped out.years.\" He added: \"So my message to the government of Argentina is this: the UK has no aggressive intentions towards you. Accusations of militarisation and nuclear threats are hyperbole and propaganda.\"But do not under-estimate our resolve. Threats will not work, attempts to intimidate the islanders will not succeed, because Britain stands ready and willing to stand up for the Falkland islanders at any time. As long as they wish to remain a British territory, that is the way it will stay.\"At the Downing Street ceremony the surrender of Argentinian commander General Mario Men\u00e9ndez to the British, Cameron said: \"For the last 180 years, 10 generations have called the Falkland Islands home and have strived hard to secure a prosperous future for their children. And despite the aggressive threats from over the water, they are succeeding. The Falklands economy is growing, the fishing industry is thriving and tourism is flourishing.\"Next year's referendum will establish the definitive choice of the Falkland Islanders once and for all. And just as we have stood up for the Falkland Islanders in the past, so we will in the future.\"Britain's UN ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, said it was \"very sad\" that \"the Argentinians for obviously purely domestic political reasons have hyped up the rhetoric in a massive way and are using every opportunity to try to internationalise the issue and get support from the regional organisations and make a song and dance at the UN\".At a thanksgiving service held at Stanley's Christ Church cathedral, memories were vivid of the day when Argentina's military dictatorship finally surrendered.\"Thirty years on, I've grown increasingly aware how very close to the surface all this has become again for many of you,\" the Rev Richard Hines told the packed congregation. \"This 30th anniversary is serving again to remind each one of you Falkland islanders just how much you endured and how \u2026 you found inner strength during 74 days of foreign occupation.\"Foreign Office minister Jeremy Browne, who attended the commemorations, said the islanders were \"enthusiastic\" about their liberation in 1982 and proud of the achievements of the British armed forces. \"It is also a commemorative event ... a more sombre reflection on the sacrifice on both sides,\" he said.Gavin Short, chairman of the Falklands' legislative assembly, accused the Argentinian government of deploying \"absurd\" and \"misleading rhetoric\" to the international community to imply that the islanders are \"being held hostage\" by the UK. Of the referendum, he said: \"I have no doubt that the people of the Falklands wish for the islands to remain a self-governing overseas territory of the United Kingdom\".Among commemorations held in Britain, paratrooopers paraded in their hometown of Colchester in tribute to the Parachute Regiment's involvement in the 1982 conflict.A Downing Street spokesman said the Falklands flag above No 10 was flown \"in tribute to all those who lost their lives in the conflict and in solidarity with the Falkland Islanders who continue to face aggressive threats from their neighbours across the water\".ends", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "David Cameron", "Politics", "United Nations"], "title": "Falklands mark 30th anniversary of war as Argentina ups claims for sovereignty"},{"date": "2012-05-04T18:59:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the great myths about the Argentine economy that is repeated nearly every day is that the rapid growth of the Argentine economy during the past decade has been a \"commodity export boom\". For example, the New York Times reported last week:\"Riding an export boom for commodities like soybeans, Argentina's economy grew at an average rate of 7.7% from 2004 to 2010, almost twice the average annual growth of 4.3% in Chile, a country often cited as a model for economic policies, over the same period.\"Michael Shifter, the president of the inter-American dialogue and probably the most quoted source on Latin America in the US press, wrote in a disparaging article about Argentina this week that \"If the sales and price of soybean, Argentina's principal export (mainly to China), remain high, then the country may be able to continue its path of economic growth.\"I haven't seen any economists make the claim that Argentina's remarkable economic growth over the past nine years \u2013 which has brought record levels of employment and a two-thirds reduction in poverty \u2013 has been driven by soybeans or a commodities export boom. Maybe that is because it is not true. I know what you're thinking: \"Who cares?\" Well, try to keep reading, because this does have implications beyond the sprawling soybean farms in the Argentine province of Cordoba.What does it mean to have a \"commodities boom\", or growth driven by the export of commodities? One possibility would be based on quantity: the production and export of these commodities grows so fast that it makes up a large part of the country's real growth in output. Thus, as a matter of accounting, we could look at real GDP growth for 2002-2010, the last year for which we have complete data on exports, and ask, how much of this real, inflation-adjusted, growth is due to exports of commodities? It turns out that only 12% of Argentina's real GDP growth during this period was due to any kind of exports at all. And just a fraction of this 12% was due to commodity exports, including soybeans. So Argentina's economic growth from 2002-2010 was not an export-led growth experience, by any stretch of the imagination, still less, a \"commodities boom\".The other possibility is based on prices: the price of soybeans and other commodity exports also rose during part of this period. This can boost the economy in various ways, even if the physical amount of exports does not increase as rapidly as the economy. If this were driving Argentina's growth, we would expect the dollar value of these exports to have grown faster than the rest of the economy. But this did not happen either. The value of agricultural exports, including of course soybeans, as a percent of Argentina's GDP didn't rise during the expansion. It was about 5% of GDP when the economy started growing in 2002, and 3.7% of GDP in 2010. In other words, there is no plausible story that anyone can tell from the data to support the idea that Argentina's growth over the past nine years was driven by a \"commodities boom.\" Why does this matter? Well, as economist Paul Krugman noted yesterday, \"articles about Argentina are almost always very negative in tone \u2015 they are irresponsible, they are renationalizing some industries, they talk populist, so they must be going very badly.\" Which, he points out, \"doesn't speak well for the state of economics reporting.\" It sure doesn't.The myth of the \"commodities export boom\" is one way that Argentina's detractors dismiss Argentina's economic growth as just dumb luck. But the reality is that the economic expansion has been < a href=\"http://www.cepr.net/index.php/publications/reports/the-argentine-success-story-and-its-implications\">led by domestic consumption and investment. And it happened because the Argentine government changed its most important macroeconomic choices: on fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policies. That is what took Argentina out of its 1998-2002 depression and turned it into the fastest-growing economy in the Americas.Now for the world-wide significance of how Argentina's recovery actually happened: as I and many other economists have written, the policies currently being imposed on the eurozone economies \u2013 especially the weaker ones \u2013 are similar to what Argentina went through during the depression that led to its default and devaluation. These policies were pro-cyclical, meaning that they amplified the impact of the downturn. Together with a fixed, overvalued exchange rate, they made the economy worse. By defaulting on its debt and devaluing its currency, Argentina was freed to change its most important macroeconomic policies. If the European authorities (the European Commission, the European Central Bank, and the IMF) continue to block the eurozone's economic recovery with senseless austerity measures, individual countries will want to consider more rational alternatives in order to restore full employment. The people of Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and other countries are told every day that they must swallow this bitter medicine, and that there is no alternative to the prolonged suffering and high unemployment that they are going through. But the Argentine experience \u2013 in reality rather than in mythical portrayals \u2013 indicates that this is not true. There are definitely better alternatives \u2013 and they have nothing to do with soybeans or commodity export booms.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Economics", "Farming", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "Argentina and the magic soybean: the commodity export boom that wasn't | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2012-05-30T11:11:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Policymakers in Europe seem to be surprised at the ongoing bank run in Greece (and the nascent run in Spain). They should not be. Anyone familiar with emerging-market meltdowns knows that a financial crisis nearly always follows a fiscal crisis.Argentina's default in 2001 is but one useful example. In the Argentine crisis, the economy contracted by 18% and unemployment soared to 22% of the labour force. Greece is already close to these levels.Argentina went through a complete and chaotic default on its public debt. In Greece, the \"haircut\" imposed on creditors so far has been managed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund. But, with debt still unsustainable, the next round of Greek default could well make Argentina's look positively Teutonic in its orderliness.In Argentina, the banking system came close to collapse, causing the government to ban bank withdrawals \u2013 introducing the so-called corralito, or bullpen, for deposits \u2013 and establishing capital controls. That could be the stage that Greece is entering now. So, if the precedent of the Argentine and other emerging-market crises is a useful guide, what could be in store for Greece next?To answer that question, it helps to recall the feedback loops that link fiscal and financial crises. Banks hold government and corporate loans as assets. Fiscal crisis and default reduce the value of the former, while the ensuing recession undermines the value of the latter.That is the link running from budget to bank problems. But there is a link going in the opposite direction as well: as banks deleverage to offset losses, they cut credit and the economy slows, causing government revenue to fall. If and when banks require a capital injection from public sources, the additional expenditure \u2013 which can be large \u2013 weakens public finances still further.These mutually reinforcing forces can work themselves out in a lengthy process of recession and deleveraging. Or they can prompt a sudden run on the banks, causing the financial system to implode. The outcome depends on confidence.Economists have long understood that, in the absence of a credible lender of last resort, banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises. That lender can be monetary or fiscal, and in Greece both types are in doubt.If Greece's agreement with the EU and the IMF unravels, the European Central Bank will no longer accept Greek bonds as collateral. And the Greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks. In these circumstances, it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of Greek banks.The Argentine experience suggests that, after the run on bank deposits, the saga's next instalment is monetary collapse. With revenues plummeting and credit cut off, the Argentine provinces had to resort to printing scrip to pay salaries and pensions. At one point, more than a dozen quasi-currencies were in circulation.What happens if Greece is cut off from EU and IMF credit? Optimists point out that the country is supposed to eliminate its primary deficit (the budget balance minus interest payments) by 2013, which implies that it could pay its non debt-related bills with its own resources after a default.But that view overestimates the state's capacity to collect revenues in the midst of a panic. With the economy in free fall and uncertainty pervasive, many households and firms simply stop paying taxes. So, even if the Greek government defaults on all of its debt, it might have no option but to print pieces of paper in order to meet its obligations.That would not constitute official abandonment of the euro, but, over time, the difference could become more formal than real. The newly issued scrip \u2013 call it the neo-drachma \u2013 would be tradable and highly liquid. Even if it traded at a deep discount, as it surely would, sooner rather than later it would likely be used for settling all kinds of transactions.Here, the Argentine story suggests, the mechanism loops back to the banks: firms soon start complaining that their income is now denominated in neo-drachmas while their loans remain in euros. They begin to demand loudly that the loans be neo-drachmatised (\"pesified\" in Argentine parlance). A parliament anxious for public approval is eager to meet these demands. But this only accelerates the run on the banks, as households and firms realise that no solid assets are backing their deposits.Paying public sector workers with depreciated neo-drachmas implies a cut in the real wages that they receive. The final step in the process comes with the neo-drachmatisation of private-sector wages. Firms again demand it, claiming that otherwise they cannot export. Unions initially oppose it, but eventually give in, spooked by the spectre of even greater unemployment. The promise of selective price controls sweetens the deal.How large will the devaluation of the neo-drachma be? In Argentina, the number of pesos needed to buy one dollar rose by more than 300%. Greece posted a current account deficit of nearly 10% of GDP in 2011, despite the domestic depression. The real devaluation necessary to restore external balance will be enormous, perhaps larger than that in Argentina.Greece now has its third government in less than a year, and a fourth is not far off. Argentina ran through four presidents in less than two years, before the political and economic situation stabilised. Greece, too, will eventually stabilise. At this point, that is just about the only hopeful precedent that the Argentine story holds.Copyright: Project Syndicate 2012", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "The Greek crisis: a cautionary tale from Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-28T15:30:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Sex clearly drives Britain and Argentina as they vie to dominate islands of interest. The two great nations are rivals in producing academic studies of whether and how people stare at women's breasts or buttocks.Britain fired the first shot in this war. In 2007, Adrian Furnham and Viren Swami of University College London published a report called Perception of Female Buttocks and Breast Size in Profile, in the journal Social Behaviour and Personality.Professor Furnham is, by his own reckoning, one of the most productive academics alive, publishing many hundreds of papers in dozens of far-flung fields.Professor Swami, now at the University of Westminster, also beavers relentlessly, both in Britain and abroad. He has launched treatises in topics from the physical attractiveness of women and men in London's boroughs to the opinions of Austrian students as to the personalities of butchers and hunters.The Furnham/Swami breast/buttocks paper gathers together many facts known only to a small number of specialists. Here's one. Furnham and Swami write: \"It is widely recognised, for example, that the African Hottentot (Caboid) tribe and certain tribes in the Andaman Islands show a preference for large fat deposits on the buttocks, a condition known as steatopygia. It has been suggested that such fat deposits on the buttocks and thighs may signal resource accrual\u2026\"Furnham and Swami studied the reactions of 114 British undergraduates \u2013 men and women. They write: \"The stimuli consisted of nine nude female silhouettes, prepared \u2026 in such a manner that the size of breasts and buttocks could be varied systematically.\" Their conclusion: \"The participants in this study showed a preference for small breast size, although buttocks size did not appear to alter ratings of attractiveness. It would be useful for future research to include a larger range of breast sizes and shapes \u2026 to investigate the possibility that optimal breast size \u2026 varies across individuals\".Argentina took five years to respond to this provocation.Mariano Sigman, director of the Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience at the University of Buenos Aires, and two collaborators concentrated their analytical firepower on male undergraduates. Their study called Eye Fixations Indicate Men's Preference for Female Breasts or Buttocks has just been published in the Archives of Sexual Behaviour.The Sigman team reports that: (1) \"Argentinian males tended to define themselves as favouring breasts or buttocks\"; (2) \"the distribution was biased towards buttocks\"; and (3) individuals who say they prefer to gaze at one of those body parts behave as if they do.The British and Argentinian projects both exhibit indomitable focus. The authors and test subjects apparently refuse to let anything seriously distract them from what they want to study.(Thanks to Diego Golombeck for alerting me to the Argentinian study.)\u2022 Marc Abrahams is editor of the bimonthly Annals of Improbable Research and organiser of the Ig Nobel prize", "tags": ["Research", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Improbable research: buttock and breast ogling in Britain and Argentina"},{"date": "2012-04-17T20:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " Spain pledged to wage diplomatic and industrial war on Argentina after the country's populist president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, announced plans to nationalise the Spanish-owned part of oil company YPF.\"With this attitude, this hostility from the Argentine authorities, there will be consequences that we'll see over the next few days,\" industry minister Jos\u00e9 Manuel Soria pledged, calling it a hostile action against Spain. \"They will be in the diplomatic field, the industrial field and on energy.\" Retaliatory measures for the expropriation of the Spanish Repsol company's shares in YPF will be announced after a cabinet meeting on Friday, while the European Union was also pulled into the dispute.Spanish president Mariano Rajoy had blistering words for Fern\u00e1ndez, speaking at the World Economic Forum on Latin America in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. \"This damages Argentina's international reputation,\" said Rajoy. \"What happened yesterday could happen to any other investment.\" Spain's foreign minister, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo, claimed that Fern\u00e1ndez had originally planned to time her announcement to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Falklands war on 2 April.\"We expect Argentinian authorities to uphold their international commitments and obligations, in particular those resulting from a bilateral agreement on the protection on investments in Spain,\" said European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso. European foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton called off a meeting of the EU-Argentine joint committee on Thursday.A Chinese website, meanwhile, reported that Repsol had been preparing to sell YPF to the China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec) for $15bn. Repsol, which has Sinopec as a strategic partner in Brazil, did not comment on the claim. China has far greater clout than Spain in Argentina, whose economy is heavily dependent on soya exports to the Asian giant, leading to speculation that Fern\u00e1ndez might strike her own deal with Sinopec, effectively handing even greater control over Argentina's economy to Beijing.Repsol chairman Antonio Brufau accused Fern\u00e1ndez of trying to divert attention from her political troubles with the nationalisation and demanded the market rate of $10.5bn (\u00a36.6bn) for his firm.\"This is only a way of covering up the social and economic crisis Argentina is facing,\" said Brufau, pointing to high inflation and energy prices.Fern\u00e1ndez had accused the company of failing to invest in oil prospecting in the country after buying YPF from the state in 1999. But Brufau said it had invested $20bn. Repsol also claimed the recent discovery of abundant shale oil and gas reserves in the Vaca Muerta area of Argentina had sparked the takeover. Spanish analysts said price controls imposed by the Argentine government had made investment much less profitable for Repsol, although Repsol said 33.7% of the group's recent investments had been going to YPF, which provided 21% of the net income.Argentina's hydrocarbons output has been in decline for years at a time of strong demand from industry and consumers. Crude production fell 5.9% and natural gas output slipped 3.4% last year as power demand rose 5.1%, according to the Argentine Institute of Petroleum and Gas. YPF's proven reserves of crude and natural gas \u2013 which do not include the new shale finds \u2013 fell 15% and 31% respectively between 2007 and 2010. Imports of fuels such as liquefied natural gas and diesel doubled last year to about $9.4bn, eroding the country's trade surplus.Brufau was furious that Argentine officials had thrown Spanish executives out of the YPF headquarters in Buenos Aires. He pledged a legal battle at the United Nations and the World Bank against Fern\u00e1ndez, accusing her of being \"an expert manipulator\". \"She carried out an illegal act and made unlawful allegations which followed a campaign aimed at knocking down the price of YPF shares and allowing expropriation at a bargain price,\" he said.\"It will be a long (legal) battle,\" Brufau warned.Argentina has not said how much it intends to pay for YPF, which has 42% of Repsol's global reserves, but Brufau said Repsol's YPF stake was worth $10.5bn. Analysts, however, said it would probably be offered the much lower book value of about \u20ac4bn. (\u00a33.3bn).\"Repsol will not have much bargaining power given the limited legal recourse at its disposal,\" said Laurence Allan and Juliette Kerr of IHS Global Insight, pointing to Argentina's refusal to pay out on other World Bank arbitration claims. \"Yesterday's performance is a continuation of recent rhetoric over the Falkland Islands,\" they added.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"Argentina now runs the risk of scaring away other foreign investors needed to develop the larger Vaca Muerta area. Analysts said the move, announced live on television amid the increasingly populist and nationalist paraphernalia that accompanies Fern\u00e1ndez, would have far-reaching implications.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"The takeover of Repsol's shares in YPF will leave Argentina with a 51% stake in the company, Repsol with 6%, the Argentine group Petersen with 25%, with the remainder distributed among private shareholders. The company has more than 13,000 employees and had sales of $56bn last year, producing about 111 million barrels of oil last year with profits of more than $5bn.", "tags": ["Spain", "Argentina", "Oil", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Spain attacks Argentina over nationalisation of oil company YPF"},{"date": "2012-04-01T20:00:04Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Any \"acceptable settlement\" (The Falklands: 30 years on, 31 March) will recognise that the islands belong to Argentina, by virtue of the principle of uti possidetis juris.Following the British appropriation of Port Egmont in 1765, a Spanish military governor was appointed in 1767 to administer the islands. In 1776, by royal charter, the Spanish crown made the islands a commandery under the jurisdiction of the naval base at Montevideo, which reported to the government of Buenos Aires. Upon the May revolution in 1810, the latter took over all the territories of the viceroyalty of the Rio Plata, including the islands. Spanish administration of the islands was interrupted in 1811 and resumed in 1820. On 10 June 1829, decrees from Buenos Aires created the political and military commandery of the Malvinas islands and islands adjoining Cape Horn in the Atlantic Sea, under the commandership of Luis Vernet. The Argentinian administration was forcefully ended on 3 January 1833, by the arrival of HMS Clio.The above principle, as applied to territorial ownership and as affirmed repeatedly by the international court of justice, accords pre-eminence to legal title over effective possession as a basis of sovereignty.So the islanders have the security of Mount Pleasant defence but not of international law.Peter HamiltonMuch Marcle, Herefordshire\u2022 About the article published by Roger Edwards saying that \"no one listen to the islanders\" (Will no one listen to us Falkland Islanders?, 6 March), I wanted to talk about some of your statements. After our independence from Spain, which until then exercised legal dominion over the islands, the country inherited and maintained that domain with a small military garrison since 1820, as mentioned by Edwards.The expulsion of the Argentine authorities in 1833 was a use of force by a dominant power, Britain, against a recently formed country, as Argentina was. This display of power, which was immediately protested by the Argentine government, is the cause of the whole problem, and the reason why British people have been living in the island for more than 180 years. The British occupation resulted in a colony that prevented the development of Argentina's population, unlike what happened in Patagonia.Argentina does not have anything against the islanders, just that there is a long dispute over the territory in which they live, which began before their arrival. The reaffirmation of Argentina's position has its origin in the lack of British willingness to begin negotiations, and the subsequent consolidation of a status quo that only benefits Britain. All the steps taken by our democratic governments are contemplated as peaceful means, under international law and the United Nations Charter, and have the support of the international community, particularly in our region, which considers the Malvinas issue a remnant of colonialism.It is time for the islanders to understand that Argentina feels attacked when Britain declares that sovereignty over the islands is not open to discussion. Britain uses our natural resources and deploys military forces over a territory we claim as our own, and which no country in the world denies is under legal dispute, not even the US.It is clear that the world is heading towards the creation of integrated spaces, and the viability of states is directly related to their insertion into these spaces. We are therefore convinced that the future of the islands is objectively linked to South America.The planet we inhabit does not deserve hate, it deserves peace. If we ignore the feelings of hatred of the past and overcome our differences, we will soon realise we are part of the same fate.Carlos RaimundiMember of Argentina's parliament\u2022 As with Afghanistan, the great problem is that so many faultless servicemen and women and their families have lost their lives and loved ones fighting senseless wars, at the behest of bellicose politicians, that it is very hard to admit that such sacrifice has essentially been wasted. But just as we should clearly pull out and stay out of Afghanistan, we should equally take a hard-headed approach to the future of the Falklands. Imagine if, as a result of past colonial exploits, Argentina \"owned\" the Isle of Wight or the Isle of Man \u2013 what would we think then? It would be ridiculous, just as us \"owning\" the Falklands is.Yes, currently, it appears that a majority of the islanders want to remain \"British\" but this is not a realistic proposition. Instead we should do as we did with Hong Kong, set a date, say 30 years hence, when the islands would revert to Argentina and work constructively with all parties in the meantime to bring this about. Of course any Falkland Islanders and their families who wanted before \u2013 or at \u2013 that point to \"return\" to Britain should be enabled to do so. Thereafter, residents of the islands would be Argentinian citizens.John StrongmanManchesterArgentina may well have \"provoked\" war 30 years ago but it takes two to tango, and the worry is that, now that the Tories have finally been recognised for what they are, they could well be the willing partner again, repeating the Thatcher ploy of resorting to war to avoid humiliation at the polls. What are the odds on a Gulf of Tonkin-type incident in the South Atlantic in the next 12 months? Failing that, one in the Strait of Hormuz might serve the same purpose.Bernie EvansLiverpool", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Law", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "Letters: In principle, the Falkland Islands belong to Argentina"},{"date": "2012-06-14T18:30:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thirty years after liberating British forces hoisted the union flag in Stanley, the Falklands flag flew defiantly above 10 Downing Street on Thursday as David Cameron pledged to continue defending islanders from Argentina's \"aggressive threats\".Eight thousand miles away at the liberation monument in the Falklands' capital, veterans, widows, politicians and Falklanders braved thick snow at a wreath-laying commemoration and military parade on the anniversary of the end of the South Atlantic conflict.It was a day of high emotion, both in the UK and on the bleak, treeless islands, as heads were bowed in memory of the 255 British military and merchant navy personnel, the three Falkland islanders and estimated 650 Argentinian soldiers who died during the 74-day war.Three decades after Margaret Thatcher sent 27,000 troops and more than 100 ships to repel the invaders, Buenos Aires continues lay claim to the territory. But, Cameron stressed, Britain's resolve to support this remote British Overseas Territory \"has not wavered in the last 30 years and it will not in the years ahead\".Meanwhile, the Falklands' legislative assembly announced a referendum on its sovereignty, to be held next year, in a bid to cool the dispute between the UK and its South American neighbour.Argentina's president chose the 30th anniversary to attempt to press her country's claims to the islands they call the Malvinas before a United Nations committee on decolonisation.Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner told the 24-member committee in New York on Thursday night that distance undermined the UK's argument and accused Britain of abusing its privileged position as a permanent member of the UN security council.\"How can it be claimed that, 14,000 kilometres away, that it can be part of the British territory?\" she said. Fern\u00e1ndez insisted that Argentina just wanted to \"talk\" about the islands' sovereignty. \"Can someone in the modern world deny that possibility?\" she added.Her appearance was preceded by an advertisement, taken out in Thursday's Guardian newspaper, in which she described the Falklands as \"an anachronistic colonial case in the South Atlantic\".Claiming that the UK had refused to comply with UN resolutions requiring the UK and Argentina to \"negotiate a peaceful solution\", the notice said: \"We, Argentines, ask all of you \u2013 citizens and governments of the world \u2013 to put an end to colonialism and to demand compliance with UN resolutions.\"Cameron hit back at Buenos Aires in a speech on Thursday night at the annual Falkland islands government reception in London, warning Fern\u00e1ndez: \"When it comes to the sovereignty of the Falkland islands, there will be absolutely no negotiation. This is not some game of global Monopoly, with nations passing a territory between them.\"It's about the islanders determining their own future. This has been their home for almost 180 There are children whose ancestors have lived there for generations. The roots go deep, and they will not be ripped out.years.\" He added: \"So my message to the government of Argentina is this: the UK has no aggressive intentions towards you. Accusations of militarisation and nuclear threats are hyperbole and propaganda.\"But do not under-estimate our resolve. Threats will not work, attempts to intimidate the islanders will not succeed, because Britain stands ready and willing to stand up for the Falkland islanders at any time. As long as they wish to remain a British territory, that is the way it will stay.\"At the Downing Street ceremony the surrender of Argentinian commander General Mario Men\u00e9ndez to the British, Cameron said: \"For the last 180 years, 10 generations have called the Falkland Islands home and have strived hard to secure a prosperous future for their children. And despite the aggressive threats from over the water, they are succeeding. The Falklands economy is growing, the fishing industry is thriving and tourism is flourishing.\"Next year's referendum will establish the definitive choice of the Falkland Islanders once and for all. And just as we have stood up for the Falkland Islanders in the past, so we will in the future.\"Britain's UN ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, said it was \"very sad\" that \"the Argentinians for obviously purely domestic political reasons have hyped up the rhetoric in a massive way and are using every opportunity to try to internationalise the issue and get support from the regional organisations and make a song and dance at the UN\".At a thanksgiving service held at Stanley's Christ Church cathedral, memories were vivid of the day when Argentina's military dictatorship finally surrendered.\"Thirty years on, I've grown increasingly aware how very close to the surface all this has become again for many of you,\" the Rev Richard Hines told the packed congregation. \"This 30th anniversary is serving again to remind each one of you Falkland islanders just how much you endured and how \u2026 you found inner strength during 74 days of foreign occupation.\"Foreign Office minister Jeremy Browne, who attended the commemorations, said the islanders were \"enthusiastic\" about their liberation in 1982 and proud of the achievements of the British armed forces. \"It is also a commemorative event ... a more sombre reflection on the sacrifice on both sides,\" he said.Gavin Short, chairman of the Falklands' legislative assembly, accused the Argentinian government of deploying \"absurd\" and \"misleading rhetoric\" to the international community to imply that the islanders are \"being held hostage\" by the UK. Of the referendum, he said: \"I have no doubt that the people of the Falklands wish for the islands to remain a self-governing overseas territory of the United Kingdom\".Among commemorations held in Britain, paratrooopers paraded in their hometown of Colchester in tribute to the Parachute Regiment's involvement in the 1982 conflict.A Downing Street spokesman said the Falklands flag above No 10 was flown \"in tribute to all those who lost their lives in the conflict and in solidarity with the Falkland Islanders who continue to face aggressive threats from their neighbours across the water\".ends", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "David Cameron", "Politics", "United Nations"], "title": "Falklands mark 30th anniversary of war as Argentina ups claims for sovereignty"},{"date": "2012-05-04T18:59:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the great myths about the Argentine economy that is repeated nearly every day is that the rapid growth of the Argentine economy during the past decade has been a \"commodity export boom\". For example, the New York Times reported last week:\"Riding an export boom for commodities like soybeans, Argentina's economy grew at an average rate of 7.7% from 2004 to 2010, almost twice the average annual growth of 4.3% in Chile, a country often cited as a model for economic policies, over the same period.\"Michael Shifter, the president of the inter-American dialogue and probably the most quoted source on Latin America in the US press, wrote in a disparaging article about Argentina this week that \"If the sales and price of soybean, Argentina's principal export (mainly to China), remain high, then the country may be able to continue its path of economic growth.\"I haven't seen any economists make the claim that Argentina's remarkable economic growth over the past nine years \u2013 which has brought record levels of employment and a two-thirds reduction in poverty \u2013 has been driven by soybeans or a commodities export boom. Maybe that is because it is not true. I know what you're thinking: \"Who cares?\" Well, try to keep reading, because this does have implications beyond the sprawling soybean farms in the Argentine province of Cordoba.What does it mean to have a \"commodities boom\", or growth driven by the export of commodities? One possibility would be based on quantity: the production and export of these commodities grows so fast that it makes up a large part of the country's real growth in output. Thus, as a matter of accounting, we could look at real GDP growth for 2002-2010, the last year for which we have complete data on exports, and ask, how much of this real, inflation-adjusted, growth is due to exports of commodities? It turns out that only 12% of Argentina's real GDP growth during this period was due to any kind of exports at all. And just a fraction of this 12% was due to commodity exports, including soybeans. So Argentina's economic growth from 2002-2010 was not an export-led growth experience, by any stretch of the imagination, still less, a \"commodities boom\".The other possibility is based on prices: the price of soybeans and other commodity exports also rose during part of this period. This can boost the economy in various ways, even if the physical amount of exports does not increase as rapidly as the economy. If this were driving Argentina's growth, we would expect the dollar value of these exports to have grown faster than the rest of the economy. But this did not happen either. The value of agricultural exports, including of course soybeans, as a percent of Argentina's GDP didn't rise during the expansion. It was about 5% of GDP when the economy started growing in 2002, and 3.7% of GDP in 2010. In other words, there is no plausible story that anyone can tell from the data to support the idea that Argentina's growth over the past nine years was driven by a \"commodities boom.\" Why does this matter? Well, as economist Paul Krugman noted yesterday, \"articles about Argentina are almost always very negative in tone \u2015 they are irresponsible, they are renationalizing some industries, they talk populist, so they must be going very badly.\" Which, he points out, \"doesn't speak well for the state of economics reporting.\" It sure doesn't.The myth of the \"commodities export boom\" is one way that Argentina's detractors dismiss Argentina's economic growth as just dumb luck. But the reality is that the economic expansion has been < a href=\"http://www.cepr.net/index.php/publications/reports/the-argentine-success-story-and-its-implications\">led by domestic consumption and investment. And it happened because the Argentine government changed its most important macroeconomic choices: on fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policies. That is what took Argentina out of its 1998-2002 depression and turned it into the fastest-growing economy in the Americas.Now for the world-wide significance of how Argentina's recovery actually happened: as I and many other economists have written, the policies currently being imposed on the eurozone economies \u2013 especially the weaker ones \u2013 are similar to what Argentina went through during the depression that led to its default and devaluation. These policies were pro-cyclical, meaning that they amplified the impact of the downturn. Together with a fixed, overvalued exchange rate, they made the economy worse. By defaulting on its debt and devaluing its currency, Argentina was freed to change its most important macroeconomic policies. If the European authorities (the European Commission, the European Central Bank, and the IMF) continue to block the eurozone's economic recovery with senseless austerity measures, individual countries will want to consider more rational alternatives in order to restore full employment. The people of Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and other countries are told every day that they must swallow this bitter medicine, and that there is no alternative to the prolonged suffering and high unemployment that they are going through. But the Argentine experience \u2013 in reality rather than in mythical portrayals \u2013 indicates that this is not true. There are definitely better alternatives \u2013 and they have nothing to do with soybeans or commodity export booms.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Economics", "Farming", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "Argentina and the magic soybean: the commodity export boom that wasn't | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2012-05-02T18:05:02Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "While Europe forces yet more privatisation on Greece and Spain under the Orwellian name of \"liberalisation\", Latin America in 2012 is challenging the orthodox view that private always is better than public. On 1 May Bolivia seized the Spanish company that controlled its electricity grid, just after Argentina, on 14 April, effectively renationalised YPF, its main oil company, expropriating 51% owned by Spanish firm Repsol. Both critics and supporters have understood Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez Kirchner's and Evo Morales's actions in terms of energy nationalism and populist demagoguery. But we should see both instead as responses to the failures of privatisation and its toxic connection to complex forms of financial speculation.Bolivia and Argentina have both shown that private firms were investing less, not more, than their public predecessors were. Morales noted that only $81m had been invested in Bolivia's electricity grid since privatisation in 1997. YPF in the 1990s drilled three times as many exploratory wells in Argentina as it did in the 2000s under Repsol. Argentina's oil and gas output was falling, and new reserves were not being found to replace exploited deposits.In both cases Spanish multinationals had prioritised the repatriation of dividends over investment. This indirect form of asset stripping was driven by the priorities of bankers in London and New York. Behind the Repsol-YPF affair, in particular, was something very close to the sick capitalism that caused the 2008 crisis: high-yield, high-risk assets, sliced and diced via complex derivatives.Repsol, like all oil companies, has a double life. On one hand it makes money through producing, transporting, refining, and marketing oil and gas. On the other, it is a proxy for gambling on oil as a commodity and, through derivatives, for speculating on that speculation. Investment banks are similarly divided in their priorities. Sometimes they invest, though more usually they get rich by carrying money they borrow at low interest to places where they get higher yields.While high yields almost always mean higher risks, there is a fiction of control over these risks through derivatives \u2013 in particular insurance contracts called \"swaps\".In the murky world of derivatives, however, the same bank group may indirectly be guaranteeing its own risks, and the trade in risks becomes bigger than the real investment. The whole pyramid stands so long as there is some real-world thing that pays, in theory, a high and steady yield \u2013 whether it is subprime mortgages, or a high rent from an oil asset.Spain privatised Repsol between 1989 and 1997, just at the time when \"deregulation\" in the US and Britain turned banks from investors into high-rolling gamblers. Repsol grew from a tiny Spanish refining and marketing \"downstream\" company into the world's 15th largest petroleum company, with operations on every continent. It specialised in deals where Anglo-American companies fear to tread, such as Iran, offshore gas in Venezuela under Ch\u00e1vez, and offshore oil in Cuba, enjoying bumps in its share price and valuation as it nominally acquired access to reserves.In 1999, Repsol bought its most important international asset, YPF. Over the past decade the main value of YPF as far as Repsol was concerned was not the oil or gas it produced and sold, but its value as collateral on the basis of which debt could be contracted.YPF, under Repsol, paid extraordinarily high dividends to its foreign owners \u2013 some 9% in 2011 \u2013 which it paid for by borrowing. So while YPF debts soared and Argentina's oil went undrilled, Repsol both banked profits and \"invested\" Argentinian capital elsewhere in its corporate structure. As the rating agency Standard & Poor's commented on 19 April: \"Repsol does not guarantee any of the debt at YPF.\" Madrid got the juice, but the liabilities all fell on Buenos Aires.High dividends allowed Repsol also to cash out of 25% of its YPF holding by selling it on to the Eshkenazi family, with the capital coming from Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, BNP Paribas, Standard Chartered and Citibank, with banks then making money buying and selling derivative contracts on Repsol and YPF debt.Spain has threatened Argentina with retaliation, quickly followed by the EU, Britain, and the US. The anger in Madrid and in Brussels is of an old-fashioned kind \u2013 Argentina is both refusing to hand over its present and future pocket money to Spain and reducing Europe's global assets.But the fury on the pages of the Financial Times and the Wall Street Journal is not ultimately about oil or profits, nor even about the bad precedent it might set for future expropriations elsewhere. Rather, it is provoked by Argentina having interrupted a chain of securitisation anchored in the real world by its oil at one end, but with investment banks in London and New York, the holders of swap and other derivative liabilities on Repsol and YPF debt, at the other.In nationalising, Argentina showed that a democratic government can stop predatory financiers. And it has not scared away new investors: already Talisman, ConocoPhillips, Chevron, and Chinese companies are seeking access to Argentina's shale oil reserves, the third largest in the world.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Oil", "Argentina", "Banking", "Bolivia", "Spain", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Evo Morales", "World news"], "title": "Democracies can stop predatory financiers \u2013 Argentina has shown how | Richard Drayton"},{"date": "2012-05-30T11:11:10Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Policymakers in Europe seem to be surprised at the ongoing bank run in Greece (and the nascent run in Spain). They should not be. Anyone familiar with emerging-market meltdowns knows that a financial crisis nearly always follows a fiscal crisis.Argentina's default in 2001 is but one useful example. In the Argentine crisis, the economy contracted by 18% and unemployment soared to 22% of the labour force. Greece is already close to these levels.Argentina went through a complete and chaotic default on its public debt. In Greece, the \"haircut\" imposed on creditors so far has been managed by the EU and the International Monetary Fund. But, with debt still unsustainable, the next round of Greek default could well make Argentina's look positively Teutonic in its orderliness.In Argentina, the banking system came close to collapse, causing the government to ban bank withdrawals \u2013 introducing the so-called corralito, or bullpen, for deposits \u2013 and establishing capital controls. That could be the stage that Greece is entering now. So, if the precedent of the Argentine and other emerging-market crises is a useful guide, what could be in store for Greece next?To answer that question, it helps to recall the feedback loops that link fiscal and financial crises. Banks hold government and corporate loans as assets. Fiscal crisis and default reduce the value of the former, while the ensuing recession undermines the value of the latter.That is the link running from budget to bank problems. But there is a link going in the opposite direction as well: as banks deleverage to offset losses, they cut credit and the economy slows, causing government revenue to fall. If and when banks require a capital injection from public sources, the additional expenditure \u2013 which can be large \u2013 weakens public finances still further.These mutually reinforcing forces can work themselves out in a lengthy process of recession and deleveraging. Or they can prompt a sudden run on the banks, causing the financial system to implode. The outcome depends on confidence.Economists have long understood that, in the absence of a credible lender of last resort, banks are vulnerable to self-fulfilling confidence crises. That lender can be monetary or fiscal, and in Greece both types are in doubt.If Greece's agreement with the EU and the IMF unravels, the European Central Bank will no longer accept Greek bonds as collateral. And the Greek state does not have the wherewithal to stand behind its banks. In these circumstances, it would be more surprising if depositors were not rushing to pull their funds out of Greek banks.The Argentine experience suggests that, after the run on bank deposits, the saga's next instalment is monetary collapse. With revenues plummeting and credit cut off, the Argentine provinces had to resort to printing scrip to pay salaries and pensions. At one point, more than a dozen quasi-currencies were in circulation.What happens if Greece is cut off from EU and IMF credit? Optimists point out that the country is supposed to eliminate its primary deficit (the budget balance minus interest payments) by 2013, which implies that it could pay its non debt-related bills with its own resources after a default.But that view overestimates the state's capacity to collect revenues in the midst of a panic. With the economy in free fall and uncertainty pervasive, many households and firms simply stop paying taxes. So, even if the Greek government defaults on all of its debt, it might have no option but to print pieces of paper in order to meet its obligations.That would not constitute official abandonment of the euro, but, over time, the difference could become more formal than real. The newly issued scrip \u2013 call it the neo-drachma \u2013 would be tradable and highly liquid. Even if it traded at a deep discount, as it surely would, sooner rather than later it would likely be used for settling all kinds of transactions.Here, the Argentine story suggests, the mechanism loops back to the banks: firms soon start complaining that their income is now denominated in neo-drachmas while their loans remain in euros. They begin to demand loudly that the loans be neo-drachmatised (\"pesified\" in Argentine parlance). A parliament anxious for public approval is eager to meet these demands. But this only accelerates the run on the banks, as households and firms realise that no solid assets are backing their deposits.Paying public sector workers with depreciated neo-drachmas implies a cut in the real wages that they receive. The final step in the process comes with the neo-drachmatisation of private-sector wages. Firms again demand it, claiming that otherwise they cannot export. Unions initially oppose it, but eventually give in, spooked by the spectre of even greater unemployment. The promise of selective price controls sweetens the deal.How large will the devaluation of the neo-drachma be? In Argentina, the number of pesos needed to buy one dollar rose by more than 300%. Greece posted a current account deficit of nearly 10% of GDP in 2011, despite the domestic depression. The real devaluation necessary to restore external balance will be enormous, perhaps larger than that in Argentina.Greece now has its third government in less than a year, and a fourth is not far off. Argentina ran through four presidents in less than two years, before the political and economic situation stabilised. Greece, too, will eventually stabilise. At this point, that is just about the only hopeful precedent that the Argentine story holds.Copyright: Project Syndicate 2012", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Eurozone crisis", "European Union", "Euro"], "title": "The Greek crisis: a cautionary tale from Argentina"},{"date": "2012-05-28T15:30:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Sex clearly drives Britain and Argentina as they vie to dominate islands of interest. The two great nations are rivals in producing academic studies of whether and how people stare at women's breasts or buttocks.Britain fired the first shot in this war. In 2007, Adrian Furnham and Viren Swami of University College London published a report called Perception of Female Buttocks and Breast Size in Profile, in the journal Social Behaviour and Personality.Professor Furnham is, by his own reckoning, one of the most productive academics alive, publishing many hundreds of papers in dozens of far-flung fields.Professor Swami, now at the University of Westminster, also beavers relentlessly, both in Britain and abroad. He has launched treatises in topics from the physical attractiveness of women and men in London's boroughs to the opinions of Austrian students as to the personalities of butchers and hunters.The Furnham/Swami breast/buttocks paper gathers together many facts known only to a small number of specialists. Here's one. Furnham and Swami write: \"It is widely recognised, for example, that the African Hottentot (Caboid) tribe and certain tribes in the Andaman Islands show a preference for large fat deposits on the buttocks, a condition known as steatopygia. It has been suggested that such fat deposits on the buttocks and thighs may signal resource accrual\u2026\"Furnham and Swami studied the reactions of 114 British undergraduates \u2013 men and women. They write: \"The stimuli consisted of nine nude female silhouettes, prepared \u2026 in such a manner that the size of breasts and buttocks could be varied systematically.\" Their conclusion: \"The participants in this study showed a preference for small breast size, although buttocks size did not appear to alter ratings of attractiveness. It would be useful for future research to include a larger range of breast sizes and shapes \u2026 to investigate the possibility that optimal breast size \u2026 varies across individuals\".Argentina took five years to respond to this provocation.Mariano Sigman, director of the Laboratory for Integrative Neuroscience at the University of Buenos Aires, and two collaborators concentrated their analytical firepower on male undergraduates. Their study called Eye Fixations Indicate Men's Preference for Female Breasts or Buttocks has just been published in the Archives of Sexual Behaviour.The Sigman team reports that: (1) \"Argentinian males tended to define themselves as favouring breasts or buttocks\"; (2) \"the distribution was biased towards buttocks\"; and (3) individuals who say they prefer to gaze at one of those body parts behave as if they do.The British and Argentinian projects both exhibit indomitable focus. The authors and test subjects apparently refuse to let anything seriously distract them from what they want to study.(Thanks to Diego Golombeck for alerting me to the Argentinian study.)\u2022 Marc Abrahams is editor of the bimonthly Annals of Improbable Research and organiser of the Ig Nobel prize", "tags": ["Research", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Improbable research: buttock and breast ogling in Britain and Argentina"},{"date": "2012-04-17T20:48:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " Spain pledged to wage diplomatic and industrial war on Argentina after the country's populist president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, announced plans to nationalise the Spanish-owned part of oil company YPF.\"With this attitude, this hostility from the Argentine authorities, there will be consequences that we'll see over the next few days,\" industry minister Jos\u00e9 Manuel Soria pledged, calling it a hostile action against Spain. \"They will be in the diplomatic field, the industrial field and on energy.\" Retaliatory measures for the expropriation of the Spanish Repsol company's shares in YPF will be announced after a cabinet meeting on Friday, while the European Union was also pulled into the dispute.Spanish president Mariano Rajoy had blistering words for Fern\u00e1ndez, speaking at the World Economic Forum on Latin America in Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. \"This damages Argentina's international reputation,\" said Rajoy. \"What happened yesterday could happen to any other investment.\" Spain's foreign minister, Jos\u00e9 Manuel Garc\u00eda-Margallo, claimed that Fern\u00e1ndez had originally planned to time her announcement to coincide with the 30th anniversary of the Falklands war on 2 April.\"We expect Argentinian authorities to uphold their international commitments and obligations, in particular those resulting from a bilateral agreement on the protection on investments in Spain,\" said European commission president Jos\u00e9 Manuel Barroso. European foreign policy chief Catherine Ashton called off a meeting of the EU-Argentine joint committee on Thursday.A Chinese website, meanwhile, reported that Repsol had been preparing to sell YPF to the China Petrochemical Corp (Sinopec) for $15bn. Repsol, which has Sinopec as a strategic partner in Brazil, did not comment on the claim. China has far greater clout than Spain in Argentina, whose economy is heavily dependent on soya exports to the Asian giant, leading to speculation that Fern\u00e1ndez might strike her own deal with Sinopec, effectively handing even greater control over Argentina's economy to Beijing.Repsol chairman Antonio Brufau accused Fern\u00e1ndez of trying to divert attention from her political troubles with the nationalisation and demanded the market rate of $10.5bn (\u00a36.6bn) for his firm.\"This is only a way of covering up the social and economic crisis Argentina is facing,\" said Brufau, pointing to high inflation and energy prices.Fern\u00e1ndez had accused the company of failing to invest in oil prospecting in the country after buying YPF from the state in 1999. But Brufau said it had invested $20bn. Repsol also claimed the recent discovery of abundant shale oil and gas reserves in the Vaca Muerta area of Argentina had sparked the takeover. Spanish analysts said price controls imposed by the Argentine government had made investment much less profitable for Repsol, although Repsol said 33.7% of the group's recent investments had been going to YPF, which provided 21% of the net income.Argentina's hydrocarbons output has been in decline for years at a time of strong demand from industry and consumers. Crude production fell 5.9% and natural gas output slipped 3.4% last year as power demand rose 5.1%, according to the Argentine Institute of Petroleum and Gas. YPF's proven reserves of crude and natural gas \u2013 which do not include the new shale finds \u2013 fell 15% and 31% respectively between 2007 and 2010. Imports of fuels such as liquefied natural gas and diesel doubled last year to about $9.4bn, eroding the country's trade surplus.Brufau was furious that Argentine officials had thrown Spanish executives out of the YPF headquarters in Buenos Aires. He pledged a legal battle at the United Nations and the World Bank against Fern\u00e1ndez, accusing her of being \"an expert manipulator\". \"She carried out an illegal act and made unlawful allegations which followed a campaign aimed at knocking down the price of YPF shares and allowing expropriation at a bargain price,\" he said.\"It will be a long (legal) battle,\" Brufau warned.Argentina has not said how much it intends to pay for YPF, which has 42% of Repsol's global reserves, but Brufau said Repsol's YPF stake was worth $10.5bn. Analysts, however, said it would probably be offered the much lower book value of about \u20ac4bn. (\u00a33.3bn).\"Repsol will not have much bargaining power given the limited legal recourse at its disposal,\" said Laurence Allan and Juliette Kerr of IHS Global Insight, pointing to Argentina's refusal to pay out on other World Bank arbitration claims. \"Yesterday's performance is a continuation of recent rhetoric over the Falkland Islands,\" they added.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"Argentina now runs the risk of scaring away other foreign investors needed to develop the larger Vaca Muerta area. Analysts said the move, announced live on television amid the increasingly populist and nationalist paraphernalia that accompanies Fern\u00e1ndez, would have far-reaching implications.\"The government's record of running state-owned companies does not bode well and the fallout from the issue seems set to remain at the centre of political and business life in Argentina for the foreseeable future.\"The takeover of Repsol's shares in YPF will leave Argentina with a 51% stake in the company, Repsol with 6%, the Argentine group Petersen with 25%, with the remainder distributed among private shareholders. The company has more than 13,000 employees and had sales of $56bn last year, producing about 111 million barrels of oil last year with profits of more than $5bn.", "tags": ["Spain", "Argentina", "Oil", "Business", "World news"], "title": "Spain attacks Argentina over nationalisation of oil company YPF"},{"date": "2012-04-01T20:00:04Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Any \"acceptable settlement\" (The Falklands: 30 years on, 31 March) will recognise that the islands belong to Argentina, by virtue of the principle of uti possidetis juris.Following the British appropriation of Port Egmont in 1765, a Spanish military governor was appointed in 1767 to administer the islands. In 1776, by royal charter, the Spanish crown made the islands a commandery under the jurisdiction of the naval base at Montevideo, which reported to the government of Buenos Aires. Upon the May revolution in 1810, the latter took over all the territories of the viceroyalty of the Rio Plata, including the islands. Spanish administration of the islands was interrupted in 1811 and resumed in 1820. On 10 June 1829, decrees from Buenos Aires created the political and military commandery of the Malvinas islands and islands adjoining Cape Horn in the Atlantic Sea, under the commandership of Luis Vernet. The Argentinian administration was forcefully ended on 3 January 1833, by the arrival of HMS Clio.The above principle, as applied to territorial ownership and as affirmed repeatedly by the international court of justice, accords pre-eminence to legal title over effective possession as a basis of sovereignty.So the islanders have the security of Mount Pleasant defence but not of international law.Peter HamiltonMuch Marcle, Herefordshire\u2022 About the article published by Roger Edwards saying that \"no one listen to the islanders\" (Will no one listen to us Falkland Islanders?, 6 March), I wanted to talk about some of your statements. After our independence from Spain, which until then exercised legal dominion over the islands, the country inherited and maintained that domain with a small military garrison since 1820, as mentioned by Edwards.The expulsion of the Argentine authorities in 1833 was a use of force by a dominant power, Britain, against a recently formed country, as Argentina was. This display of power, which was immediately protested by the Argentine government, is the cause of the whole problem, and the reason why British people have been living in the island for more than 180 years. The British occupation resulted in a colony that prevented the development of Argentina's population, unlike what happened in Patagonia.Argentina does not have anything against the islanders, just that there is a long dispute over the territory in which they live, which began before their arrival. The reaffirmation of Argentina's position has its origin in the lack of British willingness to begin negotiations, and the subsequent consolidation of a status quo that only benefits Britain. All the steps taken by our democratic governments are contemplated as peaceful means, under international law and the United Nations Charter, and have the support of the international community, particularly in our region, which considers the Malvinas issue a remnant of colonialism.It is time for the islanders to understand that Argentina feels attacked when Britain declares that sovereignty over the islands is not open to discussion. Britain uses our natural resources and deploys military forces over a territory we claim as our own, and which no country in the world denies is under legal dispute, not even the US.It is clear that the world is heading towards the creation of integrated spaces, and the viability of states is directly related to their insertion into these spaces. We are therefore convinced that the future of the islands is objectively linked to South America.The planet we inhabit does not deserve hate, it deserves peace. If we ignore the feelings of hatred of the past and overcome our differences, we will soon realise we are part of the same fate.Carlos RaimundiMember of Argentina's parliament\u2022 As with Afghanistan, the great problem is that so many faultless servicemen and women and their families have lost their lives and loved ones fighting senseless wars, at the behest of bellicose politicians, that it is very hard to admit that such sacrifice has essentially been wasted. But just as we should clearly pull out and stay out of Afghanistan, we should equally take a hard-headed approach to the future of the Falklands. Imagine if, as a result of past colonial exploits, Argentina \"owned\" the Isle of Wight or the Isle of Man \u2013 what would we think then? It would be ridiculous, just as us \"owning\" the Falklands is.Yes, currently, it appears that a majority of the islanders want to remain \"British\" but this is not a realistic proposition. Instead we should do as we did with Hong Kong, set a date, say 30 years hence, when the islands would revert to Argentina and work constructively with all parties in the meantime to bring this about. Of course any Falkland Islanders and their families who wanted before \u2013 or at \u2013 that point to \"return\" to Britain should be enabled to do so. Thereafter, residents of the islands would be Argentinian citizens.John StrongmanManchesterArgentina may well have \"provoked\" war 30 years ago but it takes two to tango, and the worry is that, now that the Tories have finally been recognised for what they are, they could well be the willing partner again, repeating the Thatcher ploy of resorting to war to avoid humiliation at the polls. What are the odds on a Gulf of Tonkin-type incident in the South Atlantic in the next 12 months? Failing that, one in the Strait of Hormuz might serve the same purpose.Bernie EvansLiverpool", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Law", "Foreign policy", "Politics"], "title": "Letters: In principle, the Falkland Islands belong to Argentina"},{"date": "2012-06-14T18:30:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Thirty years after liberating British forces hoisted the union flag in Stanley, the Falklands flag flew defiantly above 10 Downing Street on Thursday as David Cameron pledged to continue defending islanders from Argentina's \"aggressive threats\".Eight thousand miles away at the liberation monument in the Falklands' capital, veterans, widows, politicians and Falklanders braved thick snow at a wreath-laying commemoration and military parade on the anniversary of the end of the South Atlantic conflict.It was a day of high emotion, both in the UK and on the bleak, treeless islands, as heads were bowed in memory of the 255 British military and merchant navy personnel, the three Falkland islanders and estimated 650 Argentinian soldiers who died during the 74-day war.Three decades after Margaret Thatcher sent 27,000 troops and more than 100 ships to repel the invaders, Buenos Aires continues lay claim to the territory. But, Cameron stressed, Britain's resolve to support this remote British Overseas Territory \"has not wavered in the last 30 years and it will not in the years ahead\".Meanwhile, the Falklands' legislative assembly announced a referendum on its sovereignty, to be held next year, in a bid to cool the dispute between the UK and its South American neighbour.Argentina's president chose the 30th anniversary to attempt to press her country's claims to the islands they call the Malvinas before a United Nations committee on decolonisation.Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner told the 24-member committee in New York on Thursday night that distance undermined the UK's argument and accused Britain of abusing its privileged position as a permanent member of the UN security council.\"How can it be claimed that, 14,000 kilometres away, that it can be part of the British territory?\" she said. Fern\u00e1ndez insisted that Argentina just wanted to \"talk\" about the islands' sovereignty. \"Can someone in the modern world deny that possibility?\" she added.Her appearance was preceded by an advertisement, taken out in Thursday's Guardian newspaper, in which she described the Falklands as \"an anachronistic colonial case in the South Atlantic\".Claiming that the UK had refused to comply with UN resolutions requiring the UK and Argentina to \"negotiate a peaceful solution\", the notice said: \"We, Argentines, ask all of you \u2013 citizens and governments of the world \u2013 to put an end to colonialism and to demand compliance with UN resolutions.\"Cameron hit back at Buenos Aires in a speech on Thursday night at the annual Falkland islands government reception in London, warning Fern\u00e1ndez: \"When it comes to the sovereignty of the Falkland islands, there will be absolutely no negotiation. This is not some game of global Monopoly, with nations passing a territory between them.\"It's about the islanders determining their own future. This has been their home for almost 180 There are children whose ancestors have lived there for generations. The roots go deep, and they will not be ripped out.years.\" He added: \"So my message to the government of Argentina is this: the UK has no aggressive intentions towards you. Accusations of militarisation and nuclear threats are hyperbole and propaganda.\"But do not under-estimate our resolve. Threats will not work, attempts to intimidate the islanders will not succeed, because Britain stands ready and willing to stand up for the Falkland islanders at any time. As long as they wish to remain a British territory, that is the way it will stay.\"At the Downing Street ceremony the surrender of Argentinian commander General Mario Men\u00e9ndez to the British, Cameron said: \"For the last 180 years, 10 generations have called the Falkland Islands home and have strived hard to secure a prosperous future for their children. And despite the aggressive threats from over the water, they are succeeding. The Falklands economy is growing, the fishing industry is thriving and tourism is flourishing.\"Next year's referendum will establish the definitive choice of the Falkland Islanders once and for all. And just as we have stood up for the Falkland Islanders in the past, so we will in the future.\"Britain's UN ambassador, Mark Lyall Grant, said it was \"very sad\" that \"the Argentinians for obviously purely domestic political reasons have hyped up the rhetoric in a massive way and are using every opportunity to try to internationalise the issue and get support from the regional organisations and make a song and dance at the UN\".At a thanksgiving service held at Stanley's Christ Church cathedral, memories were vivid of the day when Argentina's military dictatorship finally surrendered.\"Thirty years on, I've grown increasingly aware how very close to the surface all this has become again for many of you,\" the Rev Richard Hines told the packed congregation. \"This 30th anniversary is serving again to remind each one of you Falkland islanders just how much you endured and how \u2026 you found inner strength during 74 days of foreign occupation.\"Foreign Office minister Jeremy Browne, who attended the commemorations, said the islanders were \"enthusiastic\" about their liberation in 1982 and proud of the achievements of the British armed forces. \"It is also a commemorative event ... a more sombre reflection on the sacrifice on both sides,\" he said.Gavin Short, chairman of the Falklands' legislative assembly, accused the Argentinian government of deploying \"absurd\" and \"misleading rhetoric\" to the international community to imply that the islanders are \"being held hostage\" by the UK. Of the referendum, he said: \"I have no doubt that the people of the Falklands wish for the islands to remain a self-governing overseas territory of the United Kingdom\".Among commemorations held in Britain, paratrooopers paraded in their hometown of Colchester in tribute to the Parachute Regiment's involvement in the 1982 conflict.A Downing Street spokesman said the Falklands flag above No 10 was flown \"in tribute to all those who lost their lives in the conflict and in solidarity with the Falkland Islanders who continue to face aggressive threats from their neighbours across the water\".ends", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "David Cameron", "Politics", "United Nations"], "title": "Falklands mark 30th anniversary of war as Argentina ups claims for sovereignty"},{"date": "2012-05-04T18:59:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One of the great myths about the Argentine economy that is repeated nearly every day is that the rapid growth of the Argentine economy during the past decade has been a \"commodity export boom\". For example, the New York Times reported last week:\"Riding an export boom for commodities like soybeans, Argentina's economy grew at an average rate of 7.7% from 2004 to 2010, almost twice the average annual growth of 4.3% in Chile, a country often cited as a model for economic policies, over the same period.\"Michael Shifter, the president of the inter-American dialogue and probably the most quoted source on Latin America in the US press, wrote in a disparaging article about Argentina this week that \"If the sales and price of soybean, Argentina's principal export (mainly to China), remain high, then the country may be able to continue its path of economic growth.\"I haven't seen any economists make the claim that Argentina's remarkable economic growth over the past nine years \u2013 which has brought record levels of employment and a two-thirds reduction in poverty \u2013 has been driven by soybeans or a commodities export boom. Maybe that is because it is not true. I know what you're thinking: \"Who cares?\" Well, try to keep reading, because this does have implications beyond the sprawling soybean farms in the Argentine province of Cordoba.What does it mean to have a \"commodities boom\", or growth driven by the export of commodities? One possibility would be based on quantity: the production and export of these commodities grows so fast that it makes up a large part of the country's real growth in output. Thus, as a matter of accounting, we could look at real GDP growth for 2002-2010, the last year for which we have complete data on exports, and ask, how much of this real, inflation-adjusted, growth is due to exports of commodities? It turns out that only 12% of Argentina's real GDP growth during this period was due to any kind of exports at all. And just a fraction of this 12% was due to commodity exports, including soybeans. So Argentina's economic growth from 2002-2010 was not an export-led growth experience, by any stretch of the imagination, still less, a \"commodities boom\".The other possibility is based on prices: the price of soybeans and other commodity exports also rose during part of this period. This can boost the economy in various ways, even if the physical amount of exports does not increase as rapidly as the economy. If this were driving Argentina's growth, we would expect the dollar value of these exports to have grown faster than the rest of the economy. But this did not happen either. The value of agricultural exports, including of course soybeans, as a percent of Argentina's GDP didn't rise during the expansion. It was about 5% of GDP when the economy started growing in 2002, and 3.7% of GDP in 2010. In other words, there is no plausible story that anyone can tell from the data to support the idea that Argentina's growth over the past nine years was driven by a \"commodities boom.\" Why does this matter? Well, as economist Paul Krugman noted yesterday, \"articles about Argentina are almost always very negative in tone \u2015 they are irresponsible, they are renationalizing some industries, they talk populist, so they must be going very badly.\" Which, he points out, \"doesn't speak well for the state of economics reporting.\" It sure doesn't.The myth of the \"commodities export boom\" is one way that Argentina's detractors dismiss Argentina's economic growth as just dumb luck. But the reality is that the economic expansion has been < a href=\"http://www.cepr.net/index.php/publications/reports/the-argentine-success-story-and-its-implications\">led by domestic consumption and investment. And it happened because the Argentine government changed its most important macroeconomic choices: on fiscal, monetary, and exchange rate policies. That is what took Argentina out of its 1998-2002 depression and turned it into the fastest-growing economy in the Americas.Now for the world-wide significance of how Argentina's recovery actually happened: as I and many other economists have written, the policies currently being imposed on the eurozone economies \u2013 especially the weaker ones \u2013 are similar to what Argentina went through during the depression that led to its default and devaluation. These policies were pro-cyclical, meaning that they amplified the impact of the downturn. Together with a fixed, overvalued exchange rate, they made the economy worse. By defaulting on its debt and devaluing its currency, Argentina was freed to change its most important macroeconomic policies. If the European authorities (the European Commission, the European Central Bank, and the IMF) continue to block the eurozone's economic recovery with senseless austerity measures, individual countries will want to consider more rational alternatives in order to restore full employment. The people of Greece, Spain, Portugal, Ireland, and other countries are told every day that they must swallow this bitter medicine, and that there is no alternative to the prolonged suffering and high unemployment that they are going through. But the Argentine experience \u2013 in reality rather than in mythical portrayals \u2013 indicates that this is not true. There are definitely better alternatives \u2013 and they have nothing to do with soybeans or commodity export booms.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Economics", "Farming", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "Argentina and the magic soybean: the commodity export boom that wasn't | Mark Weisbrot"},{"date": "2012-05-02T18:05:02Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "While Europe forces yet more privatisation on Greece and Spain under the Orwellian name of \"liberalisation\", Latin America in 2012 is challenging the orthodox view that private always is better than public. On 1 May Bolivia seized the Spanish company that controlled its electricity grid, just after Argentina, on 14 April, effectively renationalised YPF, its main oil company, expropriating 51% owned by Spanish firm Repsol. Both critics and supporters have understood Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez Kirchner's and Evo Morales's actions in terms of energy nationalism and populist demagoguery. But we should see both instead as responses to the failures of privatisation and its toxic connection to complex forms of financial speculation.Bolivia and Argentina have both shown that private firms were investing less, not more, than their public predecessors were. Morales noted that only $81m had been invested in Bolivia's electricity grid since privatisation in 1997. YPF in the 1990s drilled three times as many exploratory wells in Argentina as it did in the 2000s under Repsol. Argentina's oil and gas output was falling, and new reserves were not being found to replace exploited deposits.In both cases Spanish multinationals had prioritised the repatriation of dividends over investment. This indirect form of asset stripping was driven by the priorities of bankers in London and New York. Behind the Repsol-YPF affair, in particular, was something very close to the sick capitalism that caused the 2008 crisis: high-yield, high-risk assets, sliced and diced via complex derivatives.Repsol, like all oil companies, has a double life. On one hand it makes money through producing, transporting, refining, and marketing oil and gas. On the other, it is a proxy for gambling on oil as a commodity and, through derivatives, for speculating on that speculation. Investment banks are similarly divided in their priorities. Sometimes they invest, though more usually they get rich by carrying money they borrow at low interest to places where they get higher yields.While high yields almost always mean higher risks, there is a fiction of control over these risks through derivatives \u2013 in particular insurance contracts called \"swaps\".In the murky world of derivatives, however, the same bank group may indirectly be guaranteeing its own risks, and the trade in risks becomes bigger than the real investment. The whole pyramid stands so long as there is some real-world thing that pays, in theory, a high and steady yield \u2013 whether it is subprime mortgages, or a high rent from an oil asset.Spain privatised Repsol between 1989 and 1997, just at the time when \"deregulation\" in the US and Britain turned banks from investors into high-rolling gamblers. Repsol grew from a tiny Spanish refining and marketing \"downstream\" company into the world's 15th largest petroleum company, with operations on every continent. It specialised in deals where Anglo-American companies fear to tread, such as Iran, offshore gas in Venezuela under Ch\u00e1vez, and offshore oil in Cuba, enjoying bumps in its share price and valuation as it nominally acquired access to reserves.In 1999, Repsol bought its most important international asset, YPF. Over the past decade the main value of YPF as far as Repsol was concerned was not the oil or gas it produced and sold, but its value as collateral on the basis of which debt could be contracted.YPF, under Repsol, paid extraordinarily high dividends to its foreign owners \u2013 some 9% in 2011 \u2013 which it paid for by borrowing. So while YPF debts soared and Argentina's oil went undrilled, Repsol both banked profits and \"invested\" Argentinian capital elsewhere in its corporate structure. As the rating agency Standard & Poor's commented on 19 April: \"Repsol does not guarantee any of the debt at YPF.\" Madrid got the juice, but the liabilities all fell on Buenos Aires.High dividends allowed Repsol also to cash out of 25% of its YPF holding by selling it on to the Eshkenazi family, with the capital coming from Credit Suisse, Goldman Sachs, BNP Paribas, Standard Chartered and Citibank, with banks then making money buying and selling derivative contracts on Repsol and YPF debt.Spain has threatened Argentina with retaliation, quickly followed by the EU, Britain, and the US. The anger in Madrid and in Brussels is of an old-fashioned kind \u2013 Argentina is both refusing to hand over its present and future pocket money to Spain and reducing Europe's global assets.But the fury on the pages of the Financial Times and the Wall Street Journal is not ultimately about oil or profits, nor even about the bad precedent it might set for future expropriations elsewhere. Rather, it is provoked by Argentina having interrupted a chain of securitisation anchored in the real world by its oil at one end, but with investment banks in London and New York, the holders of swap and other derivative liabilities on Repsol and YPF debt, at the other.In nationalising, Argentina showed that a democratic government can stop predatory financiers. And it has not scared away new investors: already Talisman, ConocoPhillips, Chevron, and Chinese companies are seeking access to Argentina's shale oil reserves, the third largest in the world.\u2022 Follow Comment is free on Twitter @commentisfree", "tags": ["Oil", "Argentina", "Banking", "Bolivia", "Spain", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Evo Morales", "World news"], "title": "Democracies can stop predatory financiers \u2013 Argentina has shown how | Richard Drayton"},{"date": "2012-04-30T14:01:27Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The future of the Falkland Islands/Malvinas has been in the news again recently, with the 30th anniversary of the conflict between Britain and Argentina and the increasingly bold rhetoric of Argentinian politicians. The discussion is treated in the press as a diplomatic and political issue, but little has been written about it from a development perspective. However, what happens to the Falklands is a much bigger test of the UK's commitment to development than its creditable commitment to meeting the arbitrary 0.7% aid target.The Falklands question became a development issue in 1998 when oil was discovered. Until then it had little relevance to the material wellbeing of poor people in developing countries. The Argentinian government did not invade the Falklands in 1982 for any economic reason (the main economic motor of the islands at the time was sheep products) but for internal political reasons; to provoke nationalist fervour to shore up a tottering dictatorship.The outcome of the invasion has always piqued Argentina, but the discovery of oil has added fuel to the fire.Brazil's former president Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva called the oil reserves found in Brazilian seas in the past decade a \"gift from God\" \u2013 that is pretty much how most Argentinians would like to think of the oil around the Falklands.With an estimated 60bn barrels of oil to be found around the islands, and the oil price hovering around $100 per barrel, you can do the maths. If Argentina was able to take 25% of any oil sales, it could add up to $1.5 trillion to its coffers over the next few years.There are two reasons why it is important from a development perspective for Argentina to benefit from this money. First, poverty reduction. Although Argentina is by no means one of the world's poorest countries, and has fairly good human development statistics, its GDP per capita ($9,000) is still only a quarter of the UK's. And it has some worrying social statistics: 13% of Argentinian children (aged 7-14) are economically active, according to the latest figures (for 2004), while 8% are malnourished. Moreover, the multiplier effect of Argentina's wealth would mean benefits for its regional neighbours as well, most of which are poorer.The case is even clearer if we substitute a much poorer country, such as Haiti, Sierra Leone or Cambodia, for Argentina. It is hard to imagine anyone arguing that oil fields that might have fallen in the marine jurisdiction of these countries should come under a rich country's colonial jurisdiction in similar circumstances. It would be considered grotesque. The difference between this hypothetical situation and the actual one is of scale, not principle. Argentina and its neighbours still require development support.Second, anti-colonialism. Development is not just about money; it is also about shaking off the past and engaging in new and equal relations between countries. Speaking at the Summit of the Americas in Cartagena, Colombia, in mid-April, the Argentinian foreign minister, Hector Timerman, said: \"colonial aggression against one country is colonial aggression against all\" and asked for solidarity with \"the Argentinian decision to negotiate the return of the islands with the UK\". All the 30 or so presidents at the hemispheric conference favour the Argentinian position, except the US and Canada.The reason the Malvinas issue is felt so keenly across Latin America is that it is a reminder of Britain's history of economic imperialism in the region. The role Britain played in extracting resources and wealth from Latin America over the past two centuries, with little benefit to the local population, is well known, even if it is the Spanish who are most associated with colonialism. As Timerman puts it: \"We have 21st-century challenges, and Argentina is still fighting against a 19th-century power.\" Of course, British people have next to no knowledge of this, just as they know little of their imperial history in general.As the UK economy continues to falter, the last thing its government wants to do is let go of a potentially large source of revenue. It is even demanding repayment of an odious debt still owed by Argentina for money lent to the 1970s military junta to buy weapons. But these are precisely the bold decisions required to present a new kind of attitude to the world \u2013 one founded on solidarity, not on the remnants of an often violently won empire.The political identity of the islanders is a crucial issue; they should pertain to whichever state they choose, and they are clear that they want to be British. They are also a thoroughly decent group of people (some of whom I have met) and deserve a share of the oil profits. It is not beyond the ken of post-modern bureaucrats to draw up an accord whereby the islanders remain British and benefit from the oil surrounding their home, without denying a developing country the majority of the wealth that rightfully belongs to it.\u2022 This article has been corrected. The original said it was the 20th anniversary of the Falklands conflict.", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Oil"], "title": "Falklands oil revenue must help develop Argentina not boost UK coffers | Jonathan Glennie"},{"date": "2012-09-21T21:45:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Book all your flights at the same time for the best prices. Some large airlines have agreements with small local carriers, or, like Lan, operate both international and domestic flights, which means they can offer either discounted multi-destination airpasses or add internal flights for a small additional cost. For example, Journey Latin America (journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers a return fare to Santiago for \u00a3975, or one with added stops in both Puerto Montt and Punto Arenas for \u00a31,048. If you do buy separately, good prices can often be found on lesser-known airlines Sky (skyairline.cl) and Pal (palair.cl).Long-distance coaches in South America are in a league of their own.When taking a sleeper, forget about first and second class, and learn that all categories based around the word for bed: cama, semi-cama, and cama VIP/executivo refer to how much your seat reclines, with the top-end ones not far off an airline business-class seat. You'll often be served a hot meal and maybe even a glass of wine, but ask exactly what is included when you book and take your own snacks too, as quality can be hit and miss. Travelling by bus is the best way to appreciate the sheer size of various countries in South America, and can save you the cost of a night's accommodation if it's an overnighter.While foreigners rush to the nearest hotel, Argentinians and Chileans often holiday in caba\u00f1as, self-catering cabins that are great for families and small groups. Just type your destination into a search engine plus the word caba\u00f1a for plenty of affordable, no-frills options. Sleeping under canvas in national parks will also cut costs.Shafik Meghji, co-author of the new Rough Guide to Chile, says: \"If you want to escape the crowds and reach the most spectacular areas, you generally have to camp. Some sites are free and, although very basic, usually have wonderfully isolated locations. Others charge a fee and offer equipment for hire, bathrooms, cooking facilities and even cafes.\"Some parks also have refugios (mountain huts with bunk beds, hot showers and gas stoves), but be sure to book in advance during high season. For cities, try peer-to-peer accommodation networks, such as AirBnB.com, Wimdu.co.uk and Tripping.com, which now have much better coverage in South America.Organised wine tours are often expensive. Cut costs by arranging your own visits, using public transport. Several vineyards around Santiago, including Vina Undurraga (undurraga.cl), Cousi\u00f1o Macul (cousinomacul.com) and Concha y Toro (conchaytoro.com) can be visited by bus or metro. You'll usually be expected to book a time slot in advance. La Rural (bodegalarural.com.ar), about 12km from Mendoza, also has a wine museum.Chile does a fine line in set lunches, so make this the main meal of your day. Look for chalkboards outside restaurants. The key words are men\u00fa ejecutivo, sometimes shortened to simply men\u00fa, usually comprising starter, main course, dessert and drink. Similar deals exist in some Argentina restaurants too, although they are not so common.A few years ago, taxis were so cheap in Buenos Aires that some foreigners never even set foot on a bus or subte (underground train). Now they are learning to appreciate public transport as one of the best bargains in the city, with fares from 15p to 30p. The city's bus system is very comprehensive, but getting to grips with it \u2013 the official guide is Guia T, a book packed with grids and cross references \u2013 can seem harder than cracking the Da Vinci Code.But help is at hand: British expat Jonathan Evans will teach you all you need to know, while offering an introductory tour to the city sights (buenosaireslocaltours.com). The tour is free (leave a tip) and runs entirely on public transport, including a stint on an underground line with original wooden carriages dating from 1913.Buenos Aires pioneered the in-house restaurant scene and now it's taking fashion behind closed doors, too. Clothing has been one of the areas hardest hit by Argentina's soaring inflation, so instead of paying for rental premises, many designers open up their studios or workshops, offering well-priced limited editions that make unusual souvenirs.Try Vendaval (vendavalbuenosaires.com.ar), Pippy Miller (facebook.com/PippyMiller), Maison Abbey (facebook.com/maison.abbey), Jungle Vi.ai.pi (jungleviaipi.blogspot.com.ar) and Blit Bags (bolu.us). Pop-up fashion ferias (markets) are also popular in Santiago. Most are advertised via Facebook or Twitter. For a short cut, arrange a tour with Santiago stylist Ameriga Giannone (agstyling.com). In Buenos Aires, try Shop Hop BA (shop-buenosaires.com) or Creme de la Creme (cremedelacreme.com.ar).It's not wise to carry large amounts of cash, but a handful of dollars could lead to discounts on, well, almost anything in Argentina. The government has recently introduced very strict laws that make it incredibly hard for residents to change money, so people are clamouring for international currency, namely dollars. Keep a few in your hotel safe for negotiating deals.Looking to extend your trip and learn the lingo while keeping accommodation costs low? Hostels often offer travellers medium-term accommodation and other benefits (sometimes meals and Spanish lessons) in exchange for a few hours' work. You can arrange this on the hoof or by contacting establishments in advance. Or, for a guaranteed placement, try Real Hostel Work (realhostelwork.com), a new site that has links with hostels across South America.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Flights", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "An eye on the pesos: budget holidays in Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2012-09-21T21:45:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Book all your flights at the same time for the best prices. Some large airlines have agreements with small local carriers, or, like Lan, operate both international and domestic flights, which means they can offer either discounted multi-destination airpasses or add internal flights for a small additional cost. For example, Journey Latin America (journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers a return fare to Santiago for \u00a3975, or one with added stops in both Puerto Montt and Punto Arenas for \u00a31,048. If you do buy separately, good prices can often be found on lesser-known airlines Sky (skyairline.cl) and Pal (palair.cl).Long-distance coaches in South America are in a league of their own.When taking a sleeper, forget about first and second class, and learn that all categories based around the word for bed: cama, semi-cama, and cama VIP/executivo refer to how much your seat reclines, with the top-end ones not far off an airline business-class seat. You'll often be served a hot meal and maybe even a glass of wine, but ask exactly what is included when you book and take your own snacks too, as quality can be hit and miss. Travelling by bus is the best way to appreciate the sheer size of various countries in South America, and can save you the cost of a night's accommodation if it's an overnighter.While foreigners rush to the nearest hotel, Argentinians and Chileans often holiday in caba\u00f1as, self-catering cabins that are great for families and small groups. Just type your destination into a search engine plus the word caba\u00f1a for plenty of affordable, no-frills options. Sleeping under canvas in national parks will also cut costs.Shafik Meghji, co-author of the new Rough Guide to Chile, says: \"If you want to escape the crowds and reach the most spectacular areas, you generally have to camp. Some sites are free and, although very basic, usually have wonderfully isolated locations. Others charge a fee and offer equipment for hire, bathrooms, cooking facilities and even cafes.\"Some parks also have refugios (mountain huts with bunk beds, hot showers and gas stoves), but be sure to book in advance during high season. For cities, try peer-to-peer accommodation networks, such as AirBnB.com, Wimdu.co.uk and Tripping.com, which now have much better coverage in South America.Organised wine tours are often expensive. Cut costs by arranging your own visits, using public transport. Several vineyards around Santiago, including Vina Undurraga (undurraga.cl), Cousi\u00f1o Macul (cousinomacul.com) and Concha y Toro (conchaytoro.com) can be visited by bus or metro. You'll usually be expected to book a time slot in advance. La Rural (bodegalarural.com.ar), about 12km from Mendoza, also has a wine museum.Chile does a fine line in set lunches, so make this the main meal of your day. Look for chalkboards outside restaurants. The key words are men\u00fa ejecutivo, sometimes shortened to simply men\u00fa, usually comprising starter, main course, dessert and drink. Similar deals exist in some Argentina restaurants too, although they are not so common.A few years ago, taxis were so cheap in Buenos Aires that some foreigners never even set foot on a bus or subte (underground train). Now they are learning to appreciate public transport as one of the best bargains in the city, with fares from 15p to 30p. The city's bus system is very comprehensive, but getting to grips with it \u2013 the official guide is Guia T, a book packed with grids and cross references \u2013 can seem harder than cracking the Da Vinci Code.But help is at hand: British expat Jonathan Evans will teach you all you need to know, while offering an introductory tour to the city sights (buenosaireslocaltours.com). The tour is free (leave a tip) and runs entirely on public transport, including a stint on an underground line with original wooden carriages dating from 1913.Buenos Aires pioneered the in-house restaurant scene and now it's taking fashion behind closed doors, too. Clothing has been one of the areas hardest hit by Argentina's soaring inflation, so instead of paying for rental premises, many designers open up their studios or workshops, offering well-priced limited editions that make unusual souvenirs.Try Vendaval (vendavalbuenosaires.com.ar), Pippy Miller (facebook.com/PippyMiller), Maison Abbey (facebook.com/maison.abbey), Jungle Vi.ai.pi (jungleviaipi.blogspot.com.ar) and Blit Bags (bolu.us). Pop-up fashion ferias (markets) are also popular in Santiago. Most are advertised via Facebook or Twitter. For a short cut, arrange a tour with Santiago stylist Ameriga Giannone (agstyling.com). In Buenos Aires, try Shop Hop BA (shop-buenosaires.com) or Creme de la Creme (cremedelacreme.com.ar).It's not wise to carry large amounts of cash, but a handful of dollars could lead to discounts on, well, almost anything in Argentina. The government has recently introduced very strict laws that make it incredibly hard for residents to change money, so people are clamouring for international currency, namely dollars. Keep a few in your hotel safe for negotiating deals.Looking to extend your trip and learn the lingo while keeping accommodation costs low? Hostels often offer travellers medium-term accommodation and other benefits (sometimes meals and Spanish lessons) in exchange for a few hours' work. You can arrange this on the hoof or by contacting establishments in advance. Or, for a guaranteed placement, try Real Hostel Work (realhostelwork.com), a new site that has links with hostels across South America.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Flights", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "An eye on the pesos: budget holidays in Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2012-08-17T07:59:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The inaugural Rugby Championship starts on Saturday with the organisers trumpeting that the tournament is, outside the World Cup, the ultimate test in rugby.A recent report into the sport's finances showed how the game in the north was far more lucrative than that in the south: bigger sponsorship and television deals and larger crowds. The Six Nations can claim to be the oldest and most popular annual tournament in the world but the southern hemisphere is laying claim to the quality title.\"The Rugby Championship is an annual contest between the best-of-the-best in world rugby,\" said Greg Peters, the Sanzar chief executive, pointing out that the four participants are ranked first, second, fourth and seventh in the world. \"It involves nations who have won six of the seven World Cups, while Argentina will offer a new dimension, playing an exciting and different brand of rugby to the other three teams.\"Different to New Zealand and Australia but the Pumas share with South Africa a penchant for more traditional aspects of the game: the rolling maul remains a thing of beauty in Tucum\u00e1n and beyond; their heroes are rough hewn rather than sculpted.Their first match is, fittingly, against South Africa in Cape Town on Saturday afternoon, a few hours after the battle between Australia and New Zealand in Sydney. The pace of the second is unlikely to threaten that of the first and of the old Tri-Nations teams, South Africa were the least impressive in their summer series against Six Nations opposition.They were under a new coach, Heyneke Meyer, and they did have injury problems, but the functional way Morne Steyn operates at outside-half leaves Bryan Habana an extra for the most part. In contrast, New Zealand and Australia play with width and the manner in which the All Blacks destroyed Ireland in the opening half of the third Test was exhilarating.Meyer was this week ruminating on how back rows will look in the future. Never mind the influence of Richie McCaw, David Pocock, Thierry Dusautoir and Sam Warburton for the four countries who reached the semi-finals in last year's World Cup, the former Leicester director of rugby, who is without the injured flanker Heinrich Brussow, believes the days of teams operating with a fetcher are reaching their end.\"The game has got a lot quicker so you need more athletic players,\" he said. \"It has become so because there is not as much competing on the ground and you need more than one guy in that area. If you look at the stats, most of the hookers have been the ball-stealers because usually the guy comes blind and the hooker is defending there.\"I think it will be interesting to see how they referee the breakdown because suddenly even New Zealand are \u2026 I won't say moving away but there are not a lot of specialist open-side flankers there. If you look at their top sides even the Chiefs didn't really have a specialist open-side. I have always believed in having a specialist there but it depends how they are going to referee it.\"Meyer's view is all the more interesting because one of the reasons South Africa's defence of the World Cup ended in Wellington at the quarter-final stage was that they were unable to combat \u2013 Brussow was injured 20 minutes in \u2013 Pocock at the breakdown.They accused the referee Bryce Lawrence of allowing Pocock's continual infringing but South Africa lost a match they should have won because of their own failings rather than the official's. Australia, like New Zealand, have far more in the way of creative ability, and while Australia were outplayed by Wales for long periods in this summer's three-Test series, they kept their composure and shape and came up with winning scores.The All Blacks will start as favourites, and not just because they are the World Cup holders. They won 10 of the 16 Tri-Nations titles and they were the only one of the competing sides to finish the series in credit: 50 victories in 72 matches compared with Australia's 29 and South Africa's 28.They have lost experience in the second row with Brad Thorn and Ali Williams no longer in the squad and their back-up half-backs are raw but as long as McCaw and Dan Carter remain fit, they will be the most likely winners.It will be a significant eight weeks for the Australia coach Robbie Deans. Victory over his native New Zealand on Saturday would relieve some of the pressure on him: his contract ends after next summer's series against the Lions, but while he has options behind, he is short at forward and has had to persuade the 36-year-old second row Nathan Sharpe to postpone his retirement.Three of Argentina's first four matches are away and they face a test of endurance with a squad of less depth than the others. One feature of the tournament is that no venue will host more than one match: the Pumas will host matches at Mendoza, La Plata and Rosario.The Rugby Championship will be played in three series of two rounds, like the group stage of the Heineken Cup except with a week's break after each of the first two batches. It will extend into October, stretching the season to nearly nine months with tours to Europe to follow. It will not be long before calls for a global season grow.\u2022 Click here to sign up to the Breakdown", "tags": ["Rugby union"], "title": "The Breakdown: Argentina add a bit of rough to the best-of-the-best | Paul Rees"},{"date": "2012-11-27T09:40:15Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has appealed against a US court order forcing it to pay $1.3bn (\u00a3810m) to hedge funds holding debts from the country's 2001 default.The economy minister in Buenos Aires said the US ruling was an \"attack on sovereignty\" as it filed an appeal in New York on Monday.Last week, US district judge Thomas Griesa ordered Argentina to pay out $1.3bn to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country's sovereign debt default a decade ago.About 93% of bondholders agreed to a restructuring that gave them back about 30p in the pound, but some hedge fund creditors refused the deal and are pursing Argentina through courts across the world. Argentina has refused to pay the hedge funds, which it describes as \"vultures\".The economic ministry said Griesa's ruling \"shows ignorance of the laws passed by our Congress\".Earlier on Monday, investors holding $1bn-worth of restructured Argentine debt filed an emergency motion in a US court to also fight the ruling, which they fear could prevent payment on their bonds and lead to a fresh default.They are concerned that if Argentina is forced to pay the so-called vulture funds it will reduce the amount of money the country has available to its other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on its existing $60bn of debts.In his ruling last week, Griesa said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"\"In accepting the exchange offers of 30 cents on the dollar, the exchange bondholders bargained for certainty and the avoidance of the burden and risk of litigating,\" he said. \"Moreover, it is hardly an injustice to have legal rulings which, at long last, mean that Argentina must pay the debts which it owes. After 10 years of litigation this is a just result.\"The judge made his ruling following claims led by Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management.", "tags": ["Hedge funds", "Argentina", "Financial sector", "Business", "Americas", "World news", "US news", "New York"], "title": "Argentina appeals against US hedge fund ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-27T09:40:15Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has appealed against a US court order forcing it to pay $1.3bn (\u00a3810m) to hedge funds holding debts from the country's 2001 default.The economy minister in Buenos Aires said the US ruling was an \"attack on sovereignty\" as it filed an appeal in New York on Monday.Last week, US district judge Thomas Griesa ordered Argentina to pay out $1.3bn to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country's sovereign debt default a decade ago.About 93% of bondholders agreed to a restructuring that gave them back about 30p in the pound, but some hedge fund creditors refused the deal and are pursing Argentina through courts across the world. Argentina has refused to pay the hedge funds, which it describes as \"vultures\".The economic ministry said Griesa's ruling \"shows ignorance of the laws passed by our Congress\".Earlier on Monday, investors holding $1bn-worth of restructured Argentine debt filed an emergency motion in a US court to also fight the ruling, which they fear could prevent payment on their bonds and lead to a fresh default.They are concerned that if Argentina is forced to pay the so-called vulture funds it will reduce the amount of money the country has available to its other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on its existing $60bn of debts.In his ruling last week, Griesa said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"\"In accepting the exchange offers of 30 cents on the dollar, the exchange bondholders bargained for certainty and the avoidance of the burden and risk of litigating,\" he said. \"Moreover, it is hardly an injustice to have legal rulings which, at long last, mean that Argentina must pay the debts which it owes. After 10 years of litigation this is a just result.\"The judge made his ruling following claims led by Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management.", "tags": ["Hedge funds", "Argentina", "Financial sector", "Business", "Americas", "World news", "US news", "New York"], "title": "Argentina appeals against US hedge fund ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-22T19:43:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentinian politicians and global debt campaigners have responded with fury to a US court judgment that risks plunging the country back into default.Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management, regarded as \"vulture funds\" by Buenos Aires, won a ruling in a New York court on Wednesday that could force Argentina to hand over $1.3bn (\u00a3816m) in repayments and interest to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country defaulted in 2001.Judge Thomas Griesa upheld his own ruling of last month backing Elliott Associates, and said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"In a strongly worded statement, Griesa said that Argentina should make repayments to the so-called holdouts at the same pace that it is repaying the vast majority of bondholders who did agree to a debt-swap. He also warned that US-based bank BNY Mellon, which handles Argentina's debt payments to US-based bondholders, would be acting \"in active concert\" with the republic, if it failed to comply with the ruling.If some of the country's repayments were diverted to the vulture funds, however, it could reduce the amount available for Argentina's other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on more than $60bn in outstanding debts. Buenos Aires has repeatedly made clear that it has no intention of paying anything to the plaintiffs in the case.Nick Dearden, director of the Jubilee Debt Campaign, said: \"It is completely outrageous that the intransigence of a couple of speculators can bring a sovereign nation to the verge of bankruptcy. These vulture funds never lent money to Argentina \u2013 they gambled on a crisis that caused enormous poverty and suffering in that country.\"Agust\u00edn Rossi, leader of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's bloc in the lower house of congress, described the ruling as \"absolutely despicable\".A spokesman for BNY Mellon said: \"As we indicated in our filing with the court, in our role as trustee we do not believe we should be bound by the injunction.\"Investors pushed up the price of insuring against a fresh default by Argentina , with short-dated credit default swaps putting the probability at 60%.Argentina's $95bn default more than a decade ago came in the midst of a wrenching financial and political crisis, after the International Monetary Fund withdrew financial support and the government decided it could no longer afford to prop up the value of the peso, which was pegged to the dollar. After years of fraught negotiations with investors, more than 90% signed up to a drastic writedown of more than 70% on the value of their debts in two separate deals in 2005 and 2010, which cleared the way for Argentina to return to international financial markets.But with no agreed international process for handling the bankruptcy of a state, the consequences of Argentina's default have played out over more than a decade, through scores of separate court rulings.Before the New York judge's latest ruling, Fern\u00e1ndez, the president, had already made it clear that her government does not intend to negotiate with the holdouts. \"We will not surrender money at the cost of hunger and exclusion for millions of Argentines,\" she said at a public appearance at a steel plant in Villa Constituci\u00f3n earlier this month.\"We are not going to give in,\" she said. \"We need to be intelligent, sensible and calm and not respond to provocations from those who want restore an ultraconservative regime that destroyed Argentina.\"\"These funds are vultures who seek to profit by betting on a technical default,\" Hern\u00e1n Lorenzino, the economy minister, said in anticipation of the ruling, warning that Argentina would fight the holdouts all the way. He pledged to pursue the issue through higher US courts. \"We will continue defending Argentina's interests at every instance necessary and that includes going before the US supreme court.\"The judge's decision comes at what is perhaps the most difficult moment in Fern\u00e1ndez's presidency, with popular discontent rising because of her government's failure to correct an economy that has begun stagnating after nearly a decade of continuous growth.Argentina was brought to a virtual standstill on Tuesday by the first national strike against her presidency, organised by the same Peronist labour unions who were once her staunchest supporters.The country ground to a halt as labour leaders demanded wage hikes to offset a yearly inflation rate that independent economists estimate at a yearly 25%. The middle class had already taken to the streets earlier this month when a million protesters took to the streets in various cities across Argentina also protesting against high inflation, economic stagnation, corruption in government and the rising crime rate that seems to be accompanying the ailing economy.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Argentina fears default after American court ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-27T09:40:15Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has appealed against a US court order forcing it to pay $1.3bn (\u00a3810m) to hedge funds holding debts from the country's 2001 default.The economy minister in Buenos Aires said the US ruling was an \"attack on sovereignty\" as it filed an appeal in New York on Monday.Last week, US district judge Thomas Griesa ordered Argentina to pay out $1.3bn to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country's sovereign debt default a decade ago.About 93% of bondholders agreed to a restructuring that gave them back about 30p in the pound, but some hedge fund creditors refused the deal and are pursing Argentina through courts across the world. Argentina has refused to pay the hedge funds, which it describes as \"vultures\".The economic ministry said Griesa's ruling \"shows ignorance of the laws passed by our Congress\".Earlier on Monday, investors holding $1bn-worth of restructured Argentine debt filed an emergency motion in a US court to also fight the ruling, which they fear could prevent payment on their bonds and lead to a fresh default.They are concerned that if Argentina is forced to pay the so-called vulture funds it will reduce the amount of money the country has available to its other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on its existing $60bn of debts.In his ruling last week, Griesa said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"\"In accepting the exchange offers of 30 cents on the dollar, the exchange bondholders bargained for certainty and the avoidance of the burden and risk of litigating,\" he said. \"Moreover, it is hardly an injustice to have legal rulings which, at long last, mean that Argentina must pay the debts which it owes. After 10 years of litigation this is a just result.\"The judge made his ruling following claims led by Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management.", "tags": ["Hedge funds", "Argentina", "Financial sector", "Business", "Americas", "World news", "US news", "New York"], "title": "Argentina appeals against US hedge fund ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-22T19:43:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentinian politicians and global debt campaigners have responded with fury to a US court judgment that risks plunging the country back into default.Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management, regarded as \"vulture funds\" by Buenos Aires, won a ruling in a New York court on Wednesday that could force Argentina to hand over $1.3bn (\u00a3816m) in repayments and interest to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country defaulted in 2001.Judge Thomas Griesa upheld his own ruling of last month backing Elliott Associates, and said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"In a strongly worded statement, Griesa said that Argentina should make repayments to the so-called holdouts at the same pace that it is repaying the vast majority of bondholders who did agree to a debt-swap. He also warned that US-based bank BNY Mellon, which handles Argentina's debt payments to US-based bondholders, would be acting \"in active concert\" with the republic, if it failed to comply with the ruling.If some of the country's repayments were diverted to the vulture funds, however, it could reduce the amount available for Argentina's other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on more than $60bn in outstanding debts. Buenos Aires has repeatedly made clear that it has no intention of paying anything to the plaintiffs in the case.Nick Dearden, director of the Jubilee Debt Campaign, said: \"It is completely outrageous that the intransigence of a couple of speculators can bring a sovereign nation to the verge of bankruptcy. These vulture funds never lent money to Argentina \u2013 they gambled on a crisis that caused enormous poverty and suffering in that country.\"Agust\u00edn Rossi, leader of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's bloc in the lower house of congress, described the ruling as \"absolutely despicable\".A spokesman for BNY Mellon said: \"As we indicated in our filing with the court, in our role as trustee we do not believe we should be bound by the injunction.\"Investors pushed up the price of insuring against a fresh default by Argentina , with short-dated credit default swaps putting the probability at 60%.Argentina's $95bn default more than a decade ago came in the midst of a wrenching financial and political crisis, after the International Monetary Fund withdrew financial support and the government decided it could no longer afford to prop up the value of the peso, which was pegged to the dollar. After years of fraught negotiations with investors, more than 90% signed up to a drastic writedown of more than 70% on the value of their debts in two separate deals in 2005 and 2010, which cleared the way for Argentina to return to international financial markets.But with no agreed international process for handling the bankruptcy of a state, the consequences of Argentina's default have played out over more than a decade, through scores of separate court rulings.Before the New York judge's latest ruling, Fern\u00e1ndez, the president, had already made it clear that her government does not intend to negotiate with the holdouts. \"We will not surrender money at the cost of hunger and exclusion for millions of Argentines,\" she said at a public appearance at a steel plant in Villa Constituci\u00f3n earlier this month.\"We are not going to give in,\" she said. \"We need to be intelligent, sensible and calm and not respond to provocations from those who want restore an ultraconservative regime that destroyed Argentina.\"\"These funds are vultures who seek to profit by betting on a technical default,\" Hern\u00e1n Lorenzino, the economy minister, said in anticipation of the ruling, warning that Argentina would fight the holdouts all the way. He pledged to pursue the issue through higher US courts. \"We will continue defending Argentina's interests at every instance necessary and that includes going before the US supreme court.\"The judge's decision comes at what is perhaps the most difficult moment in Fern\u00e1ndez's presidency, with popular discontent rising because of her government's failure to correct an economy that has begun stagnating after nearly a decade of continuous growth.Argentina was brought to a virtual standstill on Tuesday by the first national strike against her presidency, organised by the same Peronist labour unions who were once her staunchest supporters.The country ground to a halt as labour leaders demanded wage hikes to offset a yearly inflation rate that independent economists estimate at a yearly 25%. The middle class had already taken to the streets earlier this month when a million protesters took to the streets in various cities across Argentina also protesting against high inflation, economic stagnation, corruption in government and the rising crime rate that seems to be accompanying the ailing economy.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Argentina fears default after American court ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-06T20:33:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is braced for a wave of protests against the government of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, amid growing disquiet over a faltering economy and efforts to clamp down on the media.Activists hope to rally thousands of people on Thursday for a string of demonstrations against a proposed constitutional reform that would allow Fern\u00e1ndez to seek a third term in 2015, and a move to break up the country's main media group.In the five years since Fern\u00e1ndez succeeded her husband N\u00e9stor Kirchner in office, Argentina has grown increasingly polarised between those who argue the president's reforms will create a more egalitarian society, and opponents who accuse her creeping authoritarianism.\"A wide gulf has opened,\" said Jorge Lanata, the chain-smoking journalist whose weekly satirical TV show Periodismo Para Todos (Journalism For All) has helped shift the balance of public opinion.\"On one side you have the government and its supporters who are convinced they are carrying out a revolution \u2013 and it's logical that you shouldn't respect freedom of the press or the constitution if you're engaged in a revolution,\" said Lanata. \"On the other are the people who defend democracy, who are horrified at seeing freedom of the press and the Constitution attacked.\"With Fern\u00e1ndez's political rivals in disarray, the role of the opposition has been taken up by journalists such as Lanata and internet-based activists, such asMariana Torres, a 41-year-old divorced mother of three who runs one of the main Facebook pages behind the anti-government protests. \"I started navigating the internet looking for a job when my marriage broke up,\" she says. \"That's when I discovered the Facebook pages that criticize the government.\"Torres's Facebook group and others like it helped muster thousands of saucepan-banging protesters who took to the streets on 13 September after the government's ban on buying dollars \u2013 a move that sparked fury in a nation where US banknotes have long been a safeguard against the fluctuating exchange rates.Fern\u00e1ndez's supporters say the protests are the result of a far-right conspiracy, a charge denied by Torres's fellow Facebook administrator, Marcelo Mor\u00e1n. Although there are a large number of similar anonymously-run pages, Torres and Mor\u00e1n stand out because they have decided to show their faces.\"We do not represent any political party,\" he said. \"On the contrary, we are just as worried about the opposition politicians.\"Lanata admits his programme, which combines hard-hitting reports on corruption with comedy sketches featuring mocking Fern\u00e1ndez and Venezuelan president Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, has been a catalyst for dissent. \"In my first programme I said I hoped we could learn to lose our fear, and that seems to have happened: people are now willing to speak out against this government.\"But to the president's supporters Lanata represents the kind of corporate media whose power President Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has vowed to rein in.\"There is a sector that historically and since the beginning of this government has opposed projects of social inclusion, justice and distribution,\" said the cabinet chief, Juan Manuel Abal Medina after a nationwide rally against constitutional reform in September.\"Those sectors in the past resorted to coup d'\u00e9tats, today they resort to the big media. They are privileged classes who seek to keep their privileges.\"Lanata's show is broadcast on Channel 13, part of the country's largest media conglomerate, which also publishes Argentina's largest newspaper, Clar\u00edn. The group is widely perceived to be the target of a new media law which comes into effect on 7 December, forcing it to sell off its non-print holdings including the largest cable and internet operator in Argentina \u2013 and its main income earner, and possibly the Channel 13.The slogan \"Clar\u00edn Lies\" is printed on banners hanging from government buildings and was emblazoned on the T-shirt of during last year's election campaign.At Clar\u00edn itself the atmosphere is tense. \"We don't know exactly what will happen,\" says managing editor Ricardo Kirschbaum. \"There are rumours the government plans to take over Cablevision that day, which undoubtedly would affect us at the newspaper.\"", "tags": ["Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner reforms spark Argentina protests"},{"date": "2012-11-27T09:40:15Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has appealed against a US court order forcing it to pay $1.3bn (\u00a3810m) to hedge funds holding debts from the country's 2001 default.The economy minister in Buenos Aires said the US ruling was an \"attack on sovereignty\" as it filed an appeal in New York on Monday.Last week, US district judge Thomas Griesa ordered Argentina to pay out $1.3bn to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country's sovereign debt default a decade ago.About 93% of bondholders agreed to a restructuring that gave them back about 30p in the pound, but some hedge fund creditors refused the deal and are pursing Argentina through courts across the world. Argentina has refused to pay the hedge funds, which it describes as \"vultures\".The economic ministry said Griesa's ruling \"shows ignorance of the laws passed by our Congress\".Earlier on Monday, investors holding $1bn-worth of restructured Argentine debt filed an emergency motion in a US court to also fight the ruling, which they fear could prevent payment on their bonds and lead to a fresh default.They are concerned that if Argentina is forced to pay the so-called vulture funds it will reduce the amount of money the country has available to its other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on its existing $60bn of debts.In his ruling last week, Griesa said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"\"In accepting the exchange offers of 30 cents on the dollar, the exchange bondholders bargained for certainty and the avoidance of the burden and risk of litigating,\" he said. \"Moreover, it is hardly an injustice to have legal rulings which, at long last, mean that Argentina must pay the debts which it owes. After 10 years of litigation this is a just result.\"The judge made his ruling following claims led by Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management.", "tags": ["Hedge funds", "Argentina", "Financial sector", "Business", "Americas", "World news", "US news", "New York"], "title": "Argentina appeals against US hedge fund ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-22T19:43:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentinian politicians and global debt campaigners have responded with fury to a US court judgment that risks plunging the country back into default.Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management, regarded as \"vulture funds\" by Buenos Aires, won a ruling in a New York court on Wednesday that could force Argentina to hand over $1.3bn (\u00a3816m) in repayments and interest to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country defaulted in 2001.Judge Thomas Griesa upheld his own ruling of last month backing Elliott Associates, and said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"In a strongly worded statement, Griesa said that Argentina should make repayments to the so-called holdouts at the same pace that it is repaying the vast majority of bondholders who did agree to a debt-swap. He also warned that US-based bank BNY Mellon, which handles Argentina's debt payments to US-based bondholders, would be acting \"in active concert\" with the republic, if it failed to comply with the ruling.If some of the country's repayments were diverted to the vulture funds, however, it could reduce the amount available for Argentina's other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on more than $60bn in outstanding debts. Buenos Aires has repeatedly made clear that it has no intention of paying anything to the plaintiffs in the case.Nick Dearden, director of the Jubilee Debt Campaign, said: \"It is completely outrageous that the intransigence of a couple of speculators can bring a sovereign nation to the verge of bankruptcy. These vulture funds never lent money to Argentina \u2013 they gambled on a crisis that caused enormous poverty and suffering in that country.\"Agust\u00edn Rossi, leader of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's bloc in the lower house of congress, described the ruling as \"absolutely despicable\".A spokesman for BNY Mellon said: \"As we indicated in our filing with the court, in our role as trustee we do not believe we should be bound by the injunction.\"Investors pushed up the price of insuring against a fresh default by Argentina , with short-dated credit default swaps putting the probability at 60%.Argentina's $95bn default more than a decade ago came in the midst of a wrenching financial and political crisis, after the International Monetary Fund withdrew financial support and the government decided it could no longer afford to prop up the value of the peso, which was pegged to the dollar. After years of fraught negotiations with investors, more than 90% signed up to a drastic writedown of more than 70% on the value of their debts in two separate deals in 2005 and 2010, which cleared the way for Argentina to return to international financial markets.But with no agreed international process for handling the bankruptcy of a state, the consequences of Argentina's default have played out over more than a decade, through scores of separate court rulings.Before the New York judge's latest ruling, Fern\u00e1ndez, the president, had already made it clear that her government does not intend to negotiate with the holdouts. \"We will not surrender money at the cost of hunger and exclusion for millions of Argentines,\" she said at a public appearance at a steel plant in Villa Constituci\u00f3n earlier this month.\"We are not going to give in,\" she said. \"We need to be intelligent, sensible and calm and not respond to provocations from those who want restore an ultraconservative regime that destroyed Argentina.\"\"These funds are vultures who seek to profit by betting on a technical default,\" Hern\u00e1n Lorenzino, the economy minister, said in anticipation of the ruling, warning that Argentina would fight the holdouts all the way. He pledged to pursue the issue through higher US courts. \"We will continue defending Argentina's interests at every instance necessary and that includes going before the US supreme court.\"The judge's decision comes at what is perhaps the most difficult moment in Fern\u00e1ndez's presidency, with popular discontent rising because of her government's failure to correct an economy that has begun stagnating after nearly a decade of continuous growth.Argentina was brought to a virtual standstill on Tuesday by the first national strike against her presidency, organised by the same Peronist labour unions who were once her staunchest supporters.The country ground to a halt as labour leaders demanded wage hikes to offset a yearly inflation rate that independent economists estimate at a yearly 25%. The middle class had already taken to the streets earlier this month when a million protesters took to the streets in various cities across Argentina also protesting against high inflation, economic stagnation, corruption in government and the rising crime rate that seems to be accompanying the ailing economy.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Argentina fears default after American court ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-06T20:33:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is braced for a wave of protests against the government of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, amid growing disquiet over a faltering economy and efforts to clamp down on the media.Activists hope to rally thousands of people on Thursday for a string of demonstrations against a proposed constitutional reform that would allow Fern\u00e1ndez to seek a third term in 2015, and a move to break up the country's main media group.In the five years since Fern\u00e1ndez succeeded her husband N\u00e9stor Kirchner in office, Argentina has grown increasingly polarised between those who argue the president's reforms will create a more egalitarian society, and opponents who accuse her creeping authoritarianism.\"A wide gulf has opened,\" said Jorge Lanata, the chain-smoking journalist whose weekly satirical TV show Periodismo Para Todos (Journalism For All) has helped shift the balance of public opinion.\"On one side you have the government and its supporters who are convinced they are carrying out a revolution \u2013 and it's logical that you shouldn't respect freedom of the press or the constitution if you're engaged in a revolution,\" said Lanata. \"On the other are the people who defend democracy, who are horrified at seeing freedom of the press and the Constitution attacked.\"With Fern\u00e1ndez's political rivals in disarray, the role of the opposition has been taken up by journalists such as Lanata and internet-based activists, such asMariana Torres, a 41-year-old divorced mother of three who runs one of the main Facebook pages behind the anti-government protests. \"I started navigating the internet looking for a job when my marriage broke up,\" she says. \"That's when I discovered the Facebook pages that criticize the government.\"Torres's Facebook group and others like it helped muster thousands of saucepan-banging protesters who took to the streets on 13 September after the government's ban on buying dollars \u2013 a move that sparked fury in a nation where US banknotes have long been a safeguard against the fluctuating exchange rates.Fern\u00e1ndez's supporters say the protests are the result of a far-right conspiracy, a charge denied by Torres's fellow Facebook administrator, Marcelo Mor\u00e1n. Although there are a large number of similar anonymously-run pages, Torres and Mor\u00e1n stand out because they have decided to show their faces.\"We do not represent any political party,\" he said. \"On the contrary, we are just as worried about the opposition politicians.\"Lanata admits his programme, which combines hard-hitting reports on corruption with comedy sketches featuring mocking Fern\u00e1ndez and Venezuelan president Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, has been a catalyst for dissent. \"In my first programme I said I hoped we could learn to lose our fear, and that seems to have happened: people are now willing to speak out against this government.\"But to the president's supporters Lanata represents the kind of corporate media whose power President Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has vowed to rein in.\"There is a sector that historically and since the beginning of this government has opposed projects of social inclusion, justice and distribution,\" said the cabinet chief, Juan Manuel Abal Medina after a nationwide rally against constitutional reform in September.\"Those sectors in the past resorted to coup d'\u00e9tats, today they resort to the big media. They are privileged classes who seek to keep their privileges.\"Lanata's show is broadcast on Channel 13, part of the country's largest media conglomerate, which also publishes Argentina's largest newspaper, Clar\u00edn. The group is widely perceived to be the target of a new media law which comes into effect on 7 December, forcing it to sell off its non-print holdings including the largest cable and internet operator in Argentina \u2013 and its main income earner, and possibly the Channel 13.The slogan \"Clar\u00edn Lies\" is printed on banners hanging from government buildings and was emblazoned on the T-shirt of during last year's election campaign.At Clar\u00edn itself the atmosphere is tense. \"We don't know exactly what will happen,\" says managing editor Ricardo Kirschbaum. \"There are rumours the government plans to take over Cablevision that day, which undoubtedly would affect us at the newspaper.\"", "tags": ["Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner reforms spark Argentina protests"},{"date": "2012-12-16T18:10:31Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina faces the prospect of eviction from the world economic community after its apparent failure to respond to a three-month deadline set by the International Monetary Fund to produce accurate inflation and growth statistics.Ejection from the IMF could lead to a variety of economic and political penalties, including exclusion from the G20 of industrial nations. IMF rules state that member states \"must not co-operate with a non-member in practices that would be contrary to \u2026 the purposes of the Fund\".Some experts believe the IMF's managing director, Christine Lagarde, has lost patience with President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's government. A spokesman for the IMF has said that a report will be submitted to its board on Monday which will decide the course of action.Official inflation statistics in Argentina show prices rising at around 10% but independent assessments have prices rising at 25% and more. The problem that inflation is running higher than official figures is acknowledged by Gabriela Cerruti, an MP from the governing party.Cerruti said: \"I think the real problem is if you have unemployment, or you're losing your home, not the statistics themselves. People always argue over statistics. Prices may be rising up to 20% a year, but people's pay is also going up by 20%.\"Criticism of Argentina dates back to 2007, when the inflation rate first began to rise sharply into double-figures. The trade ministry responded at the time by replacing the director of consumer pricing at the government statistics agency, Graciela Bevacqua.As well as losing her job, Bevacqua faced prosecution on a range of charges, from damaging the Argentine economy to embezzlement and receiving bribes. None of the criminal charges have been upheld in court, although she has been forced to pay fines for publishing her own unofficial inflation rate, which like most others is now about 150% higher than the government's published figure of around 10% per year.Rising prices have been a major spur to recent mass protests against Kirchner's government in the capital Buenos Aires.But Cerruti echoes the Argentine president's argument that the country must not give in to what they see as international blackmail, and the view, widely held in Argentina, that the IMF was itself the cause of many of the problems that led to the country's major default and crisis in 2001.\"All these big world organisations are trying to say what we have to do with our economy. They are saying we have no transparency just because we don't do what the big world organisations want us to do. We are doing very well, so maybe it's time for other countries to see what's going on here,\" Cerruti said.Argentina has recorded nearly 8% growth since 2003 although critics say that the figures are suspect. Growth has now stalled, and attempts to conceal real inflation figures and suppress wage demands, they argue, have got the government into an ever-worsening mess.Ed Butler presents the BBC Assignment programme Argentina's Numbers Game on World Service Radio", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "G20", "Inflation", "Americas", "Economics", "Business", "World news", "Global development", "Governance"], "title": "Argentina faces IMF penalties over failure to meet inflation deadline"},{"date": "2012-11-27T09:40:15Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has appealed against a US court order forcing it to pay $1.3bn (\u00a3810m) to hedge funds holding debts from the country's 2001 default.The economy minister in Buenos Aires said the US ruling was an \"attack on sovereignty\" as it filed an appeal in New York on Monday.Last week, US district judge Thomas Griesa ordered Argentina to pay out $1.3bn to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country's sovereign debt default a decade ago.About 93% of bondholders agreed to a restructuring that gave them back about 30p in the pound, but some hedge fund creditors refused the deal and are pursing Argentina through courts across the world. Argentina has refused to pay the hedge funds, which it describes as \"vultures\".The economic ministry said Griesa's ruling \"shows ignorance of the laws passed by our Congress\".Earlier on Monday, investors holding $1bn-worth of restructured Argentine debt filed an emergency motion in a US court to also fight the ruling, which they fear could prevent payment on their bonds and lead to a fresh default.They are concerned that if Argentina is forced to pay the so-called vulture funds it will reduce the amount of money the country has available to its other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on its existing $60bn of debts.In his ruling last week, Griesa said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"\"In accepting the exchange offers of 30 cents on the dollar, the exchange bondholders bargained for certainty and the avoidance of the burden and risk of litigating,\" he said. \"Moreover, it is hardly an injustice to have legal rulings which, at long last, mean that Argentina must pay the debts which it owes. After 10 years of litigation this is a just result.\"The judge made his ruling following claims led by Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management.", "tags": ["Hedge funds", "Argentina", "Financial sector", "Business", "Americas", "World news", "US news", "New York"], "title": "Argentina appeals against US hedge fund ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-22T19:43:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentinian politicians and global debt campaigners have responded with fury to a US court judgment that risks plunging the country back into default.Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management, regarded as \"vulture funds\" by Buenos Aires, won a ruling in a New York court on Wednesday that could force Argentina to hand over $1.3bn (\u00a3816m) in repayments and interest to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country defaulted in 2001.Judge Thomas Griesa upheld his own ruling of last month backing Elliott Associates, and said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"In a strongly worded statement, Griesa said that Argentina should make repayments to the so-called holdouts at the same pace that it is repaying the vast majority of bondholders who did agree to a debt-swap. He also warned that US-based bank BNY Mellon, which handles Argentina's debt payments to US-based bondholders, would be acting \"in active concert\" with the republic, if it failed to comply with the ruling.If some of the country's repayments were diverted to the vulture funds, however, it could reduce the amount available for Argentina's other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on more than $60bn in outstanding debts. Buenos Aires has repeatedly made clear that it has no intention of paying anything to the plaintiffs in the case.Nick Dearden, director of the Jubilee Debt Campaign, said: \"It is completely outrageous that the intransigence of a couple of speculators can bring a sovereign nation to the verge of bankruptcy. These vulture funds never lent money to Argentina \u2013 they gambled on a crisis that caused enormous poverty and suffering in that country.\"Agust\u00edn Rossi, leader of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's bloc in the lower house of congress, described the ruling as \"absolutely despicable\".A spokesman for BNY Mellon said: \"As we indicated in our filing with the court, in our role as trustee we do not believe we should be bound by the injunction.\"Investors pushed up the price of insuring against a fresh default by Argentina , with short-dated credit default swaps putting the probability at 60%.Argentina's $95bn default more than a decade ago came in the midst of a wrenching financial and political crisis, after the International Monetary Fund withdrew financial support and the government decided it could no longer afford to prop up the value of the peso, which was pegged to the dollar. After years of fraught negotiations with investors, more than 90% signed up to a drastic writedown of more than 70% on the value of their debts in two separate deals in 2005 and 2010, which cleared the way for Argentina to return to international financial markets.But with no agreed international process for handling the bankruptcy of a state, the consequences of Argentina's default have played out over more than a decade, through scores of separate court rulings.Before the New York judge's latest ruling, Fern\u00e1ndez, the president, had already made it clear that her government does not intend to negotiate with the holdouts. \"We will not surrender money at the cost of hunger and exclusion for millions of Argentines,\" she said at a public appearance at a steel plant in Villa Constituci\u00f3n earlier this month.\"We are not going to give in,\" she said. \"We need to be intelligent, sensible and calm and not respond to provocations from those who want restore an ultraconservative regime that destroyed Argentina.\"\"These funds are vultures who seek to profit by betting on a technical default,\" Hern\u00e1n Lorenzino, the economy minister, said in anticipation of the ruling, warning that Argentina would fight the holdouts all the way. He pledged to pursue the issue through higher US courts. \"We will continue defending Argentina's interests at every instance necessary and that includes going before the US supreme court.\"The judge's decision comes at what is perhaps the most difficult moment in Fern\u00e1ndez's presidency, with popular discontent rising because of her government's failure to correct an economy that has begun stagnating after nearly a decade of continuous growth.Argentina was brought to a virtual standstill on Tuesday by the first national strike against her presidency, organised by the same Peronist labour unions who were once her staunchest supporters.The country ground to a halt as labour leaders demanded wage hikes to offset a yearly inflation rate that independent economists estimate at a yearly 25%. The middle class had already taken to the streets earlier this month when a million protesters took to the streets in various cities across Argentina also protesting against high inflation, economic stagnation, corruption in government and the rising crime rate that seems to be accompanying the ailing economy.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Argentina fears default after American court ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-06T20:33:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is braced for a wave of protests against the government of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, amid growing disquiet over a faltering economy and efforts to clamp down on the media.Activists hope to rally thousands of people on Thursday for a string of demonstrations against a proposed constitutional reform that would allow Fern\u00e1ndez to seek a third term in 2015, and a move to break up the country's main media group.In the five years since Fern\u00e1ndez succeeded her husband N\u00e9stor Kirchner in office, Argentina has grown increasingly polarised between those who argue the president's reforms will create a more egalitarian society, and opponents who accuse her creeping authoritarianism.\"A wide gulf has opened,\" said Jorge Lanata, the chain-smoking journalist whose weekly satirical TV show Periodismo Para Todos (Journalism For All) has helped shift the balance of public opinion.\"On one side you have the government and its supporters who are convinced they are carrying out a revolution \u2013 and it's logical that you shouldn't respect freedom of the press or the constitution if you're engaged in a revolution,\" said Lanata. \"On the other are the people who defend democracy, who are horrified at seeing freedom of the press and the Constitution attacked.\"With Fern\u00e1ndez's political rivals in disarray, the role of the opposition has been taken up by journalists such as Lanata and internet-based activists, such asMariana Torres, a 41-year-old divorced mother of three who runs one of the main Facebook pages behind the anti-government protests. \"I started navigating the internet looking for a job when my marriage broke up,\" she says. \"That's when I discovered the Facebook pages that criticize the government.\"Torres's Facebook group and others like it helped muster thousands of saucepan-banging protesters who took to the streets on 13 September after the government's ban on buying dollars \u2013 a move that sparked fury in a nation where US banknotes have long been a safeguard against the fluctuating exchange rates.Fern\u00e1ndez's supporters say the protests are the result of a far-right conspiracy, a charge denied by Torres's fellow Facebook administrator, Marcelo Mor\u00e1n. Although there are a large number of similar anonymously-run pages, Torres and Mor\u00e1n stand out because they have decided to show their faces.\"We do not represent any political party,\" he said. \"On the contrary, we are just as worried about the opposition politicians.\"Lanata admits his programme, which combines hard-hitting reports on corruption with comedy sketches featuring mocking Fern\u00e1ndez and Venezuelan president Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, has been a catalyst for dissent. \"In my first programme I said I hoped we could learn to lose our fear, and that seems to have happened: people are now willing to speak out against this government.\"But to the president's supporters Lanata represents the kind of corporate media whose power President Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has vowed to rein in.\"There is a sector that historically and since the beginning of this government has opposed projects of social inclusion, justice and distribution,\" said the cabinet chief, Juan Manuel Abal Medina after a nationwide rally against constitutional reform in September.\"Those sectors in the past resorted to coup d'\u00e9tats, today they resort to the big media. They are privileged classes who seek to keep their privileges.\"Lanata's show is broadcast on Channel 13, part of the country's largest media conglomerate, which also publishes Argentina's largest newspaper, Clar\u00edn. The group is widely perceived to be the target of a new media law which comes into effect on 7 December, forcing it to sell off its non-print holdings including the largest cable and internet operator in Argentina \u2013 and its main income earner, and possibly the Channel 13.The slogan \"Clar\u00edn Lies\" is printed on banners hanging from government buildings and was emblazoned on the T-shirt of during last year's election campaign.At Clar\u00edn itself the atmosphere is tense. \"We don't know exactly what will happen,\" says managing editor Ricardo Kirschbaum. \"There are rumours the government plans to take over Cablevision that day, which undoubtedly would affect us at the newspaper.\"", "tags": ["Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner reforms spark Argentina protests"},{"date": "2012-12-16T18:10:31Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina faces the prospect of eviction from the world economic community after its apparent failure to respond to a three-month deadline set by the International Monetary Fund to produce accurate inflation and growth statistics.Ejection from the IMF could lead to a variety of economic and political penalties, including exclusion from the G20 of industrial nations. IMF rules state that member states \"must not co-operate with a non-member in practices that would be contrary to \u2026 the purposes of the Fund\".Some experts believe the IMF's managing director, Christine Lagarde, has lost patience with President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's government. A spokesman for the IMF has said that a report will be submitted to its board on Monday which will decide the course of action.Official inflation statistics in Argentina show prices rising at around 10% but independent assessments have prices rising at 25% and more. The problem that inflation is running higher than official figures is acknowledged by Gabriela Cerruti, an MP from the governing party.Cerruti said: \"I think the real problem is if you have unemployment, or you're losing your home, not the statistics themselves. People always argue over statistics. Prices may be rising up to 20% a year, but people's pay is also going up by 20%.\"Criticism of Argentina dates back to 2007, when the inflation rate first began to rise sharply into double-figures. The trade ministry responded at the time by replacing the director of consumer pricing at the government statistics agency, Graciela Bevacqua.As well as losing her job, Bevacqua faced prosecution on a range of charges, from damaging the Argentine economy to embezzlement and receiving bribes. None of the criminal charges have been upheld in court, although she has been forced to pay fines for publishing her own unofficial inflation rate, which like most others is now about 150% higher than the government's published figure of around 10% per year.Rising prices have been a major spur to recent mass protests against Kirchner's government in the capital Buenos Aires.But Cerruti echoes the Argentine president's argument that the country must not give in to what they see as international blackmail, and the view, widely held in Argentina, that the IMF was itself the cause of many of the problems that led to the country's major default and crisis in 2001.\"All these big world organisations are trying to say what we have to do with our economy. They are saying we have no transparency just because we don't do what the big world organisations want us to do. We are doing very well, so maybe it's time for other countries to see what's going on here,\" Cerruti said.Argentina has recorded nearly 8% growth since 2003 although critics say that the figures are suspect. Growth has now stalled, and attempts to conceal real inflation figures and suppress wage demands, they argue, have got the government into an ever-worsening mess.Ed Butler presents the BBC Assignment programme Argentina's Numbers Game on World Service Radio", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "G20", "Inflation", "Americas", "Economics", "Business", "World news", "Global development", "Governance"], "title": "Argentina faces IMF penalties over failure to meet inflation deadline"},{"date": "2012-12-21T17:49:30Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has presented a formal note of protest to the UK ambassador over the naming of a large area of Antarctica as Queen Elizabeth Land.The note handed over by the foreign ministry to John Freeman in Buenos Aires criticised the UK's \"anachronistic imperialist ambitions that hark back to ancient practices\".The newly named area has long been claimed by Argentina as its own, along with other contested areas in the south Atlantic including the Falkland Islands, which Argentina claims as Las Malvinas.The note expressed Argentina's \"firmest rejection of the recently announced pretension of the government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of naming an area of the Argentine Antarctic sector\".The ministry accused London of infringing the spirit of the Antarctic treaty, signed in 1959 in Washington DC by 50 nations including Britain and Argentina to preserve the Antarctic from territorial disputes by guaranteeing freedom of scientific investigation and banning military activity on the continent.Two days ago Argentina's senate unanimously rejected the territory's new name.Other British-controlled territories over which Argentina claims sovereignty in the south Atlantic include the South Georgias and Sandwich islands. The island of King George is named 25 de Mayo on Argentinian maps, referring to the date of the revolution against Spain in 1810.The practice of naming places by different names that correspond to the individual histories of signatory nations of the Antarctic treaty is common. A diplomatic source said: \"The new placename could affect the already strained feelings between Britain and Argentina but it does not vulnerate the treaty.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Antarctica", "Americas", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "The Queen", "Monarchy", "UK news"], "title": "Argentina complains to UK over Queen Elizabeth Land 'imperialism'"},{"date": "2012-11-27T09:40:15Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has appealed against a US court order forcing it to pay $1.3bn (\u00a3810m) to hedge funds holding debts from the country's 2001 default.The economy minister in Buenos Aires said the US ruling was an \"attack on sovereignty\" as it filed an appeal in New York on Monday.Last week, US district judge Thomas Griesa ordered Argentina to pay out $1.3bn to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country's sovereign debt default a decade ago.About 93% of bondholders agreed to a restructuring that gave them back about 30p in the pound, but some hedge fund creditors refused the deal and are pursing Argentina through courts across the world. Argentina has refused to pay the hedge funds, which it describes as \"vultures\".The economic ministry said Griesa's ruling \"shows ignorance of the laws passed by our Congress\".Earlier on Monday, investors holding $1bn-worth of restructured Argentine debt filed an emergency motion in a US court to also fight the ruling, which they fear could prevent payment on their bonds and lead to a fresh default.They are concerned that if Argentina is forced to pay the so-called vulture funds it will reduce the amount of money the country has available to its other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on its existing $60bn of debts.In his ruling last week, Griesa said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"\"In accepting the exchange offers of 30 cents on the dollar, the exchange bondholders bargained for certainty and the avoidance of the burden and risk of litigating,\" he said. \"Moreover, it is hardly an injustice to have legal rulings which, at long last, mean that Argentina must pay the debts which it owes. After 10 years of litigation this is a just result.\"The judge made his ruling following claims led by Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management.", "tags": ["Hedge funds", "Argentina", "Financial sector", "Business", "Americas", "World news", "US news", "New York"], "title": "Argentina appeals against US hedge fund ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-22T19:43:29Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentinian politicians and global debt campaigners have responded with fury to a US court judgment that risks plunging the country back into default.Elliott Capital Management and Aurelius Capital Management, regarded as \"vulture funds\" by Buenos Aires, won a ruling in a New York court on Wednesday that could force Argentina to hand over $1.3bn (\u00a3816m) in repayments and interest to the tiny minority of bondholders who refused to sign up to a hard-fought writedown of its debts after the country defaulted in 2001.Judge Thomas Griesa upheld his own ruling of last month backing Elliott Associates, and said: \"Argentina owes this and owes it now.\"In a strongly worded statement, Griesa said that Argentina should make repayments to the so-called holdouts at the same pace that it is repaying the vast majority of bondholders who did agree to a debt-swap. He also warned that US-based bank BNY Mellon, which handles Argentina's debt payments to US-based bondholders, would be acting \"in active concert\" with the republic, if it failed to comply with the ruling.If some of the country's repayments were diverted to the vulture funds, however, it could reduce the amount available for Argentina's other lenders, pushing it into a technical default on more than $60bn in outstanding debts. Buenos Aires has repeatedly made clear that it has no intention of paying anything to the plaintiffs in the case.Nick Dearden, director of the Jubilee Debt Campaign, said: \"It is completely outrageous that the intransigence of a couple of speculators can bring a sovereign nation to the verge of bankruptcy. These vulture funds never lent money to Argentina \u2013 they gambled on a crisis that caused enormous poverty and suffering in that country.\"Agust\u00edn Rossi, leader of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's bloc in the lower house of congress, described the ruling as \"absolutely despicable\".A spokesman for BNY Mellon said: \"As we indicated in our filing with the court, in our role as trustee we do not believe we should be bound by the injunction.\"Investors pushed up the price of insuring against a fresh default by Argentina , with short-dated credit default swaps putting the probability at 60%.Argentina's $95bn default more than a decade ago came in the midst of a wrenching financial and political crisis, after the International Monetary Fund withdrew financial support and the government decided it could no longer afford to prop up the value of the peso, which was pegged to the dollar. After years of fraught negotiations with investors, more than 90% signed up to a drastic writedown of more than 70% on the value of their debts in two separate deals in 2005 and 2010, which cleared the way for Argentina to return to international financial markets.But with no agreed international process for handling the bankruptcy of a state, the consequences of Argentina's default have played out over more than a decade, through scores of separate court rulings.Before the New York judge's latest ruling, Fern\u00e1ndez, the president, had already made it clear that her government does not intend to negotiate with the holdouts. \"We will not surrender money at the cost of hunger and exclusion for millions of Argentines,\" she said at a public appearance at a steel plant in Villa Constituci\u00f3n earlier this month.\"We are not going to give in,\" she said. \"We need to be intelligent, sensible and calm and not respond to provocations from those who want restore an ultraconservative regime that destroyed Argentina.\"\"These funds are vultures who seek to profit by betting on a technical default,\" Hern\u00e1n Lorenzino, the economy minister, said in anticipation of the ruling, warning that Argentina would fight the holdouts all the way. He pledged to pursue the issue through higher US courts. \"We will continue defending Argentina's interests at every instance necessary and that includes going before the US supreme court.\"The judge's decision comes at what is perhaps the most difficult moment in Fern\u00e1ndez's presidency, with popular discontent rising because of her government's failure to correct an economy that has begun stagnating after nearly a decade of continuous growth.Argentina was brought to a virtual standstill on Tuesday by the first national strike against her presidency, organised by the same Peronist labour unions who were once her staunchest supporters.The country ground to a halt as labour leaders demanded wage hikes to offset a yearly inflation rate that independent economists estimate at a yearly 25%. The middle class had already taken to the streets earlier this month when a million protesters took to the streets in various cities across Argentina also protesting against high inflation, economic stagnation, corruption in government and the rising crime rate that seems to be accompanying the ailing economy.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Argentina fears default after American court ruling"},{"date": "2012-11-06T20:33:39Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is braced for a wave of protests against the government of Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, amid growing disquiet over a faltering economy and efforts to clamp down on the media.Activists hope to rally thousands of people on Thursday for a string of demonstrations against a proposed constitutional reform that would allow Fern\u00e1ndez to seek a third term in 2015, and a move to break up the country's main media group.In the five years since Fern\u00e1ndez succeeded her husband N\u00e9stor Kirchner in office, Argentina has grown increasingly polarised between those who argue the president's reforms will create a more egalitarian society, and opponents who accuse her creeping authoritarianism.\"A wide gulf has opened,\" said Jorge Lanata, the chain-smoking journalist whose weekly satirical TV show Periodismo Para Todos (Journalism For All) has helped shift the balance of public opinion.\"On one side you have the government and its supporters who are convinced they are carrying out a revolution \u2013 and it's logical that you shouldn't respect freedom of the press or the constitution if you're engaged in a revolution,\" said Lanata. \"On the other are the people who defend democracy, who are horrified at seeing freedom of the press and the Constitution attacked.\"With Fern\u00e1ndez's political rivals in disarray, the role of the opposition has been taken up by journalists such as Lanata and internet-based activists, such asMariana Torres, a 41-year-old divorced mother of three who runs one of the main Facebook pages behind the anti-government protests. \"I started navigating the internet looking for a job when my marriage broke up,\" she says. \"That's when I discovered the Facebook pages that criticize the government.\"Torres's Facebook group and others like it helped muster thousands of saucepan-banging protesters who took to the streets on 13 September after the government's ban on buying dollars \u2013 a move that sparked fury in a nation where US banknotes have long been a safeguard against the fluctuating exchange rates.Fern\u00e1ndez's supporters say the protests are the result of a far-right conspiracy, a charge denied by Torres's fellow Facebook administrator, Marcelo Mor\u00e1n. Although there are a large number of similar anonymously-run pages, Torres and Mor\u00e1n stand out because they have decided to show their faces.\"We do not represent any political party,\" he said. \"On the contrary, we are just as worried about the opposition politicians.\"Lanata admits his programme, which combines hard-hitting reports on corruption with comedy sketches featuring mocking Fern\u00e1ndez and Venezuelan president Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, has been a catalyst for dissent. \"In my first programme I said I hoped we could learn to lose our fear, and that seems to have happened: people are now willing to speak out against this government.\"But to the president's supporters Lanata represents the kind of corporate media whose power President Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has vowed to rein in.\"There is a sector that historically and since the beginning of this government has opposed projects of social inclusion, justice and distribution,\" said the cabinet chief, Juan Manuel Abal Medina after a nationwide rally against constitutional reform in September.\"Those sectors in the past resorted to coup d'\u00e9tats, today they resort to the big media. They are privileged classes who seek to keep their privileges.\"Lanata's show is broadcast on Channel 13, part of the country's largest media conglomerate, which also publishes Argentina's largest newspaper, Clar\u00edn. The group is widely perceived to be the target of a new media law which comes into effect on 7 December, forcing it to sell off its non-print holdings including the largest cable and internet operator in Argentina \u2013 and its main income earner, and possibly the Channel 13.The slogan \"Clar\u00edn Lies\" is printed on banners hanging from government buildings and was emblazoned on the T-shirt of during last year's election campaign.At Clar\u00edn itself the atmosphere is tense. \"We don't know exactly what will happen,\" says managing editor Ricardo Kirschbaum. \"There are rumours the government plans to take over Cablevision that day, which undoubtedly would affect us at the newspaper.\"", "tags": ["Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner reforms spark Argentina protests"},{"date": "2012-12-16T18:10:31Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina faces the prospect of eviction from the world economic community after its apparent failure to respond to a three-month deadline set by the International Monetary Fund to produce accurate inflation and growth statistics.Ejection from the IMF could lead to a variety of economic and political penalties, including exclusion from the G20 of industrial nations. IMF rules state that member states \"must not co-operate with a non-member in practices that would be contrary to \u2026 the purposes of the Fund\".Some experts believe the IMF's managing director, Christine Lagarde, has lost patience with President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner's government. A spokesman for the IMF has said that a report will be submitted to its board on Monday which will decide the course of action.Official inflation statistics in Argentina show prices rising at around 10% but independent assessments have prices rising at 25% and more. The problem that inflation is running higher than official figures is acknowledged by Gabriela Cerruti, an MP from the governing party.Cerruti said: \"I think the real problem is if you have unemployment, or you're losing your home, not the statistics themselves. People always argue over statistics. Prices may be rising up to 20% a year, but people's pay is also going up by 20%.\"Criticism of Argentina dates back to 2007, when the inflation rate first began to rise sharply into double-figures. The trade ministry responded at the time by replacing the director of consumer pricing at the government statistics agency, Graciela Bevacqua.As well as losing her job, Bevacqua faced prosecution on a range of charges, from damaging the Argentine economy to embezzlement and receiving bribes. None of the criminal charges have been upheld in court, although she has been forced to pay fines for publishing her own unofficial inflation rate, which like most others is now about 150% higher than the government's published figure of around 10% per year.Rising prices have been a major spur to recent mass protests against Kirchner's government in the capital Buenos Aires.But Cerruti echoes the Argentine president's argument that the country must not give in to what they see as international blackmail, and the view, widely held in Argentina, that the IMF was itself the cause of many of the problems that led to the country's major default and crisis in 2001.\"All these big world organisations are trying to say what we have to do with our economy. They are saying we have no transparency just because we don't do what the big world organisations want us to do. We are doing very well, so maybe it's time for other countries to see what's going on here,\" Cerruti said.Argentina has recorded nearly 8% growth since 2003 although critics say that the figures are suspect. Growth has now stalled, and attempts to conceal real inflation figures and suppress wage demands, they argue, have got the government into an ever-worsening mess.Ed Butler presents the BBC Assignment programme Argentina's Numbers Game on World Service Radio", "tags": ["Argentina", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "G20", "Inflation", "Americas", "Economics", "Business", "World news", "Global development", "Governance"], "title": "Argentina faces IMF penalties over failure to meet inflation deadline"},{"date": "2012-12-21T17:49:30Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has presented a formal note of protest to the UK ambassador over the naming of a large area of Antarctica as Queen Elizabeth Land.The note handed over by the foreign ministry to John Freeman in Buenos Aires criticised the UK's \"anachronistic imperialist ambitions that hark back to ancient practices\".The newly named area has long been claimed by Argentina as its own, along with other contested areas in the south Atlantic including the Falkland Islands, which Argentina claims as Las Malvinas.The note expressed Argentina's \"firmest rejection of the recently announced pretension of the government of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland of naming an area of the Argentine Antarctic sector\".The ministry accused London of infringing the spirit of the Antarctic treaty, signed in 1959 in Washington DC by 50 nations including Britain and Argentina to preserve the Antarctic from territorial disputes by guaranteeing freedom of scientific investigation and banning military activity on the continent.Two days ago Argentina's senate unanimously rejected the territory's new name.Other British-controlled territories over which Argentina claims sovereignty in the south Atlantic include the South Georgias and Sandwich islands. The island of King George is named 25 de Mayo on Argentinian maps, referring to the date of the revolution against Spain in 1810.The practice of naming places by different names that correspond to the individual histories of signatory nations of the Antarctic treaty is common. A diplomatic source said: \"The new placename could affect the already strained feelings between Britain and Argentina but it does not vulnerate the treaty.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Antarctica", "Americas", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "The Queen", "Monarchy", "UK news"], "title": "Argentina complains to UK over Queen Elizabeth Land 'imperialism'"},{"date": "2012-10-22T18:03:51Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Crew members on the Argentinian naval ship ARA Libertad, which has been impounded in the port of Tema in Ghana, have been ordered to fly home as the diplomatic crisis over the vessel's future looks set to intensify.The 281 crew members \u2013 from Brazil, Paraguay, Peru, South Africa, Suriname, Venezuela, Uruguay and Chile, as well as Argentina \u2013 will return to Buenos Aires on a chartered Air France flight on Wednesday, while the most senior officers and a skeleton crew will remain on board.Meanwhile, the Argentinian and Ghanaian governments are holding talks to attempt to circumvent a court ruling that gives a US-based vulture fund, NML Capital, the right to sell the 50-year-old frigate unless Argentina settles a $370m (\u00a3231m) debt.Argentina has also held talks with the United Nations secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, over the conduct of the west African country.\"Meetings between these south American delegations and [the Ghanaian] government are continuing as we speak,\" said a source. \"We are not talking about interfering with the ruling of the court, but there may be another solution. We will continue talking to the Argentinians and others until we resolve this matter.\"The talks come three weeks after the Libertad, a three-masted training vessel, was detained on arrival in Ghana by order of the country's high court. Although the ship is forbidden to leave Tema, crew members have been free to leave the vessel, making frequent trips to the nearby capital, Accra.A delegation from Argentina's embassy in Nigeria was understood to be holding talks with officials from the Ghanaian ministry of foreign affairs and attorney general's office. Officials from Chile, which has 15 naval officers on board the Libertad, confirmed that its naval attach\u00e9 in London, Ronald McIntyre, was also holding talks with Ghana in an attempt to secure the ship's release.\"The naval officers have been evacuated but the vessel is still in the port,\" said Kumi Adjei-Sam, a spokesman for the Ghana ports and harbour authority. \"It is causing us a lot of disruption and occupying one of our very busy berths. We need the space back \u2013 the order to detain the vessel came from the military and unless we receive a court order to release it soon, we will have to take the matter up with the military authorities.\"The order to evacuate the vessel is the latest in a series of defiant moves by the Argentinian government, which has said it refuses to honour judgments in favour of NML Capital.NML, which is backed by the US billionaire Paul Singer and has a reputation for buying up sovereign debt, is suing Argentina for failing to pay out on bonds it bought from the heavily indebted Argentinian government in 2000, one year before the country's $100bn sovereign default saw most of its debt restructured.NML says it will not release the Libertad unless Argentina pays at least $20m of the $370m it is owed. Earlier this month Ghana's high court backed the fund's bid to detain the vessel, ruling that the legal immunity usually enjoyed by warships had been waived by Argentina when it entered into the bond swaps. NML has obtained more than $1.6bn worth of judgments against the country in courts in the US and England, and has made numerous efforts to seize Argentinian assets in an attempt to obtain payment.But Argentina has repeatedly stated its refusal to pay NML, describing the legal bid as a \"hoax staged by unscrupulous financiers\".\"All the expenses and damages resulting from the illegal detention of the frigate Libertad will form part of the demand Argentina will present before international organisations,\" said the Argentinian foreign ministry.Last week Argentina removed the navy chief, Carlos Alberto Paz, over the incident, and suspended two other senior naval officials, saying it was launching an inquiry into why the Libertad was allowed to stop in Ghana given the likelihood that NML would bring court proceedings in the country.", "tags": ["Ghana", "Argentina", "Vulture funds", "Americas", "World news", "Africa", "Business"], "title": "Argentina orders crew to quit Libertad ship held in Ghana"},{"date": "2013-03-14T17:04:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The reasons usually cited for visiting Buenos Aires are decidedly unholy: great food, fantastic wines and a sexy atmosphere. From the street art around football mecca La Boca to the cobble-stoned, increasingly gentrified streets of San Telmo and the funky shops and buzzing bars of Palermo Viejo, there is so much to excite the senses that the lack of ancient, world-class sights on a par with those of Pope Francis's new home barely registers among visitors.There are parrillas (grills) on almost every corner \u2013 try Don Julio in Palermo, Soho (Guatemala 4691 and Gurruchaga) for a top-quality traditional experience, with excellent service from waiters who know their wine \u2013 as well as their beef. But it's not all big hunks of meat. High-end, avant garde restaurants offering new-wave Argentine cuisine (Nueva Cocina Argentina) are popping up all over the city. Among them is ultra smart Tarquino in Recoleta headed up by renowned chef, Dante Liporace, whose CV includes stints at El Bulli (Rodr\u00edguez Pe\u00f1a 1967, tarquinorestaurante.com.ar).For religious visitors to Buenos Aires, the main attraction lies not in the capital itself but 70km west. The town of Lujan, which was founded in 1756 on the site of a shrine containing a tiny ceramic figure of the Virgin Mary, is one of the major religious centres in Latin America. Its epic basilica erected in honour of the Virgin of Lujan in 1887 attracts around eight million visitors a year. For a sense of the religious fervour in this small town go at the weekend when seven or eight masses are held a day, or during a pilgrimage when you'll have to jostle for space with those who've come to honour the Virgin of Lujan (on the last Sunday of September up to a million gauchos descend on the town; and on the first Sunday of October young people walk here from Buenos Aires).Whether you're religious or not, one must-see is Recoleta cemetery, resting place for almost every major Argentine hero and villain, including Evita, several presidents and heavyweight boxer Luis \u00c1ngel Firpo.The days of living like a king for a few pesos are long gone. Prices have shot up in recent years (in the past week alone, it was announced that taxi fares would soon be jumping 20%') so check out our pick of where to stay on a relative budget, how to keep your costs down and where to enjoy great food on a day trip from the city.Mendoza is a must-visit for anyone, whether you're a wine lover or not. The city itself is lovely \u2013 leafy and refined with gobsmackingly good restaurants and bars on almost every street. Outside the city, vineyards stretch for miles to the foothills of the Andes, which form a constant and magnificent backdrop to the vineyards. Many of the wine makers have built architecturally stunning buildings housing high-end restaurants in the middle of rows of vines... (check out O.Fournier and Salentein). There's a wide choice of operators offering organised tours of the vineyards; if you're doing it independently, it's advisable to book in advance as many bodegas only open for pre-arranged visits.You could easily spend a few days here working your way through the area's fantastic Malbecs but there are other activities on offer in the wildly beautiful landscape, from hiking (not many have the experience to tackle the daunting Mount Aconcagua but you can walk in its national park), and rafting to cycling and, in winter, skiing.One of the natural wonders of the world, the Iguazu falls are worth more than just a day trip. They straddle the Argentine/Brazilian border, but you can get closer to the seething white water on the Argentinian side, where walkways take you right over the Garganta de Diablo \"Devil's Throat\", and you can also explore the forest. Once you've marvelled at the sight of 275 falls gushing over a 2.7km long precipe, spend a few days in the province of Misiones, exploring the remains of the Atlantic rainforest.The immense wilderness of Patagonia offers incredible trekking in its Los Glaciares National Park, most famously on the Perito Moreno Glacier, reached from the bustling tourist hub of El Calafate. Then there is the village of El Chalt\u00e9n, gateway to the Fitz Roy mountain range, whale watching at Peninsula Valdes, and the Welsh settlers' village at Gaiman \u2013 plus miles of untracked steppe doted with estancias. The best time to visit is Dec-March, as during the winter months of May-Oct the weather gets bitterly cold, places close and transport is less frequent.The easiest route from Buenos Aires is by plane to El Calafate (aerolineas.com.ar), or several bus companies travel along lonely Ruta 40 \u2013 Argentina's answer to Route 66, made famous by Ernesto 'Che' Guevara on his motorcyle tour. You can also reach the Chilean side of Patagonia from El Calafate by road to Torres Del Paine.The relatively unexplored yet spectacular north-west of Argentina is well worth a detour from the well-trodden route of wine country, waterfalls and glaciers. The capital Salta is a great base for a few days, mixing traditional gaucho and indigenous culture with sophisticated modern Argentina in the form of elegant boutique hotels and swish restaurants.Head north of the city and you are soon into rugged mountainous scenery. The Quebrada de Humahuaca, a long and dramatic canyon of multi-hued and towering rock formations, makes for a memorable road trip ending at the tiny village of Iruya, where the road peters out and footpaths provide the only access into the mountains. For a sense of the scenery check out the 2007 'Domino' Guinness advert which was filmed in the village.South of Salta lies the wine region of Cafayate, much less well known than Mendoza but producing some of the country's finest wines.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Pope Francis", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Buenos Aires holidays"], "title": "A quick guide to Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-14T17:04:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The reasons usually cited for visiting Buenos Aires are decidedly unholy: great food, fantastic wines and a sexy atmosphere. From the street art around football mecca La Boca to the cobble-stoned, increasingly gentrified streets of San Telmo and the funky shops and buzzing bars of Palermo Viejo, there is so much to excite the senses that the lack of ancient, world-class sights on a par with those of Pope Francis's new home barely registers among visitors.There are parrillas (grills) on almost every corner \u2013 try Don Julio in Palermo, Soho (Guatemala 4691 and Gurruchaga) for a top-quality traditional experience, with excellent service from waiters who know their wine \u2013 as well as their beef. But it's not all big hunks of meat. High-end, avant garde restaurants offering new-wave Argentine cuisine (Nueva Cocina Argentina) are popping up all over the city. Among them is ultra smart Tarquino in Recoleta headed up by renowned chef, Dante Liporace, whose CV includes stints at El Bulli (Rodr\u00edguez Pe\u00f1a 1967, tarquinorestaurante.com.ar).For religious visitors to Buenos Aires, the main attraction lies not in the capital itself but 70km west. The town of Lujan, which was founded in 1756 on the site of a shrine containing a tiny ceramic figure of the Virgin Mary, is one of the major religious centres in Latin America. Its epic basilica erected in honour of the Virgin of Lujan in 1887 attracts around eight million visitors a year. For a sense of the religious fervour in this small town go at the weekend when seven or eight masses are held a day, or during a pilgrimage when you'll have to jostle for space with those who've come to honour the Virgin of Lujan (on the last Sunday of September up to a million gauchos descend on the town; and on the first Sunday of October young people walk here from Buenos Aires).Whether you're religious or not, one must-see is Recoleta cemetery, resting place for almost every major Argentine hero and villain, including Evita, several presidents and heavyweight boxer Luis \u00c1ngel Firpo.The days of living like a king for a few pesos are long gone. Prices have shot up in recent years (in the past week alone, it was announced that taxi fares would soon be jumping 20%') so check out our pick of where to stay on a relative budget, how to keep your costs down and where to enjoy great food on a day trip from the city.Mendoza is a must-visit for anyone, whether you're a wine lover or not. The city itself is lovely \u2013 leafy and refined with gobsmackingly good restaurants and bars on almost every street. Outside the city, vineyards stretch for miles to the foothills of the Andes, which form a constant and magnificent backdrop to the vineyards. Many of the wine makers have built architecturally stunning buildings housing high-end restaurants in the middle of rows of vines... (check out O.Fournier and Salentein). There's a wide choice of operators offering organised tours of the vineyards; if you're doing it independently, it's advisable to book in advance as many bodegas only open for pre-arranged visits.You could easily spend a few days here working your way through the area's fantastic Malbecs but there are other activities on offer in the wildly beautiful landscape, from hiking (not many have the experience to tackle the daunting Mount Aconcagua but you can walk in its national park), and rafting to cycling and, in winter, skiing.One of the natural wonders of the world, the Iguazu falls are worth more than just a day trip. They straddle the Argentine/Brazilian border, but you can get closer to the seething white water on the Argentinian side, where walkways take you right over the Garganta de Diablo \"Devil's Throat\", and you can also explore the forest. Once you've marvelled at the sight of 275 falls gushing over a 2.7km long precipe, spend a few days in the province of Misiones, exploring the remains of the Atlantic rainforest.The immense wilderness of Patagonia offers incredible trekking in its Los Glaciares National Park, most famously on the Perito Moreno Glacier, reached from the bustling tourist hub of El Calafate. Then there is the village of El Chalt\u00e9n, gateway to the Fitz Roy mountain range, whale watching at Peninsula Valdes, and the Welsh settlers' village at Gaiman \u2013 plus miles of untracked steppe doted with estancias. The best time to visit is Dec-March, as during the winter months of May-Oct the weather gets bitterly cold, places close and transport is less frequent.The easiest route from Buenos Aires is by plane to El Calafate (aerolineas.com.ar), or several bus companies travel along lonely Ruta 40 \u2013 Argentina's answer to Route 66, made famous by Ernesto 'Che' Guevara on his motorcyle tour. You can also reach the Chilean side of Patagonia from El Calafate by road to Torres Del Paine.The relatively unexplored yet spectacular north-west of Argentina is well worth a detour from the well-trodden route of wine country, waterfalls and glaciers. The capital Salta is a great base for a few days, mixing traditional gaucho and indigenous culture with sophisticated modern Argentina in the form of elegant boutique hotels and swish restaurants.Head north of the city and you are soon into rugged mountainous scenery. The Quebrada de Humahuaca, a long and dramatic canyon of multi-hued and towering rock formations, makes for a memorable road trip ending at the tiny village of Iruya, where the road peters out and footpaths provide the only access into the mountains. For a sense of the scenery check out the 2007 'Domino' Guinness advert which was filmed in the village.South of Salta lies the wine region of Cafayate, much less well known than Mendoza but producing some of the country's finest wines.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Pope Francis", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Buenos Aires holidays"], "title": "A quick guide to Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-28T10:28:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "\"The pope and I once had a fight,\" says Nelso, miming fisticuffs with his hands. \"But that was 30 years ago. Back when we were young and I had hair!\" He slaps his balding head and laughs. \u00a0Nelso Lenarduzzi, charismatic and white-whiskered, is the director of the Jesuit Museum in Argentina's central province of C\u00f3rdoba. We're in the middle of a tour of his exhibition \u2013 which includes Jesuit tapestries and relics from long-lost local Indian religions \u2013 when he suddenly lets slip on his heated clash with the man now known as Pope Francis.In the early 1980s, Jorge Bergoglio, then a relatively young priest acting on behalf of his superiors, visited the museum and announced he wanted to take 30 items back to a chapel in Buenos Aires province. Nelso was horrified as the priest listed some of the museum's most-treasured pieces, including a valuable altar.\"We didn't actually have a fist fight,\" he admits, laughing again at the idea, but strong words were exchanged and Bergoglio would not budge. \"Now, at least, I can say I've seen him at his toughest and I know he's no pushover.\"The Vatican's recent selection has shone a spotlight on Argentina. Yet although Bergoglio's Argentinian life has been largely dissected \u2013 from his football allegiances to his politics \u2013 a lot less has been made of his Jesuit connection. For those interested in finding out about the country's Jesuit history, C\u00f3rdoba is probably the best place to start. This, after all, is where the order once had a base so powerful it was seen as a serious threat to early Spanish rule.The province of C\u00f3rdoba is famed for its warm, dry climate, and green, fertile sierras. At its heart is Argentina's second city, also called C\u00f3rdoba and nicknamed La Docta (or the learned one) on account of its large student population. Since 2000, the city has also boasted Unesco world heritage status, thanks to its Jesuit block, which includes a stone church, priests' residences and one of the oldest universities in South America (1613).Bergoglio lived within the block for two years in the 1990s and now his bespectacled face gazes back at you all over town: on a celebratory banner outside the church, on a caricaturist's easel on a tourist-filled pedestrian walkway, and even on the pavement as a street trader sets out papal souvenirs in the late summer sun. Back in the late 16th century, the pope's predecessors arrived here from Europe and set about spreading their scholarly branch of the Catholic faith. They were so successful and efficient in their work that the Spaniards ultimately withdrew funding, scared that they were forming a state within a state. So, to keep the funds flowing for their evangelistic work, the Jesuits came up with plan B: the working estancia.Five examples of these estancias still stand, scattered across these central plains. My first stop was Estancia Caroya, surrounded by green fields and orange trees, 44km north of the city. Its design is typical for the era: a colonial-style mansion, built around a courtyard, with arched walkways and its own chapel. The whitewash walls and terracotta roof certainly look attractive against the cloudless blue skies, but aesthetics were not the Jesuits' main motivation. Estancias were working farms, heavily involved in the mule trade, and each plying its own specialist trade, from wine production to making bayonets.Only one to two Jesuits would live onsite, with labour from hundreds of African slaves.\"This is something that was not talked about for years,\" says Claudio Videla, director of the Caroya estancia. \"It was a dark part of history. Slaves were considered sub-human. Even after their sons were freed, the next generation was sent to their deaths when they were put in the front line [in civil and foreign conflict].\"This explains why today's Argentina has hardly any people of African descent, compared with Brazil or Uruguay.Jesuits also worked with local indigenous populations, who received a wage (to prevent an uprising) and completed much of their artisan work. Look up to C\u00f3rdoba's cathedral, for example, and you see angels' faces with Indian features, rather than traditional European cherubs.I made it to three out of the five estancias on the tourist route: Caroya; neighbouring Jes\u00fas Mar\u00eda (where I find Nesto's museum); and finally, 35km south-west of C\u00f3rdoba city, Alta Gracia, which squats at the start of the sierras, amid miles of cornfields.\u00a0Visiting the town of Alta Gracia gave me the chance to drop in on one of Argentina's other famous sons. In the 1940s, the Guevara family moved to the province, hoping the dry air would help cure the asthma of their oldest, Ernesto. The boy, who grew up to be known as Che, is now depicted in a bronze statue on the family home's front porch. Rooms of the small suburban home have been turned into a mini museum, featuring family photos and various memorabilia, including his last-ever diary entry before he was executed in the Bolivia jungle. Back in the early 2000s, this tiny museum might see about 5,000 visitors a year. Then, one day in 2006, two VIP guests popped in \u2013 Fidel Castro and Hugo Chavez. After that much-publicised appearance, annual visitor numbers shot up to 100,000.It's the mix of high-profile visits and Unesco recognition that has given C\u00f3rdoba's tourism a real boost in recent years. Once famed only for lomito (steak) sandwiches and fernet (the bitter Italian spirit drunk here as if it were water), the province is now trying to relaunch itself to appeal to the more sophisticated traveller. The Azul Real (the city's first boutique hotel) scored a coup earlier this year by persuading three hugely talented chefs (and siblings) to move a successful restaurant in their own home into the premises (+54 351 152 275476, casagalan.com.ar; try the spectacular \u00a325 tasting menu).Directly opposite Estancia Jes\u00fas Mar\u00eda, Restaurante El Museo opened in December. Featuring reclaimed wooden furniture and cushions made from Brazilian coffee sacks, it's full of rustic charm. A hotel extension is due to open here next year.But will tourism grow as result of the new pope? According to Nesto, the boost will only become a major deal if Pope Francis ever makes a return visit. (No fighting please, chaps.) Meanwhile, C\u00f3rdoba continues to pick up a range of unlikely fans from across the world.\"We had another British visitor, not long ago,\" Tomas, from the local tourist board, tells me. \"She's an actress. Well, no, not an actress. She's, erm \u2026 Well, her name is Katie Price.\" Yes, Jordan was here in 2011, accompanying her Cordobese boyfriend Leandro Pena (he spoke no English; she spoke no Spanish; Tomas acted as their translator).C\u00f3rdoba: from the Pope to Che Guevara to Katie Price. Hardly the Holy Trinity, but there must be a tourist board slogan in there somewhere.If you don't make it to C\u00f3rdoba, you can also get a taste of Argentina's Jesuit past in the north-eastern, rainforest-dottedMisiones province. The area's four missions have been reduced to ruins by the area's humidity but are still impressive (especially San Ignacio Min\u00ed) and they make a worthy detour from Iguaz\u00fa Falls (200km further north). Day trips can be arranged from Cu\u00f1a Pir\u00fa or Don Enrique lodges (more here).Journey Latin America (0208 747 8315, journeylatinamerica.co.uk) has a seven-day trip to Argentina, including stays in Buenos Aires and C\u00f3rdoba, for \u00a31661pp, including flights, accomodation, transfers, excursions and most meals.A stay at Azur Real Boutique Hotel (azurrealhotel.com, +54 351 424 7133) costs \u00a3145 per night.For more on C\u00f3rdoba, see cordobaturismo.gov.ar.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "South America holidays", "Pope Francis", "Catholicism", "The papacy", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "In Pope Francis's footsteps: a Jesuit tour of Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-14T17:04:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The reasons usually cited for visiting Buenos Aires are decidedly unholy: great food, fantastic wines and a sexy atmosphere. From the street art around football mecca La Boca to the cobble-stoned, increasingly gentrified streets of San Telmo and the funky shops and buzzing bars of Palermo Viejo, there is so much to excite the senses that the lack of ancient, world-class sights on a par with those of Pope Francis's new home barely registers among visitors.There are parrillas (grills) on almost every corner \u2013 try Don Julio in Palermo, Soho (Guatemala 4691 and Gurruchaga) for a top-quality traditional experience, with excellent service from waiters who know their wine \u2013 as well as their beef. But it's not all big hunks of meat. High-end, avant garde restaurants offering new-wave Argentine cuisine (Nueva Cocina Argentina) are popping up all over the city. Among them is ultra smart Tarquino in Recoleta headed up by renowned chef, Dante Liporace, whose CV includes stints at El Bulli (Rodr\u00edguez Pe\u00f1a 1967, tarquinorestaurante.com.ar).For religious visitors to Buenos Aires, the main attraction lies not in the capital itself but 70km west. The town of Lujan, which was founded in 1756 on the site of a shrine containing a tiny ceramic figure of the Virgin Mary, is one of the major religious centres in Latin America. Its epic basilica erected in honour of the Virgin of Lujan in 1887 attracts around eight million visitors a year. For a sense of the religious fervour in this small town go at the weekend when seven or eight masses are held a day, or during a pilgrimage when you'll have to jostle for space with those who've come to honour the Virgin of Lujan (on the last Sunday of September up to a million gauchos descend on the town; and on the first Sunday of October young people walk here from Buenos Aires).Whether you're religious or not, one must-see is Recoleta cemetery, resting place for almost every major Argentine hero and villain, including Evita, several presidents and heavyweight boxer Luis \u00c1ngel Firpo.The days of living like a king for a few pesos are long gone. Prices have shot up in recent years (in the past week alone, it was announced that taxi fares would soon be jumping 20%') so check out our pick of where to stay on a relative budget, how to keep your costs down and where to enjoy great food on a day trip from the city.Mendoza is a must-visit for anyone, whether you're a wine lover or not. The city itself is lovely \u2013 leafy and refined with gobsmackingly good restaurants and bars on almost every street. Outside the city, vineyards stretch for miles to the foothills of the Andes, which form a constant and magnificent backdrop to the vineyards. Many of the wine makers have built architecturally stunning buildings housing high-end restaurants in the middle of rows of vines... (check out O.Fournier and Salentein). There's a wide choice of operators offering organised tours of the vineyards; if you're doing it independently, it's advisable to book in advance as many bodegas only open for pre-arranged visits.You could easily spend a few days here working your way through the area's fantastic Malbecs but there are other activities on offer in the wildly beautiful landscape, from hiking (not many have the experience to tackle the daunting Mount Aconcagua but you can walk in its national park), and rafting to cycling and, in winter, skiing.One of the natural wonders of the world, the Iguazu falls are worth more than just a day trip. They straddle the Argentine/Brazilian border, but you can get closer to the seething white water on the Argentinian side, where walkways take you right over the Garganta de Diablo \"Devil's Throat\", and you can also explore the forest. Once you've marvelled at the sight of 275 falls gushing over a 2.7km long precipe, spend a few days in the province of Misiones, exploring the remains of the Atlantic rainforest.The immense wilderness of Patagonia offers incredible trekking in its Los Glaciares National Park, most famously on the Perito Moreno Glacier, reached from the bustling tourist hub of El Calafate. Then there is the village of El Chalt\u00e9n, gateway to the Fitz Roy mountain range, whale watching at Peninsula Valdes, and the Welsh settlers' village at Gaiman \u2013 plus miles of untracked steppe doted with estancias. The best time to visit is Dec-March, as during the winter months of May-Oct the weather gets bitterly cold, places close and transport is less frequent.The easiest route from Buenos Aires is by plane to El Calafate (aerolineas.com.ar), or several bus companies travel along lonely Ruta 40 \u2013 Argentina's answer to Route 66, made famous by Ernesto 'Che' Guevara on his motorcyle tour. You can also reach the Chilean side of Patagonia from El Calafate by road to Torres Del Paine.The relatively unexplored yet spectacular north-west of Argentina is well worth a detour from the well-trodden route of wine country, waterfalls and glaciers. The capital Salta is a great base for a few days, mixing traditional gaucho and indigenous culture with sophisticated modern Argentina in the form of elegant boutique hotels and swish restaurants.Head north of the city and you are soon into rugged mountainous scenery. The Quebrada de Humahuaca, a long and dramatic canyon of multi-hued and towering rock formations, makes for a memorable road trip ending at the tiny village of Iruya, where the road peters out and footpaths provide the only access into the mountains. For a sense of the scenery check out the 2007 'Domino' Guinness advert which was filmed in the village.South of Salta lies the wine region of Cafayate, much less well known than Mendoza but producing some of the country's finest wines.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Pope Francis", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Buenos Aires holidays"], "title": "A quick guide to Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-28T10:28:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "\"The pope and I once had a fight,\" says Nelso, miming fisticuffs with his hands. \"But that was 30 years ago. Back when we were young and I had hair!\" He slaps his balding head and laughs. \u00a0Nelso Lenarduzzi, charismatic and white-whiskered, is the director of the Jesuit Museum in Argentina's central province of C\u00f3rdoba. We're in the middle of a tour of his exhibition \u2013 which includes Jesuit tapestries and relics from long-lost local Indian religions \u2013 when he suddenly lets slip on his heated clash with the man now known as Pope Francis.In the early 1980s, Jorge Bergoglio, then a relatively young priest acting on behalf of his superiors, visited the museum and announced he wanted to take 30 items back to a chapel in Buenos Aires province. Nelso was horrified as the priest listed some of the museum's most-treasured pieces, including a valuable altar.\"We didn't actually have a fist fight,\" he admits, laughing again at the idea, but strong words were exchanged and Bergoglio would not budge. \"Now, at least, I can say I've seen him at his toughest and I know he's no pushover.\"The Vatican's recent selection has shone a spotlight on Argentina. Yet although Bergoglio's Argentinian life has been largely dissected \u2013 from his football allegiances to his politics \u2013 a lot less has been made of his Jesuit connection. For those interested in finding out about the country's Jesuit history, C\u00f3rdoba is probably the best place to start. This, after all, is where the order once had a base so powerful it was seen as a serious threat to early Spanish rule.The province of C\u00f3rdoba is famed for its warm, dry climate, and green, fertile sierras. At its heart is Argentina's second city, also called C\u00f3rdoba and nicknamed La Docta (or the learned one) on account of its large student population. Since 2000, the city has also boasted Unesco world heritage status, thanks to its Jesuit block, which includes a stone church, priests' residences and one of the oldest universities in South America (1613).Bergoglio lived within the block for two years in the 1990s and now his bespectacled face gazes back at you all over town: on a celebratory banner outside the church, on a caricaturist's easel on a tourist-filled pedestrian walkway, and even on the pavement as a street trader sets out papal souvenirs in the late summer sun. Back in the late 16th century, the pope's predecessors arrived here from Europe and set about spreading their scholarly branch of the Catholic faith. They were so successful and efficient in their work that the Spaniards ultimately withdrew funding, scared that they were forming a state within a state. So, to keep the funds flowing for their evangelistic work, the Jesuits came up with plan B: the working estancia.Five examples of these estancias still stand, scattered across these central plains. My first stop was Estancia Caroya, surrounded by green fields and orange trees, 44km north of the city. Its design is typical for the era: a colonial-style mansion, built around a courtyard, with arched walkways and its own chapel. The whitewash walls and terracotta roof certainly look attractive against the cloudless blue skies, but aesthetics were not the Jesuits' main motivation. Estancias were working farms, heavily involved in the mule trade, and each plying its own specialist trade, from wine production to making bayonets.Only one to two Jesuits would live onsite, with labour from hundreds of African slaves.\"This is something that was not talked about for years,\" says Claudio Videla, director of the Caroya estancia. \"It was a dark part of history. Slaves were considered sub-human. Even after their sons were freed, the next generation was sent to their deaths when they were put in the front line [in civil and foreign conflict].\"This explains why today's Argentina has hardly any people of African descent, compared with Brazil or Uruguay.Jesuits also worked with local indigenous populations, who received a wage (to prevent an uprising) and completed much of their artisan work. Look up to C\u00f3rdoba's cathedral, for example, and you see angels' faces with Indian features, rather than traditional European cherubs.I made it to three out of the five estancias on the tourist route: Caroya; neighbouring Jes\u00fas Mar\u00eda (where I find Nesto's museum); and finally, 35km south-west of C\u00f3rdoba city, Alta Gracia, which squats at the start of the sierras, amid miles of cornfields.\u00a0Visiting the town of Alta Gracia gave me the chance to drop in on one of Argentina's other famous sons. In the 1940s, the Guevara family moved to the province, hoping the dry air would help cure the asthma of their oldest, Ernesto. The boy, who grew up to be known as Che, is now depicted in a bronze statue on the family home's front porch. Rooms of the small suburban home have been turned into a mini museum, featuring family photos and various memorabilia, including his last-ever diary entry before he was executed in the Bolivia jungle. Back in the early 2000s, this tiny museum might see about 5,000 visitors a year. Then, one day in 2006, two VIP guests popped in \u2013 Fidel Castro and Hugo Chavez. After that much-publicised appearance, annual visitor numbers shot up to 100,000.It's the mix of high-profile visits and Unesco recognition that has given C\u00f3rdoba's tourism a real boost in recent years. Once famed only for lomito (steak) sandwiches and fernet (the bitter Italian spirit drunk here as if it were water), the province is now trying to relaunch itself to appeal to the more sophisticated traveller. The Azul Real (the city's first boutique hotel) scored a coup earlier this year by persuading three hugely talented chefs (and siblings) to move a successful restaurant in their own home into the premises (+54 351 152 275476, casagalan.com.ar; try the spectacular \u00a325 tasting menu).Directly opposite Estancia Jes\u00fas Mar\u00eda, Restaurante El Museo opened in December. Featuring reclaimed wooden furniture and cushions made from Brazilian coffee sacks, it's full of rustic charm. A hotel extension is due to open here next year.But will tourism grow as result of the new pope? According to Nesto, the boost will only become a major deal if Pope Francis ever makes a return visit. (No fighting please, chaps.) Meanwhile, C\u00f3rdoba continues to pick up a range of unlikely fans from across the world.\"We had another British visitor, not long ago,\" Tomas, from the local tourist board, tells me. \"She's an actress. Well, no, not an actress. She's, erm \u2026 Well, her name is Katie Price.\" Yes, Jordan was here in 2011, accompanying her Cordobese boyfriend Leandro Pena (he spoke no English; she spoke no Spanish; Tomas acted as their translator).C\u00f3rdoba: from the Pope to Che Guevara to Katie Price. Hardly the Holy Trinity, but there must be a tourist board slogan in there somewhere.If you don't make it to C\u00f3rdoba, you can also get a taste of Argentina's Jesuit past in the north-eastern, rainforest-dottedMisiones province. The area's four missions have been reduced to ruins by the area's humidity but are still impressive (especially San Ignacio Min\u00ed) and they make a worthy detour from Iguaz\u00fa Falls (200km further north). Day trips can be arranged from Cu\u00f1a Pir\u00fa or Don Enrique lodges (more here).Journey Latin America (0208 747 8315, journeylatinamerica.co.uk) has a seven-day trip to Argentina, including stays in Buenos Aires and C\u00f3rdoba, for \u00a31661pp, including flights, accomodation, transfers, excursions and most meals.A stay at Azur Real Boutique Hotel (azurrealhotel.com, +54 351 424 7133) costs \u00a3145 per night.For more on C\u00f3rdoba, see cordobaturismo.gov.ar.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "South America holidays", "Pope Francis", "Catholicism", "The papacy", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "In Pope Francis's footsteps: a Jesuit tour of Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-12T12:08:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The chief executive's office at the MacBody textile factory looks normal enough. It has the big desk and faux-leather chair, a large computer screen and prints of successful advertising campaigns across the wall. The only thing that's missing is the chief executive himself. He left \u2026 five years ago.Ram\u00f3n D\u00edaz, a former salesman for the Argentinian clothing firm, now occupies his seat. The former salesman is there by the popular vote of his fellow workers. MacBody makes business decisions in a similar way, by a show of hands, he adds. \"We hold general meetings every Friday. If we're all at the table for lunch, then we do it there rather than lose time later in the day.\"MacBody is one of more than 300 so-called \"recovered factories\" operating in Argentina. Emerging during a major economic decline in the late 1990s, these unorthodox businesses began proliferating after a sovereign debt default in December 2001 that pushed many companies to the wall and left millions of workers jobless.In the case of MacBody, the owners faced fraud charges and \"simply disappeared\". That's how D\u00edaz tells it anyway. Rather than lose their jobs, he and his fellow employees decided to continue working. So the next day, they entered the $20m clothing factory as usual \u2013 only this time as their own bosses.\"At the beginning it was very difficult. We lost many of our clients. We didn't have a bank account. We couldn't access credit. You could say we were in intensive care for a while,\" he says. MacBody fortunately avoided any violent confrontations with police, a common feature of the early recovery movement as bankrupt owners sought to regain their assets.An emergency extension of credit from the government and two timely short-term loans from La Base, a grant-making non-profit, saw the company through its early months. Under a municipal expropriation law passed in the wake of the 2001 crisis, they also gained provisional legal status for their new enterprise.Emerging out of a decade of rabid privatisation, the leaders of Argentina's recovered factory movement advocate a different way of doing business. Among the most important principles are equal employee ownership and horizontal management. At MacBody, for example, executive positions are rotated every two years and everyone receives the same salary at the end of the month.\"When you're used to wearing blinkers for 20 years, then it's not always easy to start making decisions for yourself\", admits D\u00edaz. On the plus side, he says his job is now more flexible and varied. \"We all exchange tasks, so one day I can be working on the cutting table, another I might be going to the bank and another I could be on the road selling our products.\"Eduardo Mur\u00faa echoes the same sentiment. A spokesperson for metallurgy firm IMPA, Argentina's very first recovered factory, says worker attitudes have gone through a \"360 degree turnaround\" since the firm's expropriation. Accidents among the 47-member workforce have dropped, as have machine breakages. \"Before working efficiently and increasing the profitability of the company didn't matter to us. Now it does,\" he states.\"We work without anyone pushing us from behind. These days, we do the work, but we do it at our pace ... If we are exploited, it's because we have decided to exploit ourselves, not someone else. That's the big difference \u2026 If you ask anyone here if they would return to work with a boss, no-one would\", he says.Not all is rosy. The Mayor of Buenos Aires recently vetoed the expropriation law for his jurisdiction, throwing the capital city's 30 or so recovered factories back into legal limbo. In the case of IMPA, its ownership status is now subject to a case in the supreme court.Money worries have not gone away either. IMPA, which has contracts with cable television company Direct TV among others, is exceptional in paying wages over the market rate. Back at MacBody, D\u00edaz's salary has dropped by one third. Lack of business administrative expertise and investment capital represent other major shortcomings.Yet if they can survive the \"intensive care\" period, then most tend to stay in business, notes Julian Massaldi of La Base: \"The difficulties are huge, and there are flaws in the way that they manage themselves, but over the long-run they are improving rather than decaying.\"The longevity of the recovered factory model is partly thanks to government support. The current administration, led by left-leaning president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, operates a public works programme called Plan Argentina Trabaja (Argentina Works Plan). By issuing co-operatives with public contracts rather than issuing unemployment handouts, the government hopes to galvanise growth while also reducing its social benefit burden.In principle, it's a good idea. D\u00edaz certainly thinks so. But then he would. Last year, MacBody was given a contract to produce all the security bibs for the police. La Base's Massaldi is less certain. By depending on the state, recovered factories are in danger of reinforcing a popular prejudice of being unsustainable, uncompetitive and \u2013 worst of all \u2013 \"needing political contacts to survive\". The walls of the MacBody factory are covered with party political campaign literature, which suggests he might have a point.IMPA's Mur\u00faa is adamant that the recovered factory movement retains its autonomy and independence. A trade union activist by background, he sees the movement as a tool for political change and a step towards a \"post-capitalist system\", not just an alternative in management. \"Sure, we got rid of the boss that we knew, the one in the factory. But there are still bosses \u2013 the bosses behind the global system of production, namely imperialism, and the large monopolistic companies that set the rules\", he argues.Arguments over the political role of the movement have led to endless internecine battles between recovered factories, which are now split into multiple federations and other representative bodies.Over at Bauen Hotel, a favourite hangout of Carlos Menem, the former president and driving force of the 1990s privatisation boom, the bickering is being put aside for a moment. Preparations are under way for the 10th anniversary of the expropriation of the hotel, located in the very centre of Buenos Aires. \"We are going to cut off three rows of traffic and have a street party,\" says Guillermo Pfl\u00fcger, one of the \"first 30\" workers responsible for Bauen's recovery.Pfl\u00fcger, who doubles as the hotel's pianist and sound manager, recently commissioned a children's book on Bauen's story called Dwarves of Dignity, which he's trying to turn into an animated feature film. Stills from the book line his office wall. The largest depicts the king fleeing with his courtiers, while the cheering dwarves look on. \"While the worst is unfolding\", the caption reads, \"the battle was liberating.\"This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "New hope for Argentina in the recovered factory movement"},{"date": "2013-03-14T17:04:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The reasons usually cited for visiting Buenos Aires are decidedly unholy: great food, fantastic wines and a sexy atmosphere. From the street art around football mecca La Boca to the cobble-stoned, increasingly gentrified streets of San Telmo and the funky shops and buzzing bars of Palermo Viejo, there is so much to excite the senses that the lack of ancient, world-class sights on a par with those of Pope Francis's new home barely registers among visitors.There are parrillas (grills) on almost every corner \u2013 try Don Julio in Palermo, Soho (Guatemala 4691 and Gurruchaga) for a top-quality traditional experience, with excellent service from waiters who know their wine \u2013 as well as their beef. But it's not all big hunks of meat. High-end, avant garde restaurants offering new-wave Argentine cuisine (Nueva Cocina Argentina) are popping up all over the city. Among them is ultra smart Tarquino in Recoleta headed up by renowned chef, Dante Liporace, whose CV includes stints at El Bulli (Rodr\u00edguez Pe\u00f1a 1967, tarquinorestaurante.com.ar).For religious visitors to Buenos Aires, the main attraction lies not in the capital itself but 70km west. The town of Lujan, which was founded in 1756 on the site of a shrine containing a tiny ceramic figure of the Virgin Mary, is one of the major religious centres in Latin America. Its epic basilica erected in honour of the Virgin of Lujan in 1887 attracts around eight million visitors a year. For a sense of the religious fervour in this small town go at the weekend when seven or eight masses are held a day, or during a pilgrimage when you'll have to jostle for space with those who've come to honour the Virgin of Lujan (on the last Sunday of September up to a million gauchos descend on the town; and on the first Sunday of October young people walk here from Buenos Aires).Whether you're religious or not, one must-see is Recoleta cemetery, resting place for almost every major Argentine hero and villain, including Evita, several presidents and heavyweight boxer Luis \u00c1ngel Firpo.The days of living like a king for a few pesos are long gone. Prices have shot up in recent years (in the past week alone, it was announced that taxi fares would soon be jumping 20%') so check out our pick of where to stay on a relative budget, how to keep your costs down and where to enjoy great food on a day trip from the city.Mendoza is a must-visit for anyone, whether you're a wine lover or not. The city itself is lovely \u2013 leafy and refined with gobsmackingly good restaurants and bars on almost every street. Outside the city, vineyards stretch for miles to the foothills of the Andes, which form a constant and magnificent backdrop to the vineyards. Many of the wine makers have built architecturally stunning buildings housing high-end restaurants in the middle of rows of vines... (check out O.Fournier and Salentein). There's a wide choice of operators offering organised tours of the vineyards; if you're doing it independently, it's advisable to book in advance as many bodegas only open for pre-arranged visits.You could easily spend a few days here working your way through the area's fantastic Malbecs but there are other activities on offer in the wildly beautiful landscape, from hiking (not many have the experience to tackle the daunting Mount Aconcagua but you can walk in its national park), and rafting to cycling and, in winter, skiing.One of the natural wonders of the world, the Iguazu falls are worth more than just a day trip. They straddle the Argentine/Brazilian border, but you can get closer to the seething white water on the Argentinian side, where walkways take you right over the Garganta de Diablo \"Devil's Throat\", and you can also explore the forest. Once you've marvelled at the sight of 275 falls gushing over a 2.7km long precipe, spend a few days in the province of Misiones, exploring the remains of the Atlantic rainforest.The immense wilderness of Patagonia offers incredible trekking in its Los Glaciares National Park, most famously on the Perito Moreno Glacier, reached from the bustling tourist hub of El Calafate. Then there is the village of El Chalt\u00e9n, gateway to the Fitz Roy mountain range, whale watching at Peninsula Valdes, and the Welsh settlers' village at Gaiman \u2013 plus miles of untracked steppe doted with estancias. The best time to visit is Dec-March, as during the winter months of May-Oct the weather gets bitterly cold, places close and transport is less frequent.The easiest route from Buenos Aires is by plane to El Calafate (aerolineas.com.ar), or several bus companies travel along lonely Ruta 40 \u2013 Argentina's answer to Route 66, made famous by Ernesto 'Che' Guevara on his motorcyle tour. You can also reach the Chilean side of Patagonia from El Calafate by road to Torres Del Paine.The relatively unexplored yet spectacular north-west of Argentina is well worth a detour from the well-trodden route of wine country, waterfalls and glaciers. The capital Salta is a great base for a few days, mixing traditional gaucho and indigenous culture with sophisticated modern Argentina in the form of elegant boutique hotels and swish restaurants.Head north of the city and you are soon into rugged mountainous scenery. The Quebrada de Humahuaca, a long and dramatic canyon of multi-hued and towering rock formations, makes for a memorable road trip ending at the tiny village of Iruya, where the road peters out and footpaths provide the only access into the mountains. For a sense of the scenery check out the 2007 'Domino' Guinness advert which was filmed in the village.South of Salta lies the wine region of Cafayate, much less well known than Mendoza but producing some of the country's finest wines.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Pope Francis", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Buenos Aires holidays"], "title": "A quick guide to Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-28T10:28:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "\"The pope and I once had a fight,\" says Nelso, miming fisticuffs with his hands. \"But that was 30 years ago. Back when we were young and I had hair!\" He slaps his balding head and laughs. \u00a0Nelso Lenarduzzi, charismatic and white-whiskered, is the director of the Jesuit Museum in Argentina's central province of C\u00f3rdoba. We're in the middle of a tour of his exhibition \u2013 which includes Jesuit tapestries and relics from long-lost local Indian religions \u2013 when he suddenly lets slip on his heated clash with the man now known as Pope Francis.In the early 1980s, Jorge Bergoglio, then a relatively young priest acting on behalf of his superiors, visited the museum and announced he wanted to take 30 items back to a chapel in Buenos Aires province. Nelso was horrified as the priest listed some of the museum's most-treasured pieces, including a valuable altar.\"We didn't actually have a fist fight,\" he admits, laughing again at the idea, but strong words were exchanged and Bergoglio would not budge. \"Now, at least, I can say I've seen him at his toughest and I know he's no pushover.\"The Vatican's recent selection has shone a spotlight on Argentina. Yet although Bergoglio's Argentinian life has been largely dissected \u2013 from his football allegiances to his politics \u2013 a lot less has been made of his Jesuit connection. For those interested in finding out about the country's Jesuit history, C\u00f3rdoba is probably the best place to start. This, after all, is where the order once had a base so powerful it was seen as a serious threat to early Spanish rule.The province of C\u00f3rdoba is famed for its warm, dry climate, and green, fertile sierras. At its heart is Argentina's second city, also called C\u00f3rdoba and nicknamed La Docta (or the learned one) on account of its large student population. Since 2000, the city has also boasted Unesco world heritage status, thanks to its Jesuit block, which includes a stone church, priests' residences and one of the oldest universities in South America (1613).Bergoglio lived within the block for two years in the 1990s and now his bespectacled face gazes back at you all over town: on a celebratory banner outside the church, on a caricaturist's easel on a tourist-filled pedestrian walkway, and even on the pavement as a street trader sets out papal souvenirs in the late summer sun. Back in the late 16th century, the pope's predecessors arrived here from Europe and set about spreading their scholarly branch of the Catholic faith. They were so successful and efficient in their work that the Spaniards ultimately withdrew funding, scared that they were forming a state within a state. So, to keep the funds flowing for their evangelistic work, the Jesuits came up with plan B: the working estancia.Five examples of these estancias still stand, scattered across these central plains. My first stop was Estancia Caroya, surrounded by green fields and orange trees, 44km north of the city. Its design is typical for the era: a colonial-style mansion, built around a courtyard, with arched walkways and its own chapel. The whitewash walls and terracotta roof certainly look attractive against the cloudless blue skies, but aesthetics were not the Jesuits' main motivation. Estancias were working farms, heavily involved in the mule trade, and each plying its own specialist trade, from wine production to making bayonets.Only one to two Jesuits would live onsite, with labour from hundreds of African slaves.\"This is something that was not talked about for years,\" says Claudio Videla, director of the Caroya estancia. \"It was a dark part of history. Slaves were considered sub-human. Even after their sons were freed, the next generation was sent to their deaths when they were put in the front line [in civil and foreign conflict].\"This explains why today's Argentina has hardly any people of African descent, compared with Brazil or Uruguay.Jesuits also worked with local indigenous populations, who received a wage (to prevent an uprising) and completed much of their artisan work. Look up to C\u00f3rdoba's cathedral, for example, and you see angels' faces with Indian features, rather than traditional European cherubs.I made it to three out of the five estancias on the tourist route: Caroya; neighbouring Jes\u00fas Mar\u00eda (where I find Nesto's museum); and finally, 35km south-west of C\u00f3rdoba city, Alta Gracia, which squats at the start of the sierras, amid miles of cornfields.\u00a0Visiting the town of Alta Gracia gave me the chance to drop in on one of Argentina's other famous sons. In the 1940s, the Guevara family moved to the province, hoping the dry air would help cure the asthma of their oldest, Ernesto. The boy, who grew up to be known as Che, is now depicted in a bronze statue on the family home's front porch. Rooms of the small suburban home have been turned into a mini museum, featuring family photos and various memorabilia, including his last-ever diary entry before he was executed in the Bolivia jungle. Back in the early 2000s, this tiny museum might see about 5,000 visitors a year. Then, one day in 2006, two VIP guests popped in \u2013 Fidel Castro and Hugo Chavez. After that much-publicised appearance, annual visitor numbers shot up to 100,000.It's the mix of high-profile visits and Unesco recognition that has given C\u00f3rdoba's tourism a real boost in recent years. Once famed only for lomito (steak) sandwiches and fernet (the bitter Italian spirit drunk here as if it were water), the province is now trying to relaunch itself to appeal to the more sophisticated traveller. The Azul Real (the city's first boutique hotel) scored a coup earlier this year by persuading three hugely talented chefs (and siblings) to move a successful restaurant in their own home into the premises (+54 351 152 275476, casagalan.com.ar; try the spectacular \u00a325 tasting menu).Directly opposite Estancia Jes\u00fas Mar\u00eda, Restaurante El Museo opened in December. Featuring reclaimed wooden furniture and cushions made from Brazilian coffee sacks, it's full of rustic charm. A hotel extension is due to open here next year.But will tourism grow as result of the new pope? According to Nesto, the boost will only become a major deal if Pope Francis ever makes a return visit. (No fighting please, chaps.) Meanwhile, C\u00f3rdoba continues to pick up a range of unlikely fans from across the world.\"We had another British visitor, not long ago,\" Tomas, from the local tourist board, tells me. \"She's an actress. Well, no, not an actress. She's, erm \u2026 Well, her name is Katie Price.\" Yes, Jordan was here in 2011, accompanying her Cordobese boyfriend Leandro Pena (he spoke no English; she spoke no Spanish; Tomas acted as their translator).C\u00f3rdoba: from the Pope to Che Guevara to Katie Price. Hardly the Holy Trinity, but there must be a tourist board slogan in there somewhere.If you don't make it to C\u00f3rdoba, you can also get a taste of Argentina's Jesuit past in the north-eastern, rainforest-dottedMisiones province. The area's four missions have been reduced to ruins by the area's humidity but are still impressive (especially San Ignacio Min\u00ed) and they make a worthy detour from Iguaz\u00fa Falls (200km further north). Day trips can be arranged from Cu\u00f1a Pir\u00fa or Don Enrique lodges (more here).Journey Latin America (0208 747 8315, journeylatinamerica.co.uk) has a seven-day trip to Argentina, including stays in Buenos Aires and C\u00f3rdoba, for \u00a31661pp, including flights, accomodation, transfers, excursions and most meals.A stay at Azur Real Boutique Hotel (azurrealhotel.com, +54 351 424 7133) costs \u00a3145 per night.For more on C\u00f3rdoba, see cordobaturismo.gov.ar.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "South America holidays", "Pope Francis", "Catholicism", "The papacy", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "In Pope Francis's footsteps: a Jesuit tour of Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-12T12:08:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The chief executive's office at the MacBody textile factory looks normal enough. It has the big desk and faux-leather chair, a large computer screen and prints of successful advertising campaigns across the wall. The only thing that's missing is the chief executive himself. He left \u2026 five years ago.Ram\u00f3n D\u00edaz, a former salesman for the Argentinian clothing firm, now occupies his seat. The former salesman is there by the popular vote of his fellow workers. MacBody makes business decisions in a similar way, by a show of hands, he adds. \"We hold general meetings every Friday. If we're all at the table for lunch, then we do it there rather than lose time later in the day.\"MacBody is one of more than 300 so-called \"recovered factories\" operating in Argentina. Emerging during a major economic decline in the late 1990s, these unorthodox businesses began proliferating after a sovereign debt default in December 2001 that pushed many companies to the wall and left millions of workers jobless.In the case of MacBody, the owners faced fraud charges and \"simply disappeared\". That's how D\u00edaz tells it anyway. Rather than lose their jobs, he and his fellow employees decided to continue working. So the next day, they entered the $20m clothing factory as usual \u2013 only this time as their own bosses.\"At the beginning it was very difficult. We lost many of our clients. We didn't have a bank account. We couldn't access credit. You could say we were in intensive care for a while,\" he says. MacBody fortunately avoided any violent confrontations with police, a common feature of the early recovery movement as bankrupt owners sought to regain their assets.An emergency extension of credit from the government and two timely short-term loans from La Base, a grant-making non-profit, saw the company through its early months. Under a municipal expropriation law passed in the wake of the 2001 crisis, they also gained provisional legal status for their new enterprise.Emerging out of a decade of rabid privatisation, the leaders of Argentina's recovered factory movement advocate a different way of doing business. Among the most important principles are equal employee ownership and horizontal management. At MacBody, for example, executive positions are rotated every two years and everyone receives the same salary at the end of the month.\"When you're used to wearing blinkers for 20 years, then it's not always easy to start making decisions for yourself\", admits D\u00edaz. On the plus side, he says his job is now more flexible and varied. \"We all exchange tasks, so one day I can be working on the cutting table, another I might be going to the bank and another I could be on the road selling our products.\"Eduardo Mur\u00faa echoes the same sentiment. A spokesperson for metallurgy firm IMPA, Argentina's very first recovered factory, says worker attitudes have gone through a \"360 degree turnaround\" since the firm's expropriation. Accidents among the 47-member workforce have dropped, as have machine breakages. \"Before working efficiently and increasing the profitability of the company didn't matter to us. Now it does,\" he states.\"We work without anyone pushing us from behind. These days, we do the work, but we do it at our pace ... If we are exploited, it's because we have decided to exploit ourselves, not someone else. That's the big difference \u2026 If you ask anyone here if they would return to work with a boss, no-one would\", he says.Not all is rosy. The Mayor of Buenos Aires recently vetoed the expropriation law for his jurisdiction, throwing the capital city's 30 or so recovered factories back into legal limbo. In the case of IMPA, its ownership status is now subject to a case in the supreme court.Money worries have not gone away either. IMPA, which has contracts with cable television company Direct TV among others, is exceptional in paying wages over the market rate. Back at MacBody, D\u00edaz's salary has dropped by one third. Lack of business administrative expertise and investment capital represent other major shortcomings.Yet if they can survive the \"intensive care\" period, then most tend to stay in business, notes Julian Massaldi of La Base: \"The difficulties are huge, and there are flaws in the way that they manage themselves, but over the long-run they are improving rather than decaying.\"The longevity of the recovered factory model is partly thanks to government support. The current administration, led by left-leaning president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, operates a public works programme called Plan Argentina Trabaja (Argentina Works Plan). By issuing co-operatives with public contracts rather than issuing unemployment handouts, the government hopes to galvanise growth while also reducing its social benefit burden.In principle, it's a good idea. D\u00edaz certainly thinks so. But then he would. Last year, MacBody was given a contract to produce all the security bibs for the police. La Base's Massaldi is less certain. By depending on the state, recovered factories are in danger of reinforcing a popular prejudice of being unsustainable, uncompetitive and \u2013 worst of all \u2013 \"needing political contacts to survive\". The walls of the MacBody factory are covered with party political campaign literature, which suggests he might have a point.IMPA's Mur\u00faa is adamant that the recovered factory movement retains its autonomy and independence. A trade union activist by background, he sees the movement as a tool for political change and a step towards a \"post-capitalist system\", not just an alternative in management. \"Sure, we got rid of the boss that we knew, the one in the factory. But there are still bosses \u2013 the bosses behind the global system of production, namely imperialism, and the large monopolistic companies that set the rules\", he argues.Arguments over the political role of the movement have led to endless internecine battles between recovered factories, which are now split into multiple federations and other representative bodies.Over at Bauen Hotel, a favourite hangout of Carlos Menem, the former president and driving force of the 1990s privatisation boom, the bickering is being put aside for a moment. Preparations are under way for the 10th anniversary of the expropriation of the hotel, located in the very centre of Buenos Aires. \"We are going to cut off three rows of traffic and have a street party,\" says Guillermo Pfl\u00fcger, one of the \"first 30\" workers responsible for Bauen's recovery.Pfl\u00fcger, who doubles as the hotel's pianist and sound manager, recently commissioned a children's book on Bauen's story called Dwarves of Dignity, which he's trying to turn into an animated feature film. Stills from the book line his office wall. The largest depicts the king fleeing with his courtiers, while the cheering dwarves look on. \"While the worst is unfolding\", the caption reads, \"the battle was liberating.\"This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "New hope for Argentina in the recovered factory movement"},{"date": "2013-03-14T15:40:26Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, hopes to have won a powerful new ally in her campaign to wrest the Falklands from British control with the election of Jorge Mario Bergoglio as pope.The archbishop of Buenos Aires is on record as saying the islands were \"usurped\" by Britain, raising the possibility that he could use his position as leader of the world's 1.2 billion Roman Catholics to influence the future of the Falklands.Pope Francis is known to have a frosty relationship with Fern\u00e1ndez but the president has already hinted that she views his election as a boost to get back what Argentinians call Las Malvinas.Without mentioning the islands by name, Fern\u00e1ndez expressed a hope that the pope would \"send a message to the great powers so they will engage in dialogue\".Fern\u00e1ndez has demanded that Britain begin negotiations over the sovereignty of the islands the two countries went to war over just over 30 years ago \u2013 a demand rejected by the British government.At a memorial mass last year marking 30 years since the Falklands war, the then Cardinal Bergoglio said: \"We come to pray for those who have fallen, sons of the homeland who set out to defend their mother, the homeland, to claim the country that is theirs and they were usurped.\"The Foreign Office made its position clear on Thursday by issuing a friendly warning on the matter. A spokesman said: \"We wish Pope Francis every success in his papal duties. Our position on the Falklands remains, as ever, that the people who live there should be free to determine their own futures.\"While it was Pope Alexander VI who divided the New World between Portugal and Spain in the 15th century, there are no recent precedents for a pope becoming involved in a territorial dispute and experts believe it is unlikely he would wish \u2013 or have the time \u2013 to become embroiled in the matter.Victor Bulmer-Thomas, an associate fellow at Chatham House, said that Fern\u00e1ndez would no doubt try to use Francis's previous statements as propaganda but it was unlikely he would enter the debate. \"Of course, Argentina will refer to the fact that he made these statements,\" said Bulmer-Thomas. \"It's nice for them but I can't see it having any impact beyond that.\"He added: \"I imagine he would avoid it like the plague. As a good Argentinian, it was perfectly natural for him to support the position that most Argentinians take, but he's not representing Argentinians now but all Catholics ... You look at the list of things this poor man has to deal with and the Falklands has got to be way down.\"Papal historian Michael Walsh echoed Bulmer-Thomas's comments, saying: \"He's very unlikely to say anything that would upset one side rather than the other, although I can't help feeling it might be a long time before he gets an invitation to Britain.\"", "tags": ["Pope Francis", "Religion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "The papacy", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina"], "title": "Pope Francis appointment gives Argentina hope in Falklands dispute"},{"date": "2013-03-14T17:04:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The reasons usually cited for visiting Buenos Aires are decidedly unholy: great food, fantastic wines and a sexy atmosphere. From the street art around football mecca La Boca to the cobble-stoned, increasingly gentrified streets of San Telmo and the funky shops and buzzing bars of Palermo Viejo, there is so much to excite the senses that the lack of ancient, world-class sights on a par with those of Pope Francis's new home barely registers among visitors.There are parrillas (grills) on almost every corner \u2013 try Don Julio in Palermo, Soho (Guatemala 4691 and Gurruchaga) for a top-quality traditional experience, with excellent service from waiters who know their wine \u2013 as well as their beef. But it's not all big hunks of meat. High-end, avant garde restaurants offering new-wave Argentine cuisine (Nueva Cocina Argentina) are popping up all over the city. Among them is ultra smart Tarquino in Recoleta headed up by renowned chef, Dante Liporace, whose CV includes stints at El Bulli (Rodr\u00edguez Pe\u00f1a 1967, tarquinorestaurante.com.ar).For religious visitors to Buenos Aires, the main attraction lies not in the capital itself but 70km west. The town of Lujan, which was founded in 1756 on the site of a shrine containing a tiny ceramic figure of the Virgin Mary, is one of the major religious centres in Latin America. Its epic basilica erected in honour of the Virgin of Lujan in 1887 attracts around eight million visitors a year. For a sense of the religious fervour in this small town go at the weekend when seven or eight masses are held a day, or during a pilgrimage when you'll have to jostle for space with those who've come to honour the Virgin of Lujan (on the last Sunday of September up to a million gauchos descend on the town; and on the first Sunday of October young people walk here from Buenos Aires).Whether you're religious or not, one must-see is Recoleta cemetery, resting place for almost every major Argentine hero and villain, including Evita, several presidents and heavyweight boxer Luis \u00c1ngel Firpo.The days of living like a king for a few pesos are long gone. Prices have shot up in recent years (in the past week alone, it was announced that taxi fares would soon be jumping 20%') so check out our pick of where to stay on a relative budget, how to keep your costs down and where to enjoy great food on a day trip from the city.Mendoza is a must-visit for anyone, whether you're a wine lover or not. The city itself is lovely \u2013 leafy and refined with gobsmackingly good restaurants and bars on almost every street. Outside the city, vineyards stretch for miles to the foothills of the Andes, which form a constant and magnificent backdrop to the vineyards. Many of the wine makers have built architecturally stunning buildings housing high-end restaurants in the middle of rows of vines... (check out O.Fournier and Salentein). There's a wide choice of operators offering organised tours of the vineyards; if you're doing it independently, it's advisable to book in advance as many bodegas only open for pre-arranged visits.You could easily spend a few days here working your way through the area's fantastic Malbecs but there are other activities on offer in the wildly beautiful landscape, from hiking (not many have the experience to tackle the daunting Mount Aconcagua but you can walk in its national park), and rafting to cycling and, in winter, skiing.One of the natural wonders of the world, the Iguazu falls are worth more than just a day trip. They straddle the Argentine/Brazilian border, but you can get closer to the seething white water on the Argentinian side, where walkways take you right over the Garganta de Diablo \"Devil's Throat\", and you can also explore the forest. Once you've marvelled at the sight of 275 falls gushing over a 2.7km long precipe, spend a few days in the province of Misiones, exploring the remains of the Atlantic rainforest.The immense wilderness of Patagonia offers incredible trekking in its Los Glaciares National Park, most famously on the Perito Moreno Glacier, reached from the bustling tourist hub of El Calafate. Then there is the village of El Chalt\u00e9n, gateway to the Fitz Roy mountain range, whale watching at Peninsula Valdes, and the Welsh settlers' village at Gaiman \u2013 plus miles of untracked steppe doted with estancias. The best time to visit is Dec-March, as during the winter months of May-Oct the weather gets bitterly cold, places close and transport is less frequent.The easiest route from Buenos Aires is by plane to El Calafate (aerolineas.com.ar), or several bus companies travel along lonely Ruta 40 \u2013 Argentina's answer to Route 66, made famous by Ernesto 'Che' Guevara on his motorcyle tour. You can also reach the Chilean side of Patagonia from El Calafate by road to Torres Del Paine.The relatively unexplored yet spectacular north-west of Argentina is well worth a detour from the well-trodden route of wine country, waterfalls and glaciers. The capital Salta is a great base for a few days, mixing traditional gaucho and indigenous culture with sophisticated modern Argentina in the form of elegant boutique hotels and swish restaurants.Head north of the city and you are soon into rugged mountainous scenery. The Quebrada de Humahuaca, a long and dramatic canyon of multi-hued and towering rock formations, makes for a memorable road trip ending at the tiny village of Iruya, where the road peters out and footpaths provide the only access into the mountains. For a sense of the scenery check out the 2007 'Domino' Guinness advert which was filmed in the village.South of Salta lies the wine region of Cafayate, much less well known than Mendoza but producing some of the country's finest wines.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Pope Francis", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Buenos Aires holidays"], "title": "A quick guide to Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-28T10:28:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "\"The pope and I once had a fight,\" says Nelso, miming fisticuffs with his hands. \"But that was 30 years ago. Back when we were young and I had hair!\" He slaps his balding head and laughs. \u00a0Nelso Lenarduzzi, charismatic and white-whiskered, is the director of the Jesuit Museum in Argentina's central province of C\u00f3rdoba. We're in the middle of a tour of his exhibition \u2013 which includes Jesuit tapestries and relics from long-lost local Indian religions \u2013 when he suddenly lets slip on his heated clash with the man now known as Pope Francis.In the early 1980s, Jorge Bergoglio, then a relatively young priest acting on behalf of his superiors, visited the museum and announced he wanted to take 30 items back to a chapel in Buenos Aires province. Nelso was horrified as the priest listed some of the museum's most-treasured pieces, including a valuable altar.\"We didn't actually have a fist fight,\" he admits, laughing again at the idea, but strong words were exchanged and Bergoglio would not budge. \"Now, at least, I can say I've seen him at his toughest and I know he's no pushover.\"The Vatican's recent selection has shone a spotlight on Argentina. Yet although Bergoglio's Argentinian life has been largely dissected \u2013 from his football allegiances to his politics \u2013 a lot less has been made of his Jesuit connection. For those interested in finding out about the country's Jesuit history, C\u00f3rdoba is probably the best place to start. This, after all, is where the order once had a base so powerful it was seen as a serious threat to early Spanish rule.The province of C\u00f3rdoba is famed for its warm, dry climate, and green, fertile sierras. At its heart is Argentina's second city, also called C\u00f3rdoba and nicknamed La Docta (or the learned one) on account of its large student population. Since 2000, the city has also boasted Unesco world heritage status, thanks to its Jesuit block, which includes a stone church, priests' residences and one of the oldest universities in South America (1613).Bergoglio lived within the block for two years in the 1990s and now his bespectacled face gazes back at you all over town: on a celebratory banner outside the church, on a caricaturist's easel on a tourist-filled pedestrian walkway, and even on the pavement as a street trader sets out papal souvenirs in the late summer sun. Back in the late 16th century, the pope's predecessors arrived here from Europe and set about spreading their scholarly branch of the Catholic faith. They were so successful and efficient in their work that the Spaniards ultimately withdrew funding, scared that they were forming a state within a state. So, to keep the funds flowing for their evangelistic work, the Jesuits came up with plan B: the working estancia.Five examples of these estancias still stand, scattered across these central plains. My first stop was Estancia Caroya, surrounded by green fields and orange trees, 44km north of the city. Its design is typical for the era: a colonial-style mansion, built around a courtyard, with arched walkways and its own chapel. The whitewash walls and terracotta roof certainly look attractive against the cloudless blue skies, but aesthetics were not the Jesuits' main motivation. Estancias were working farms, heavily involved in the mule trade, and each plying its own specialist trade, from wine production to making bayonets.Only one to two Jesuits would live onsite, with labour from hundreds of African slaves.\"This is something that was not talked about for years,\" says Claudio Videla, director of the Caroya estancia. \"It was a dark part of history. Slaves were considered sub-human. Even after their sons were freed, the next generation was sent to their deaths when they were put in the front line [in civil and foreign conflict].\"This explains why today's Argentina has hardly any people of African descent, compared with Brazil or Uruguay.Jesuits also worked with local indigenous populations, who received a wage (to prevent an uprising) and completed much of their artisan work. Look up to C\u00f3rdoba's cathedral, for example, and you see angels' faces with Indian features, rather than traditional European cherubs.I made it to three out of the five estancias on the tourist route: Caroya; neighbouring Jes\u00fas Mar\u00eda (where I find Nesto's museum); and finally, 35km south-west of C\u00f3rdoba city, Alta Gracia, which squats at the start of the sierras, amid miles of cornfields.\u00a0Visiting the town of Alta Gracia gave me the chance to drop in on one of Argentina's other famous sons. In the 1940s, the Guevara family moved to the province, hoping the dry air would help cure the asthma of their oldest, Ernesto. The boy, who grew up to be known as Che, is now depicted in a bronze statue on the family home's front porch. Rooms of the small suburban home have been turned into a mini museum, featuring family photos and various memorabilia, including his last-ever diary entry before he was executed in the Bolivia jungle. Back in the early 2000s, this tiny museum might see about 5,000 visitors a year. Then, one day in 2006, two VIP guests popped in \u2013 Fidel Castro and Hugo Chavez. After that much-publicised appearance, annual visitor numbers shot up to 100,000.It's the mix of high-profile visits and Unesco recognition that has given C\u00f3rdoba's tourism a real boost in recent years. Once famed only for lomito (steak) sandwiches and fernet (the bitter Italian spirit drunk here as if it were water), the province is now trying to relaunch itself to appeal to the more sophisticated traveller. The Azul Real (the city's first boutique hotel) scored a coup earlier this year by persuading three hugely talented chefs (and siblings) to move a successful restaurant in their own home into the premises (+54 351 152 275476, casagalan.com.ar; try the spectacular \u00a325 tasting menu).Directly opposite Estancia Jes\u00fas Mar\u00eda, Restaurante El Museo opened in December. Featuring reclaimed wooden furniture and cushions made from Brazilian coffee sacks, it's full of rustic charm. A hotel extension is due to open here next year.But will tourism grow as result of the new pope? According to Nesto, the boost will only become a major deal if Pope Francis ever makes a return visit. (No fighting please, chaps.) Meanwhile, C\u00f3rdoba continues to pick up a range of unlikely fans from across the world.\"We had another British visitor, not long ago,\" Tomas, from the local tourist board, tells me. \"She's an actress. Well, no, not an actress. She's, erm \u2026 Well, her name is Katie Price.\" Yes, Jordan was here in 2011, accompanying her Cordobese boyfriend Leandro Pena (he spoke no English; she spoke no Spanish; Tomas acted as their translator).C\u00f3rdoba: from the Pope to Che Guevara to Katie Price. Hardly the Holy Trinity, but there must be a tourist board slogan in there somewhere.If you don't make it to C\u00f3rdoba, you can also get a taste of Argentina's Jesuit past in the north-eastern, rainforest-dottedMisiones province. The area's four missions have been reduced to ruins by the area's humidity but are still impressive (especially San Ignacio Min\u00ed) and they make a worthy detour from Iguaz\u00fa Falls (200km further north). Day trips can be arranged from Cu\u00f1a Pir\u00fa or Don Enrique lodges (more here).Journey Latin America (0208 747 8315, journeylatinamerica.co.uk) has a seven-day trip to Argentina, including stays in Buenos Aires and C\u00f3rdoba, for \u00a31661pp, including flights, accomodation, transfers, excursions and most meals.A stay at Azur Real Boutique Hotel (azurrealhotel.com, +54 351 424 7133) costs \u00a3145 per night.For more on C\u00f3rdoba, see cordobaturismo.gov.ar.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "South America holidays", "Pope Francis", "Catholicism", "The papacy", "Cultural trips", "Travel"], "title": "In Pope Francis's footsteps: a Jesuit tour of Argentina"},{"date": "2013-03-12T12:08:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The chief executive's office at the MacBody textile factory looks normal enough. It has the big desk and faux-leather chair, a large computer screen and prints of successful advertising campaigns across the wall. The only thing that's missing is the chief executive himself. He left \u2026 five years ago.Ram\u00f3n D\u00edaz, a former salesman for the Argentinian clothing firm, now occupies his seat. The former salesman is there by the popular vote of his fellow workers. MacBody makes business decisions in a similar way, by a show of hands, he adds. \"We hold general meetings every Friday. If we're all at the table for lunch, then we do it there rather than lose time later in the day.\"MacBody is one of more than 300 so-called \"recovered factories\" operating in Argentina. Emerging during a major economic decline in the late 1990s, these unorthodox businesses began proliferating after a sovereign debt default in December 2001 that pushed many companies to the wall and left millions of workers jobless.In the case of MacBody, the owners faced fraud charges and \"simply disappeared\". That's how D\u00edaz tells it anyway. Rather than lose their jobs, he and his fellow employees decided to continue working. So the next day, they entered the $20m clothing factory as usual \u2013 only this time as their own bosses.\"At the beginning it was very difficult. We lost many of our clients. We didn't have a bank account. We couldn't access credit. You could say we were in intensive care for a while,\" he says. MacBody fortunately avoided any violent confrontations with police, a common feature of the early recovery movement as bankrupt owners sought to regain their assets.An emergency extension of credit from the government and two timely short-term loans from La Base, a grant-making non-profit, saw the company through its early months. Under a municipal expropriation law passed in the wake of the 2001 crisis, they also gained provisional legal status for their new enterprise.Emerging out of a decade of rabid privatisation, the leaders of Argentina's recovered factory movement advocate a different way of doing business. Among the most important principles are equal employee ownership and horizontal management. At MacBody, for example, executive positions are rotated every two years and everyone receives the same salary at the end of the month.\"When you're used to wearing blinkers for 20 years, then it's not always easy to start making decisions for yourself\", admits D\u00edaz. On the plus side, he says his job is now more flexible and varied. \"We all exchange tasks, so one day I can be working on the cutting table, another I might be going to the bank and another I could be on the road selling our products.\"Eduardo Mur\u00faa echoes the same sentiment. A spokesperson for metallurgy firm IMPA, Argentina's very first recovered factory, says worker attitudes have gone through a \"360 degree turnaround\" since the firm's expropriation. Accidents among the 47-member workforce have dropped, as have machine breakages. \"Before working efficiently and increasing the profitability of the company didn't matter to us. Now it does,\" he states.\"We work without anyone pushing us from behind. These days, we do the work, but we do it at our pace ... If we are exploited, it's because we have decided to exploit ourselves, not someone else. That's the big difference \u2026 If you ask anyone here if they would return to work with a boss, no-one would\", he says.Not all is rosy. The Mayor of Buenos Aires recently vetoed the expropriation law for his jurisdiction, throwing the capital city's 30 or so recovered factories back into legal limbo. In the case of IMPA, its ownership status is now subject to a case in the supreme court.Money worries have not gone away either. IMPA, which has contracts with cable television company Direct TV among others, is exceptional in paying wages over the market rate. Back at MacBody, D\u00edaz's salary has dropped by one third. Lack of business administrative expertise and investment capital represent other major shortcomings.Yet if they can survive the \"intensive care\" period, then most tend to stay in business, notes Julian Massaldi of La Base: \"The difficulties are huge, and there are flaws in the way that they manage themselves, but over the long-run they are improving rather than decaying.\"The longevity of the recovered factory model is partly thanks to government support. The current administration, led by left-leaning president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, operates a public works programme called Plan Argentina Trabaja (Argentina Works Plan). By issuing co-operatives with public contracts rather than issuing unemployment handouts, the government hopes to galvanise growth while also reducing its social benefit burden.In principle, it's a good idea. D\u00edaz certainly thinks so. But then he would. Last year, MacBody was given a contract to produce all the security bibs for the police. La Base's Massaldi is less certain. By depending on the state, recovered factories are in danger of reinforcing a popular prejudice of being unsustainable, uncompetitive and \u2013 worst of all \u2013 \"needing political contacts to survive\". The walls of the MacBody factory are covered with party political campaign literature, which suggests he might have a point.IMPA's Mur\u00faa is adamant that the recovered factory movement retains its autonomy and independence. A trade union activist by background, he sees the movement as a tool for political change and a step towards a \"post-capitalist system\", not just an alternative in management. \"Sure, we got rid of the boss that we knew, the one in the factory. But there are still bosses \u2013 the bosses behind the global system of production, namely imperialism, and the large monopolistic companies that set the rules\", he argues.Arguments over the political role of the movement have led to endless internecine battles between recovered factories, which are now split into multiple federations and other representative bodies.Over at Bauen Hotel, a favourite hangout of Carlos Menem, the former president and driving force of the 1990s privatisation boom, the bickering is being put aside for a moment. Preparations are under way for the 10th anniversary of the expropriation of the hotel, located in the very centre of Buenos Aires. \"We are going to cut off three rows of traffic and have a street party,\" says Guillermo Pfl\u00fcger, one of the \"first 30\" workers responsible for Bauen's recovery.Pfl\u00fcger, who doubles as the hotel's pianist and sound manager, recently commissioned a children's book on Bauen's story called Dwarves of Dignity, which he's trying to turn into an animated feature film. Stills from the book line his office wall. The largest depicts the king fleeing with his courtiers, while the cheering dwarves look on. \"While the worst is unfolding\", the caption reads, \"the battle was liberating.\"This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "New hope for Argentina in the recovered factory movement"},{"date": "2013-03-14T15:40:26Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, hopes to have won a powerful new ally in her campaign to wrest the Falklands from British control with the election of Jorge Mario Bergoglio as pope.The archbishop of Buenos Aires is on record as saying the islands were \"usurped\" by Britain, raising the possibility that he could use his position as leader of the world's 1.2 billion Roman Catholics to influence the future of the Falklands.Pope Francis is known to have a frosty relationship with Fern\u00e1ndez but the president has already hinted that she views his election as a boost to get back what Argentinians call Las Malvinas.Without mentioning the islands by name, Fern\u00e1ndez expressed a hope that the pope would \"send a message to the great powers so they will engage in dialogue\".Fern\u00e1ndez has demanded that Britain begin negotiations over the sovereignty of the islands the two countries went to war over just over 30 years ago \u2013 a demand rejected by the British government.At a memorial mass last year marking 30 years since the Falklands war, the then Cardinal Bergoglio said: \"We come to pray for those who have fallen, sons of the homeland who set out to defend their mother, the homeland, to claim the country that is theirs and they were usurped.\"The Foreign Office made its position clear on Thursday by issuing a friendly warning on the matter. A spokesman said: \"We wish Pope Francis every success in his papal duties. Our position on the Falklands remains, as ever, that the people who live there should be free to determine their own futures.\"While it was Pope Alexander VI who divided the New World between Portugal and Spain in the 15th century, there are no recent precedents for a pope becoming involved in a territorial dispute and experts believe it is unlikely he would wish \u2013 or have the time \u2013 to become embroiled in the matter.Victor Bulmer-Thomas, an associate fellow at Chatham House, said that Fern\u00e1ndez would no doubt try to use Francis's previous statements as propaganda but it was unlikely he would enter the debate. \"Of course, Argentina will refer to the fact that he made these statements,\" said Bulmer-Thomas. \"It's nice for them but I can't see it having any impact beyond that.\"He added: \"I imagine he would avoid it like the plague. As a good Argentinian, it was perfectly natural for him to support the position that most Argentinians take, but he's not representing Argentinians now but all Catholics ... You look at the list of things this poor man has to deal with and the Falklands has got to be way down.\"Papal historian Michael Walsh echoed Bulmer-Thomas's comments, saying: \"He's very unlikely to say anything that would upset one side rather than the other, although I can't help feeling it might be a long time before he gets an invitation to Britain.\"", "tags": ["Pope Francis", "Religion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "The papacy", "World news", "Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina"], "title": "Pope Francis appointment gives Argentina hope in Falklands dispute"},{"date": "2013-03-12T08:20:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "David Cameron has called on Argentina to respect the wishes of the people of the Falkland Islands after they voted overwhelmingly for the territory to stay British in an unsurprising but still historical referendum that aims to send a defiant message to Argentina and the outside world.The prime minister said Argentina should take \"careful note\" of the referendum result and that Britain would always be there to defend the Falkland Islanders.Despite near zero temperatures and flurries of snow and rain, the turnout was 92% from an electorate of 1,650. All but three people voted yes to the question posed on the ballots: \"Do you wish the Falkland Islands to retain their current political status as an overseas territory of the United Kingdom?\"\u00a0Nobody expected anything but a landslide in a vote that the Argentinian government had dismissed as illegal. Regardless, the islanders said they were delighted at the strong show of unity at a time when the Falklands are coming under increasing pressure from Buenos Aires and its allies in South America.\"I'm very happy. Everyone has come together to express ourselves,\" said Kyle Biggs, who guides tourists to see penguins and battlefield sites from the 1982 war between Britain and Argentina. \"I think this is massively significant. It's important to show how much we want to stay British.\"After the results were announced, Biggs said, islanders celebrated late into the night (video) despite temperatures of 3C.In Argentina the result was dismissed with angry words by the government of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner. \"We must denounce this trickery that pretends to represent the popular participation of an implanted population,\" said Senator Daniel Filmus, a close collaborator of the president. \"This publicity stunt has no validity for international law.\"Argentina's Senate is preparing to vote this week on a motion to reject the Falklands referendum and reaffirm Argentina's longstanding claim to the islands it calls Las Malvinas. \"The United Kingdom lacks any right at all to pretend to alter the juridical status of these territories even with the disguise of a hypothetical referendum,\" said Argentina's foreign minister, Hector Timerman.Another close Kirchner collaborator, Senator Anibal Fernandez, restated the government's view of the Falklanders as a foreign population living illegally in Argentina. \"There will never be self-determination for an implanted population and there is no legal framework for this, the Malvinas are Argentine sovereign soil,\" said Fernandez.Speaking to an Argentinian radio station, the country's ambassador to London, Alicia Castro, suggested the islands need Argentina to guarantee their survival. \"How long can the islanders live isolated from the continent? They are 8,000 miles from London and 500 kilometres from continental Argentina,\" Castro told the Buenos Aires radio station La Red.Cameron insisted that the islanders were entitled to the right to self-determination. \"It is the clearest possible result there could be,\" he said.\"The Falkland Islands may be thousands of miles away but they are British through and through and that is how they want to stay. People should know we will always be there to defend them.\"We believe in self-determination. The Falkland Islanders have spoken so clearly about their future and now other countries right across the world, I hope, will respect and revere this very, very clear result.\" The Falklands have moved back into the international spotlight due to the 30th anniversary of the war and a push by President Kirchner to reassert her country's longstanding sovereignty claims.Argentina has raised the issue at the UN and regional bodies, placed full-page advertisements in British newspapers and \u2013 most controversially \u2013 restricted access to the islands. It has persuaded South American neighbours to turn away Falklands-flagged ships, curtailed overflights and imposed sanctions on companies that exploit the resources of the islands.The islanders have a high degree of legislative autonomy, although they are still under a governor sent by London. They organised their first ever referendum to show their determination to resist what some of them say is a blockade.Mike Summers, a member of the Falklands' Legislative Assembly, told the Guardian before the election that Argentina had become \"aggressive and difficult\".\"Our relationship with the UK is strong and mutually productive, and we would like to be left in peace to continue to develop that relationship for the benefit of future generations,\" he said.\u00a0The British foreign secretary, William Hague, said the referendum result demonstrated more clearly than ever the Falkland Islanders' wish to remain an overseas territory of Britain.\u00a0\"All countries should accept the results of this referendum and support the Falkland Islanders as they continue to develop their home and their economy. I wish them every success in doing so,\" he said.The vote is unlikely to shift opinion in Argentina. In 2012 a poll to mark the 30th anniversary of the war indicated that 89% of Argentinians support the sovereignty claims of Buenos Aires. Many believe the timing of the referendum is linked to the discovery of extensive oil and gas deposits, as well as growing interest in the Antarctic, which is likely to become an important source of fresh water and other resources. Veterans say it is absurd that the small community of islands should decide the fate of an strategically important area of land and sea that is bigger than Argentina itself.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Falkland Islands: respect 'yes' vote to staying British, Cameron tells Argentina"},{"date": "2013-05-21T11:14:04Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A true giant of modern thought, Ludwig Wittgenstein believed that all problems in philosophy arise from the misguided use of language. Although this opinion, put forward in his early writings, seems far-fetched nowadays, Wittgenstein had a point.Since the start of the sovereign debt crisis, two false analogies have prevailed in the public dialogue regarding Europe: the first draws parallels between the present situation in the eurozone periphery with the crisis in Argentina in 2001, while the second, especially popular in the British press, compares the European unification process with the federalisation of the United States of America.Starting with the first analogy, it is almost impossible to follow the debate on the euro crisis for a week without bumping into an article that likens Greece and the rest of the European south to Argentina. The most recent example I saw, is by Thomas Catan and Marcus Walker, published in the Wall Street Journal, on 19 May: \"Like countries that joined the eurozone, Argentina in the 1990s gave up control over its own currency, fixing it 1-to-1 to the US dollar\u2026 Like euro members today, Argentina had to grin and bear it until wages and prices fell far enough for the country to become competitive again,\" reads the article. The authors claim that Argentina should be \"a cautionary tale\" for leaders in Europe, because Argentineans, like Greeks or Spaniards, supported the peso's peg to the dollar, until they suddenly stopped.The analogy is outrageous. Argentina, like dozens of countries before and after it, had opted to peg its currency to another, namely the dollar. In fact, this is not unusual in international economics. The 17 members of the eurozone, on the other hand, have chosen to denounce their own currencies and \"irrevocably\" adopt another. I sometimes wonder how the hell people cannot see the difference here: the drachma, the lira, the deutsche mark, simply do not exist today. Hence, no one can unpeg them from the euro or the dollar. Let me put it another way: Argentina devalued its own currency; Greece will have to introduce another one. The new currency will not be the drachma of the 1990s. It will just have the same name as the drachma.True, no decision in politics is truly irrevocable. So the Cypriots or the Greeks, for example, could choose to ignore the logistical chaos of abandoning the euro and print a new currency. But will the new currency, which will be issued by effectively bankrupt states, have any exchange value whatsoever? Will the Russians accept it in exchange for oil, and the Americans in exchange for medicines? Especially Greece, which, unlike Argentina, is not a net exporter of raw materials (or any materials for that matter), will have no means to support the new currency. Greeks can print as much as they like of it, but will they be able to buy electrical appliances, cars or even foods produced abroad with it? The answer is no. Sure, they will be holding real money in their hands, but they will still be \"poor\", probably much poorer than they are now.There is another, even more obvious difference between the eurozone and Argentina. The government of Buenos Aires chose to unpeg its currency from the currency of a foreign nation. In the case of eurozone, the single currency is the most crucial part of an immensely complicated structure of unified decision-making we came to call the European Union. Like the euro, the EU is also a unique construct in modern history and all analogies drawn between it and other cases of economic crises are unfounded. The EU is based on the premise of an \"ever closer union\". Sure, you can slow down the whole process and even bring it to a halt, as the British government demands. But if you put it in reverse gear by dissolving the euro, this will trigger a chain reaction of \"renationalising\" that will bring the EU to an end. And that is only the best-case scenario. In fact, the most likely scenario is that the chaos that would ensue immediately after the dissolution of the euro would lead to the sudden death of the EU. It doesn't take a genius to understand that the economic, political and geostrategic stakes are immensely higher for the eurozone member states than they were for Argentina in 2001. I am not arguing that such an eventuality is impossible, but it will be like nothing we have seen before, just as the EU is like nothing we have seen before.And that brings us to my second point. The term \"United States of Europe,\" which is so often used in the British press, mistakenly likens the EU to the USA and implies that Brussels is (or soon will be) the capital of a federal state. Nothing could be further from the truth. In every single federal state in the world, the central government is responsible for \"high politics\", most notably defence, foreign policy and budget. Local governments, in turn, are relatively free to decide on \"low politics\" issues, like schools, healthcare, etc. What happens in the EU is exactly the opposite. Its member states are close allies (most are members of Nato anyway), but they do not have a common defence policy. There is some degree of coordination in foreign affairs, but rarely unanimity, let alone central planning. And the central budget of the EU is just 1% of the region's total GDP. The nation states collect taxes and decide where and how they will spend most of their money. The fiscal pact, which was voluntarily signed between sovereign EU governments, just puts a limit on how much they are allowed to spend.Unlike federal states, the EU is responsible for the micromanagement in \"low politics\" fields. It is obviously annoying for some of us to have Brussels decide on trivial things, but it is also the only way for a single market to function. Someone needs to draw and enforce the rules for competition, trade, patents, recognition of professional qualifications, etc. Otherwise, the free movement of goods, capital, services and people that makes the EU by far the largest market in the world would be impossible. In fact, it is the member states and the representatives of national governments who decide most of these rules, in the Council of Ministers' meetings. The EU commission largely suggests directives to member states, implements their decisions and acts as the guardian of the treaties as national governments have agreed. Even for the eurozone member states, the most powerful decision-making body is not the commission, but the Eurogroup, which comprises of the finance ministers of member states.In other words, both the EU and the eurozone are unique structures. Analogies with the US, Argentina or other places in the world, are erroneous and only confuse the issue. So please, colleagues, just stop it, if for no other reason than that Wittgenstein would be furious with you.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "World news", "Argentina", "Americas", "European monetary union", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "No, Argentina is not a 'cautionary tale' for the eurozone | Nikos Chrysoloras"},{"date": "2013-05-21T11:14:04Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A true giant of modern thought, Ludwig Wittgenstein believed that all problems in philosophy arise from the misguided use of language. Although this opinion, put forward in his early writings, seems far-fetched nowadays, Wittgenstein had a point.Since the start of the sovereign debt crisis, two false analogies have prevailed in the public dialogue regarding Europe: the first draws parallels between the present situation in the eurozone periphery with the crisis in Argentina in 2001, while the second, especially popular in the British press, compares the European unification process with the federalisation of the United States of America.Starting with the first analogy, it is almost impossible to follow the debate on the euro crisis for a week without bumping into an article that likens Greece and the rest of the European south to Argentina. The most recent example I saw, is by Thomas Catan and Marcus Walker, published in the Wall Street Journal, on 19 May: \"Like countries that joined the eurozone, Argentina in the 1990s gave up control over its own currency, fixing it 1-to-1 to the US dollar\u2026 Like euro members today, Argentina had to grin and bear it until wages and prices fell far enough for the country to become competitive again,\" reads the article. The authors claim that Argentina should be \"a cautionary tale\" for leaders in Europe, because Argentineans, like Greeks or Spaniards, supported the peso's peg to the dollar, until they suddenly stopped.The analogy is outrageous. Argentina, like dozens of countries before and after it, had opted to peg its currency to another, namely the dollar. In fact, this is not unusual in international economics. The 17 members of the eurozone, on the other hand, have chosen to denounce their own currencies and \"irrevocably\" adopt another. I sometimes wonder how the hell people cannot see the difference here: the drachma, the lira, the deutsche mark, simply do not exist today. Hence, no one can unpeg them from the euro or the dollar. Let me put it another way: Argentina devalued its own currency; Greece will have to introduce another one. The new currency will not be the drachma of the 1990s. It will just have the same name as the drachma.True, no decision in politics is truly irrevocable. So the Cypriots or the Greeks, for example, could choose to ignore the logistical chaos of abandoning the euro and print a new currency. But will the new currency, which will be issued by effectively bankrupt states, have any exchange value whatsoever? Will the Russians accept it in exchange for oil, and the Americans in exchange for medicines? Especially Greece, which, unlike Argentina, is not a net exporter of raw materials (or any materials for that matter), will have no means to support the new currency. Greeks can print as much as they like of it, but will they be able to buy electrical appliances, cars or even foods produced abroad with it? The answer is no. Sure, they will be holding real money in their hands, but they will still be \"poor\", probably much poorer than they are now.There is another, even more obvious difference between the eurozone and Argentina. The government of Buenos Aires chose to unpeg its currency from the currency of a foreign nation. In the case of eurozone, the single currency is the most crucial part of an immensely complicated structure of unified decision-making we came to call the European Union. Like the euro, the EU is also a unique construct in modern history and all analogies drawn between it and other cases of economic crises are unfounded. The EU is based on the premise of an \"ever closer union\". Sure, you can slow down the whole process and even bring it to a halt, as the British government demands. But if you put it in reverse gear by dissolving the euro, this will trigger a chain reaction of \"renationalising\" that will bring the EU to an end. And that is only the best-case scenario. In fact, the most likely scenario is that the chaos that would ensue immediately after the dissolution of the euro would lead to the sudden death of the EU. It doesn't take a genius to understand that the economic, political and geostrategic stakes are immensely higher for the eurozone member states than they were for Argentina in 2001. I am not arguing that such an eventuality is impossible, but it will be like nothing we have seen before, just as the EU is like nothing we have seen before.And that brings us to my second point. The term \"United States of Europe,\" which is so often used in the British press, mistakenly likens the EU to the USA and implies that Brussels is (or soon will be) the capital of a federal state. Nothing could be further from the truth. In every single federal state in the world, the central government is responsible for \"high politics\", most notably defence, foreign policy and budget. Local governments, in turn, are relatively free to decide on \"low politics\" issues, like schools, healthcare, etc. What happens in the EU is exactly the opposite. Its member states are close allies (most are members of Nato anyway), but they do not have a common defence policy. There is some degree of coordination in foreign affairs, but rarely unanimity, let alone central planning. And the central budget of the EU is just 1% of the region's total GDP. The nation states collect taxes and decide where and how they will spend most of their money. The fiscal pact, which was voluntarily signed between sovereign EU governments, just puts a limit on how much they are allowed to spend.Unlike federal states, the EU is responsible for the micromanagement in \"low politics\" fields. It is obviously annoying for some of us to have Brussels decide on trivial things, but it is also the only way for a single market to function. Someone needs to draw and enforce the rules for competition, trade, patents, recognition of professional qualifications, etc. Otherwise, the free movement of goods, capital, services and people that makes the EU by far the largest market in the world would be impossible. In fact, it is the member states and the representatives of national governments who decide most of these rules, in the Council of Ministers' meetings. The EU commission largely suggests directives to member states, implements their decisions and acts as the guardian of the treaties as national governments have agreed. Even for the eurozone member states, the most powerful decision-making body is not the commission, but the Eurogroup, which comprises of the finance ministers of member states.In other words, both the EU and the eurozone are unique structures. Analogies with the US, Argentina or other places in the world, are erroneous and only confuse the issue. So please, colleagues, just stop it, if for no other reason than that Wittgenstein would be furious with you.", "tags": ["Eurozone crisis", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics", "World news", "Argentina", "Americas", "European monetary union", "Banking", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Financial sector", "Euro", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "No, Argentina is not a 'cautionary tale' for the eurozone | Nikos Chrysoloras"},{"date": "2013-04-22T14:44:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A spectacular suspected meteor was spotted over Santiago del Estero in Argentina in the early hours of Sunday morning. The skies were lit up by a fireball, and locals reportedly felt the ground shake as it fell to earth.Did you spot it? Share your images or videos of this event.GuardianWitness is the home of user-generated content on the Guardian. Contribute your video, pictures and stories, and browse news, reviews and creations submitted by others. Posts will be reviewed prior to publication on GuardianWitness, and the best pieces will feature on the Guardian site.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Science"], "title": "Did you spot the suspected meteor over Argentina?"},{"date": "2013-09-19T18:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has called for the extradition of four Spanish former officials accused of torturing victims of the Franco regime in a decision described as historic by the lawyers and human rights activists who brought the case.As in the case of Augusto Pinochet \u2013 the former Chilean dictator whose arrest was ordered by Spanish judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n in 1998 \u2013 an Argentinian judge issued warrants for the four men under an international law allowing human rights abuses to be investigated and tried elsewhere if the country in which they occurred does not do so.\"It is an historic moment for thousands of victims of the Franco regime. The impunity which has covered up these crimes for so many years has finally been breached. We have a long way to go, but we are now on track,\" said Maria Arcenegui Siemens, spokeswoman for Ceaqua, a support group for the victims.The alleged abuses took place between 1936 and 1977, and include crimes allegedly committed by Jos\u00e9 Antonio Gonz\u00e1lez Pacheco, known as \"Billy the Kid\", said to have been one of the most sadistic of the dictator's henchmen. He and his fellow accused, Jes\u00fas Aguilar, Celso Galv\u00e1n Abascal and Jos\u00e9 Ignacio Giralte, are in their 60s and 70s and live in Spain.Garz\u00f3n previously employed the same legal principle of universal jurisdiction to prosecute the Argentinian navy captain Adolfo Scilingo in Madrid in 2005. Scilingo, who threw prisoners to their death from planes, was convicted of crimes against humanity and jailed for a total of 640 years. Garz\u00f3n has led the push to have Franco's crimes investigated in Spain, but so far without success.Spanish amnesty laws, brought in in 1977 as the country made the transition from dictatorship to democracy, prevent its courts from investigating crimes committed by the authorities before 1976. General Franco died in 1975. After the victims of Franco failed to get redress in the Spanish courts, they took their cases to Argentina in 2010. Argentinian judge Mar\u00eda Servini de Cubr\u00eda Servini petitioned Spain to look into the alleged torture, but has now taken matters into her own hands, declaring her court competent to try the cases.Emilio Silva, president of the Commission for the Recovery of the Historic Memory, described himself as \"very happy\" about her decision, but said that it was \"a shame that it hadn't already happened in Spain. But whatever way we can find to investigate the crimes of Franco is a good thing\".But, he added, \"Nothing is going to change, because the [Spanish] government is not going to collaborate with the Argentinian justice system. I will be very interested to know know what explanations they will give for protecting these four criminals. Spain is a country with a culture of impunity, as much in cases of corruption as these examples of torture under Franco.\"The cases involve several people killed or \"disappeared\" by death squads in the early days of the Spanish civil war in 1936, when Franco helped lead a rightwing uprising against the democratically elected government. But some cases extend deep into the fourth decade of his dictatorship, including that of Silvia Carretero, arrested and allegedly tortured in 1975, and her husband, Jos\u00e9 Luis S\u00e1nchez Bravo, who was shot by firing squad after he was found guilty of killing a police officer. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Spain", "Extradition", "Law", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina calls for extradition of Francoists over human rights abuses"},{"date": "2013-09-19T18:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has called for the extradition of four Spanish former officials accused of torturing victims of the Franco regime in a decision described as historic by the lawyers and human rights activists who brought the case.As in the case of Augusto Pinochet \u2013 the former Chilean dictator whose arrest was ordered by Spanish judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n in 1998 \u2013 an Argentinian judge issued warrants for the four men under an international law allowing human rights abuses to be investigated and tried elsewhere if the country in which they occurred does not do so.\"It is an historic moment for thousands of victims of the Franco regime. The impunity which has covered up these crimes for so many years has finally been breached. We have a long way to go, but we are now on track,\" said Maria Arcenegui Siemens, spokeswoman for Ceaqua, a support group for the victims.The alleged abuses took place between 1936 and 1977, and include crimes allegedly committed by Jos\u00e9 Antonio Gonz\u00e1lez Pacheco, known as \"Billy the Kid\", said to have been one of the most sadistic of the dictator's henchmen. He and his fellow accused, Jes\u00fas Aguilar, Celso Galv\u00e1n Abascal and Jos\u00e9 Ignacio Giralte, are in their 60s and 70s and live in Spain.Garz\u00f3n previously employed the same legal principle of universal jurisdiction to prosecute the Argentinian navy captain Adolfo Scilingo in Madrid in 2005. Scilingo, who threw prisoners to their death from planes, was convicted of crimes against humanity and jailed for a total of 640 years. Garz\u00f3n has led the push to have Franco's crimes investigated in Spain, but so far without success.Spanish amnesty laws, brought in in 1977 as the country made the transition from dictatorship to democracy, prevent its courts from investigating crimes committed by the authorities before 1976. General Franco died in 1975. After the victims of Franco failed to get redress in the Spanish courts, they took their cases to Argentina in 2010. Argentinian judge Mar\u00eda Servini de Cubr\u00eda Servini petitioned Spain to look into the alleged torture, but has now taken matters into her own hands, declaring her court competent to try the cases.Emilio Silva, president of the Commission for the Recovery of the Historic Memory, described himself as \"very happy\" about her decision, but said that it was \"a shame that it hadn't already happened in Spain. But whatever way we can find to investigate the crimes of Franco is a good thing\".But, he added, \"Nothing is going to change, because the [Spanish] government is not going to collaborate with the Argentinian justice system. I will be very interested to know know what explanations they will give for protecting these four criminals. Spain is a country with a culture of impunity, as much in cases of corruption as these examples of torture under Franco.\"The cases involve several people killed or \"disappeared\" by death squads in the early days of the Spanish civil war in 1936, when Franco helped lead a rightwing uprising against the democratically elected government. But some cases extend deep into the fourth decade of his dictatorship, including that of Silvia Carretero, arrested and allegedly tortured in 1975, and her husband, Jos\u00e9 Luis S\u00e1nchez Bravo, who was shot by firing squad after he was found guilty of killing a police officer. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Spain", "Extradition", "Law", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina calls for extradition of Francoists over human rights abuses"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-09-19T18:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has called for the extradition of four Spanish former officials accused of torturing victims of the Franco regime in a decision described as historic by the lawyers and human rights activists who brought the case.As in the case of Augusto Pinochet \u2013 the former Chilean dictator whose arrest was ordered by Spanish judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n in 1998 \u2013 an Argentinian judge issued warrants for the four men under an international law allowing human rights abuses to be investigated and tried elsewhere if the country in which they occurred does not do so.\"It is an historic moment for thousands of victims of the Franco regime. The impunity which has covered up these crimes for so many years has finally been breached. We have a long way to go, but we are now on track,\" said Maria Arcenegui Siemens, spokeswoman for Ceaqua, a support group for the victims.The alleged abuses took place between 1936 and 1977, and include crimes allegedly committed by Jos\u00e9 Antonio Gonz\u00e1lez Pacheco, known as \"Billy the Kid\", said to have been one of the most sadistic of the dictator's henchmen. He and his fellow accused, Jes\u00fas Aguilar, Celso Galv\u00e1n Abascal and Jos\u00e9 Ignacio Giralte, are in their 60s and 70s and live in Spain.Garz\u00f3n previously employed the same legal principle of universal jurisdiction to prosecute the Argentinian navy captain Adolfo Scilingo in Madrid in 2005. Scilingo, who threw prisoners to their death from planes, was convicted of crimes against humanity and jailed for a total of 640 years. Garz\u00f3n has led the push to have Franco's crimes investigated in Spain, but so far without success.Spanish amnesty laws, brought in in 1977 as the country made the transition from dictatorship to democracy, prevent its courts from investigating crimes committed by the authorities before 1976. General Franco died in 1975. After the victims of Franco failed to get redress in the Spanish courts, they took their cases to Argentina in 2010. Argentinian judge Mar\u00eda Servini de Cubr\u00eda Servini petitioned Spain to look into the alleged torture, but has now taken matters into her own hands, declaring her court competent to try the cases.Emilio Silva, president of the Commission for the Recovery of the Historic Memory, described himself as \"very happy\" about her decision, but said that it was \"a shame that it hadn't already happened in Spain. But whatever way we can find to investigate the crimes of Franco is a good thing\".But, he added, \"Nothing is going to change, because the [Spanish] government is not going to collaborate with the Argentinian justice system. I will be very interested to know know what explanations they will give for protecting these four criminals. Spain is a country with a culture of impunity, as much in cases of corruption as these examples of torture under Franco.\"The cases involve several people killed or \"disappeared\" by death squads in the early days of the Spanish civil war in 1936, when Franco helped lead a rightwing uprising against the democratically elected government. But some cases extend deep into the fourth decade of his dictatorship, including that of Silvia Carretero, arrested and allegedly tortured in 1975, and her husband, Jos\u00e9 Luis S\u00e1nchez Bravo, who was shot by firing squad after he was found guilty of killing a police officer. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Spain", "Extradition", "Law", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina calls for extradition of Francoists over human rights abuses"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-08-06T06:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Arrival was like the opening of a Sergio Leone epic. We had been driving for hours up a long, spectacular valley: great slashes of red rock strata knifed into folded grey mountains and a sparkling river snaked along the dusty valley. At one point we entered a sleepy town square where many houses had blackboards outside declaring what was for sale inside. We bought tamales, delicious hot corn dough wrapped around meat or cheese \u2013 no vegetables, of course; no self-respecting Argentinian would eat a vegetable unless under doctor's orders, and what do those quacks know?Further up the valley a small fox with big ears scuttled across the road then stopped to watch us. He was only 20m away, quite unperturbed, looking like he'd come over if we called his name. It was only later that I\u00a0remembered his curious lack of fear.The houses on this stretch of northern Argentina's Calchaquies valley are often abandoned, with unbuttoned thatch tumbling over their porches. A pair of vultures hung on a thermal above. As things became even more desiccated, we came around a gravelly bluff and arrived at a clutch of single-storey adobe buildings gathered around a pile of sleeping dogs. One of them got up, wagged his tail, then flumped back down again, exhausted. Nothing else moved. I resisted the desire to whistle a Morricone theme.While Edgar, my guide, went off to find our hosts, I climbed the gravelly bluff, followed by a loping hound who appeared to be grinning at me. (I found out later he was nicknamed Sonrisa \u2013 or Smile.) The view from 100m above the tiny settlement was a shock: the stark beauty of serrated stacks of ridges contrasting with a lush valley, where flocks of tiny doves were surfing along swelling ranks of vines. This place obviously had some secret charms.Hosts Ernesto and Raquel \u2013 he a tall, handsome horseman; she, small and energetic \u2013 were already setting the lunch table in the shady porch. The next few days were to be a homestay run by a collective called Red de Turismo Campesino. I was a little anxious at that moment: in this barren moonscape, what could a visitor do except doze in a hammock and wait for Clint Eastwood to stroll through the saloon doors? Except there were no saloons in sight, nor even a shop.Ernesto asked if my partner, Sophie, and I would like to see the vineyards before lunch, so we set down the valley. In the deep shade of the trees a new world opened up: rabbits hopped among the chickens, while wild birds flitted around. Their apparent tameness reminded me of the fox.\"We've never hunted this area,\" said Ernesto. \"So everything comes close \u2013 apart from the puma.\"There were fruit trees here and a few hectares of vines. Attempting to establish some common ground, I told Ernesto about my collection back home of small tropical and sub-tropical trees \u2013 avocado, mandarin, banana and lemon, all grown from seed, and not one fruit from any of them in years. What should I do?\"Graft on them,\" he laughed, and pointed up the track. \"Don't worry about that. Come and see the horses.\"Ernesto's horse was the tamest I'd ever seen. At a whispered command and a gentle push, it would lie down and stay silent. \"It's a local tradition to teach a horse this trick \u2013 from the days when we fought the Spanish.\"It was a reminder of the complex history here. The local tribe, the Diaguita, were conquered by the Incas 100 years before the Spanish arrived and tore into the local culture like wolves (quite literally: they ripped out the tongues of those who refused to speak Spanish). With treatment like that the Diaguita language and culture were almost obliterated, but connections and ancestral pride linger. By the 1990s many people had moved away but, like Ernesto, some were moving back, eager to reconnect with the land. At the same time parts of the valley, especially further south, were being taken over by multinational winery businesses. Locals were responding with demonstrations and movements such as this tourism network, trying to keep local hands on the land and revive traditional skills.Back at the house the table was groaning under plates of food (meat, mainly) and several neighbours \u2013 Walter, Fernando and Nelson \u2013 had turned up, each with a couple of bottles of their own wine. It was, I predicted, going to be a long lunch. The cool of the veranda was lovely. The people were friendly. But I expected the wine to be as rough as a donkey's armpit. The point, I'd thought, was to support these small producers until they could make something halfway decent and at least compete at the bottom of the market.\"I only do about 1,000 bottles a year,\" said Walter, handing me a glass. \"Try this malbec. I named it after my Dad.\" I noted the amateurish label. But with the first taste came realisation that I had badly misjudged. The wine was glorious, with rich, smooth flavours.Fernando poured another red, a mix of criolla, malbec and cabernet grapes that his late father had devised and he had perfected. \"It won a gold medal in the national championships,\" he said, proudly \u2013 and justifiably, as I soon discovered. While that was slipping down very acceptably, Nelson was pouring from an unlabelled bottle.\"I'm just starting to make wine,\" he said. \"I moved back home from the city two years ago.\"\"Are you happy?\"The others all started laughing. \"Does he look unhappy?\"It was true. I'd rarely seen a human being who looked quite so contented as Nelson.A couple of hours and several empty bottles later, they all stood up and stretched. Siesta, I thought, wrongly.\"OK, we want to show you why we love this place.\"We piled into Nelson's truck, drove for 10\u00a0minutes up the track, then got out and walked to the river. The location was spectacular: huge, jagged crags all around and a river coursing through, wide as a football pitch. The men threw off their shoes and waded in up to their waists. \"Come on! We're going to show you the rock paintings.\"The water was icy, rapidly clearing any red-wine fuzziness. On the other side we entered a secret world of narrow, twisting canyons that led to ancient rock art, a vestige of the Diaguita era. On the way back we were treated to a theatrical sunset as successive ridges of mountains briefly burned up with the last rays and then faded to purple.That evening, Ernesto taught me the esoteric art of the asado, the Argentinian barbecue. First lesson: if one man can carry the meat, there isn't\u00a0enough.\"Do you have any cows?\" asked Nelson. \"What about horses? Vineyards? How many types of fruit do you grow?\"My one small dog, Wilf, and my handful of sterile fruit trees did not impress him. I could have happily spent some days here, learning about wine-making, but next day Edgar and I\u00a0set out again, this time to stay in the house of Soledad Qutipa, a local potter and horsewoman. She lives under a mountain called El Zorrito, where the last Inca emperor, Atahualpa, is rumoured to have hidden his treasure.Inside Soledad's lovely adobe house were numerous strange terracotta figurines, her tributes to the Earth Mother, Pachamama, who despite five centuries of catholicism still reigns supreme here. The use of adobe in buildings, for example, continues as a mark of respect to her: when villages are abandoned they slowly disappear back into the earth, leaving no trace.As soon as we arrived, I was given a lesson in making local favourite humitas, a delicious stodge of corn, onion, basil, cheese and peppers. When they were ready, Soledad took us outside to eat.\"Do you want to visit Los Colorados?\" she asked. \"It's where I find the clay for my pots, up there under El Zorrito.\"The last humita finished, we went to meet her neighbour, Antonio, whose horses are a crossbreed of local mustang and Peruvian paso, the latter renowned for having a strange ambling gait instead of a trot. For me, who finds horses as comfortable as cars with square wheels, this proved a\u00a0hit. On these easy-going animals we blasted through the sparse, aromatic bush, eventually entering a gorge which led into a silent world of twisting, narrow slot canyons. It felt like some ancient fossilised casbah inhabited only by owls. I picked up a pellet filled with the skulls of tiny, long-toothed rodents.This magical and mysterious place had been discovered by Soledad's mother when, as a child, she had come in search of a lost sheep.On the way back, Soledad explained her interest in pottery. \"It's a traditional art here, dating from before the Spanish. I like to use ancient symbols like toad, sury (a flightless bird), snake and owl. When I'm making pots, time passes and I don't notice. It's very satisfying.\"At the house, Soledad took out her bags of clay and showed me how she makes a traditional Diaguita jug with handle, making it look deceptively easy. Afterwards we drank herbal tea (mate) from jars she had made, then I\u00a0sat under a vault of stars and watched meteorites running down the Milky Way like beads of quicksilver.Community-based tourism is not a simple matter. In my experience, the goal of a balanced cultural exchange can easily be destroyed by too much emphasis on the tourist dollar, or by the local culture being too weak or uninteresting. Here in the Calchaquies valley they have got it about right, with strong local characters bringing energy and passion to the task. They were asking me almost as many questions as I did of them.I spent my final day amid wineland near the town of Cafayate, which is also home to some intriguing communities. A few miles outside the town, approachable only by walking across a deep gorge, we found the idyllic oasis of El Divisadero, presided over by a formidable 80-year-old, Teresa Guti\u00e9rrez. Acres of vineyards and fruit trees are tended by an extended family of 12 sons, 56 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. Visitor accommodation is a stone cabin on an outcrop, with stunning views up the valley. Hummingbirds flitted among the flowers and black eagles soared overhead.I sat with Enrique, one of the sons, and ate his mother's unbeatable empanadas, meat pasties, fresh from the earth oven.\"The tourism co-operative has worked well for us,\" he said, \"They brought us piped water and latrines. Next we want electricity and a bridge.\"He pointed out various trees: \"That's a cross between orange and lemon that we made. That's a small white peach \u2013 delicious.\"There were figs, apples and avocados too, as well as grapes: malbec, cabernet and local speciality torrontes. It was time to broach the subject of my sterile fruit garden again. \"Enrique,\" I said, \"I once grew a lemon tree from a seed and it's now 10\u00a0years old and hasn't produced a single fruit. What do I do?\"He tipped back his hat and gravely drained the red wine from his tumbler. \"Have you made offerings of coca leaves to Pachamama?\" I had to admit I had not.\"Then you must,\" he admonished.\"And give her some wine too.\"\"And if that doesn't work?\"He grinned. \"Then beat the tree.\"The cultural exchange, I felt, was complete. Next spring, my back garden will witness some unusual ceremonies.Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to Buenos Aires from London airports with KLM\u00a0from \u00a3699Kevin travelled with Sumak Travel (020-3642 4246, sumak-travel.org), which specialises in community-based ecotourism to Latin America. A nine-day private tour, including guide, accommodation, all breakfasts and most other meals, internal transfers, activities, wine tastings and\u00a0contributions to the social projects\u00a0visited, but not international flights, costs from \u00a3985pp, based on two sharing", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Adventure travel", "Horse riding holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Homestays in Argentina: how ethical holidays are protecting a way of life"},{"date": "2013-09-19T18:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has called for the extradition of four Spanish former officials accused of torturing victims of the Franco regime in a decision described as historic by the lawyers and human rights activists who brought the case.As in the case of Augusto Pinochet \u2013 the former Chilean dictator whose arrest was ordered by Spanish judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n in 1998 \u2013 an Argentinian judge issued warrants for the four men under an international law allowing human rights abuses to be investigated and tried elsewhere if the country in which they occurred does not do so.\"It is an historic moment for thousands of victims of the Franco regime. The impunity which has covered up these crimes for so many years has finally been breached. We have a long way to go, but we are now on track,\" said Maria Arcenegui Siemens, spokeswoman for Ceaqua, a support group for the victims.The alleged abuses took place between 1936 and 1977, and include crimes allegedly committed by Jos\u00e9 Antonio Gonz\u00e1lez Pacheco, known as \"Billy the Kid\", said to have been one of the most sadistic of the dictator's henchmen. He and his fellow accused, Jes\u00fas Aguilar, Celso Galv\u00e1n Abascal and Jos\u00e9 Ignacio Giralte, are in their 60s and 70s and live in Spain.Garz\u00f3n previously employed the same legal principle of universal jurisdiction to prosecute the Argentinian navy captain Adolfo Scilingo in Madrid in 2005. Scilingo, who threw prisoners to their death from planes, was convicted of crimes against humanity and jailed for a total of 640 years. Garz\u00f3n has led the push to have Franco's crimes investigated in Spain, but so far without success.Spanish amnesty laws, brought in in 1977 as the country made the transition from dictatorship to democracy, prevent its courts from investigating crimes committed by the authorities before 1976. General Franco died in 1975. After the victims of Franco failed to get redress in the Spanish courts, they took their cases to Argentina in 2010. Argentinian judge Mar\u00eda Servini de Cubr\u00eda Servini petitioned Spain to look into the alleged torture, but has now taken matters into her own hands, declaring her court competent to try the cases.Emilio Silva, president of the Commission for the Recovery of the Historic Memory, described himself as \"very happy\" about her decision, but said that it was \"a shame that it hadn't already happened in Spain. But whatever way we can find to investigate the crimes of Franco is a good thing\".But, he added, \"Nothing is going to change, because the [Spanish] government is not going to collaborate with the Argentinian justice system. I will be very interested to know know what explanations they will give for protecting these four criminals. Spain is a country with a culture of impunity, as much in cases of corruption as these examples of torture under Franco.\"The cases involve several people killed or \"disappeared\" by death squads in the early days of the Spanish civil war in 1936, when Franco helped lead a rightwing uprising against the democratically elected government. But some cases extend deep into the fourth decade of his dictatorship, including that of Silvia Carretero, arrested and allegedly tortured in 1975, and her husband, Jos\u00e9 Luis S\u00e1nchez Bravo, who was shot by firing squad after he was found guilty of killing a police officer. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Spain", "Extradition", "Law", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina calls for extradition of Francoists over human rights abuses"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-08-06T06:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Arrival was like the opening of a Sergio Leone epic. We had been driving for hours up a long, spectacular valley: great slashes of red rock strata knifed into folded grey mountains and a sparkling river snaked along the dusty valley. At one point we entered a sleepy town square where many houses had blackboards outside declaring what was for sale inside. We bought tamales, delicious hot corn dough wrapped around meat or cheese \u2013 no vegetables, of course; no self-respecting Argentinian would eat a vegetable unless under doctor's orders, and what do those quacks know?Further up the valley a small fox with big ears scuttled across the road then stopped to watch us. He was only 20m away, quite unperturbed, looking like he'd come over if we called his name. It was only later that I\u00a0remembered his curious lack of fear.The houses on this stretch of northern Argentina's Calchaquies valley are often abandoned, with unbuttoned thatch tumbling over their porches. A pair of vultures hung on a thermal above. As things became even more desiccated, we came around a gravelly bluff and arrived at a clutch of single-storey adobe buildings gathered around a pile of sleeping dogs. One of them got up, wagged his tail, then flumped back down again, exhausted. Nothing else moved. I resisted the desire to whistle a Morricone theme.While Edgar, my guide, went off to find our hosts, I climbed the gravelly bluff, followed by a loping hound who appeared to be grinning at me. (I found out later he was nicknamed Sonrisa \u2013 or Smile.) The view from 100m above the tiny settlement was a shock: the stark beauty of serrated stacks of ridges contrasting with a lush valley, where flocks of tiny doves were surfing along swelling ranks of vines. This place obviously had some secret charms.Hosts Ernesto and Raquel \u2013 he a tall, handsome horseman; she, small and energetic \u2013 were already setting the lunch table in the shady porch. The next few days were to be a homestay run by a collective called Red de Turismo Campesino. I was a little anxious at that moment: in this barren moonscape, what could a visitor do except doze in a hammock and wait for Clint Eastwood to stroll through the saloon doors? Except there were no saloons in sight, nor even a shop.Ernesto asked if my partner, Sophie, and I would like to see the vineyards before lunch, so we set down the valley. In the deep shade of the trees a new world opened up: rabbits hopped among the chickens, while wild birds flitted around. Their apparent tameness reminded me of the fox.\"We've never hunted this area,\" said Ernesto. \"So everything comes close \u2013 apart from the puma.\"There were fruit trees here and a few hectares of vines. Attempting to establish some common ground, I told Ernesto about my collection back home of small tropical and sub-tropical trees \u2013 avocado, mandarin, banana and lemon, all grown from seed, and not one fruit from any of them in years. What should I do?\"Graft on them,\" he laughed, and pointed up the track. \"Don't worry about that. Come and see the horses.\"Ernesto's horse was the tamest I'd ever seen. At a whispered command and a gentle push, it would lie down and stay silent. \"It's a local tradition to teach a horse this trick \u2013 from the days when we fought the Spanish.\"It was a reminder of the complex history here. The local tribe, the Diaguita, were conquered by the Incas 100 years before the Spanish arrived and tore into the local culture like wolves (quite literally: they ripped out the tongues of those who refused to speak Spanish). With treatment like that the Diaguita language and culture were almost obliterated, but connections and ancestral pride linger. By the 1990s many people had moved away but, like Ernesto, some were moving back, eager to reconnect with the land. At the same time parts of the valley, especially further south, were being taken over by multinational winery businesses. Locals were responding with demonstrations and movements such as this tourism network, trying to keep local hands on the land and revive traditional skills.Back at the house the table was groaning under plates of food (meat, mainly) and several neighbours \u2013 Walter, Fernando and Nelson \u2013 had turned up, each with a couple of bottles of their own wine. It was, I predicted, going to be a long lunch. The cool of the veranda was lovely. The people were friendly. But I expected the wine to be as rough as a donkey's armpit. The point, I'd thought, was to support these small producers until they could make something halfway decent and at least compete at the bottom of the market.\"I only do about 1,000 bottles a year,\" said Walter, handing me a glass. \"Try this malbec. I named it after my Dad.\" I noted the amateurish label. But with the first taste came realisation that I had badly misjudged. The wine was glorious, with rich, smooth flavours.Fernando poured another red, a mix of criolla, malbec and cabernet grapes that his late father had devised and he had perfected. \"It won a gold medal in the national championships,\" he said, proudly \u2013 and justifiably, as I soon discovered. While that was slipping down very acceptably, Nelson was pouring from an unlabelled bottle.\"I'm just starting to make wine,\" he said. \"I moved back home from the city two years ago.\"\"Are you happy?\"The others all started laughing. \"Does he look unhappy?\"It was true. I'd rarely seen a human being who looked quite so contented as Nelson.A couple of hours and several empty bottles later, they all stood up and stretched. Siesta, I thought, wrongly.\"OK, we want to show you why we love this place.\"We piled into Nelson's truck, drove for 10\u00a0minutes up the track, then got out and walked to the river. The location was spectacular: huge, jagged crags all around and a river coursing through, wide as a football pitch. The men threw off their shoes and waded in up to their waists. \"Come on! We're going to show you the rock paintings.\"The water was icy, rapidly clearing any red-wine fuzziness. On the other side we entered a secret world of narrow, twisting canyons that led to ancient rock art, a vestige of the Diaguita era. On the way back we were treated to a theatrical sunset as successive ridges of mountains briefly burned up with the last rays and then faded to purple.That evening, Ernesto taught me the esoteric art of the asado, the Argentinian barbecue. First lesson: if one man can carry the meat, there isn't\u00a0enough.\"Do you have any cows?\" asked Nelson. \"What about horses? Vineyards? How many types of fruit do you grow?\"My one small dog, Wilf, and my handful of sterile fruit trees did not impress him. I could have happily spent some days here, learning about wine-making, but next day Edgar and I\u00a0set out again, this time to stay in the house of Soledad Qutipa, a local potter and horsewoman. She lives under a mountain called El Zorrito, where the last Inca emperor, Atahualpa, is rumoured to have hidden his treasure.Inside Soledad's lovely adobe house were numerous strange terracotta figurines, her tributes to the Earth Mother, Pachamama, who despite five centuries of catholicism still reigns supreme here. The use of adobe in buildings, for example, continues as a mark of respect to her: when villages are abandoned they slowly disappear back into the earth, leaving no trace.As soon as we arrived, I was given a lesson in making local favourite humitas, a delicious stodge of corn, onion, basil, cheese and peppers. When they were ready, Soledad took us outside to eat.\"Do you want to visit Los Colorados?\" she asked. \"It's where I find the clay for my pots, up there under El Zorrito.\"The last humita finished, we went to meet her neighbour, Antonio, whose horses are a crossbreed of local mustang and Peruvian paso, the latter renowned for having a strange ambling gait instead of a trot. For me, who finds horses as comfortable as cars with square wheels, this proved a\u00a0hit. On these easy-going animals we blasted through the sparse, aromatic bush, eventually entering a gorge which led into a silent world of twisting, narrow slot canyons. It felt like some ancient fossilised casbah inhabited only by owls. I picked up a pellet filled with the skulls of tiny, long-toothed rodents.This magical and mysterious place had been discovered by Soledad's mother when, as a child, she had come in search of a lost sheep.On the way back, Soledad explained her interest in pottery. \"It's a traditional art here, dating from before the Spanish. I like to use ancient symbols like toad, sury (a flightless bird), snake and owl. When I'm making pots, time passes and I don't notice. It's very satisfying.\"At the house, Soledad took out her bags of clay and showed me how she makes a traditional Diaguita jug with handle, making it look deceptively easy. Afterwards we drank herbal tea (mate) from jars she had made, then I\u00a0sat under a vault of stars and watched meteorites running down the Milky Way like beads of quicksilver.Community-based tourism is not a simple matter. In my experience, the goal of a balanced cultural exchange can easily be destroyed by too much emphasis on the tourist dollar, or by the local culture being too weak or uninteresting. Here in the Calchaquies valley they have got it about right, with strong local characters bringing energy and passion to the task. They were asking me almost as many questions as I did of them.I spent my final day amid wineland near the town of Cafayate, which is also home to some intriguing communities. A few miles outside the town, approachable only by walking across a deep gorge, we found the idyllic oasis of El Divisadero, presided over by a formidable 80-year-old, Teresa Guti\u00e9rrez. Acres of vineyards and fruit trees are tended by an extended family of 12 sons, 56 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. Visitor accommodation is a stone cabin on an outcrop, with stunning views up the valley. Hummingbirds flitted among the flowers and black eagles soared overhead.I sat with Enrique, one of the sons, and ate his mother's unbeatable empanadas, meat pasties, fresh from the earth oven.\"The tourism co-operative has worked well for us,\" he said, \"They brought us piped water and latrines. Next we want electricity and a bridge.\"He pointed out various trees: \"That's a cross between orange and lemon that we made. That's a small white peach \u2013 delicious.\"There were figs, apples and avocados too, as well as grapes: malbec, cabernet and local speciality torrontes. It was time to broach the subject of my sterile fruit garden again. \"Enrique,\" I said, \"I once grew a lemon tree from a seed and it's now 10\u00a0years old and hasn't produced a single fruit. What do I do?\"He tipped back his hat and gravely drained the red wine from his tumbler. \"Have you made offerings of coca leaves to Pachamama?\" I had to admit I had not.\"Then you must,\" he admonished.\"And give her some wine too.\"\"And if that doesn't work?\"He grinned. \"Then beat the tree.\"The cultural exchange, I felt, was complete. Next spring, my back garden will witness some unusual ceremonies.Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to Buenos Aires from London airports with KLM\u00a0from \u00a3699Kevin travelled with Sumak Travel (020-3642 4246, sumak-travel.org), which specialises in community-based ecotourism to Latin America. A nine-day private tour, including guide, accommodation, all breakfasts and most other meals, internal transfers, activities, wine tastings and\u00a0contributions to the social projects\u00a0visited, but not international flights, costs from \u00a3985pp, based on two sharing", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Adventure travel", "Horse riding holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Homestays in Argentina: how ethical holidays are protecting a way of life"},{"date": "2013-07-03T14:49:23Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Forced to land in Vienna, left waiting on the tarmac for and only allowed to leave after half a day \u2013 the treatment of Evo Morales has stirred up fury in Latin America, a region that has long bristled at the bullying of the US and double standards of its former colonial masters in Europe.Bolivia has denounced what it calls a \"kidnap\" operation of its president by imperial powers that violates the Vienna convention and its national sovereignty. Venezuela, Argentina, Ecuador and Uruguay have joined in the condemnation. Angry headlines have been splashed on newspapers across the region.Ecuador's foreign minister, Ricardo Pati\u00f1o Aroca, said his country would stand with Bolivia. \"We will not allow this affront against a Latin American leader,\" he tweeted.The secretary general of the Organisation of American States, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Insulza, expressed his \"profound displeasure\" with the countries who refused to allow Morales's plane through their airspace.\"Nothing justifies an action as disrespectful to the highest authority of a country,\" Insulza said in a statement.Peru reportedly called for an emergency meetingon Wednesday of another regional grouping, the Union of South American Nations (Unasur).\"Tomorrow is going to be a long and difficult day,\" tweeted the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Tuesday night, saying the level of impunity for Morales' treatment was unprecedented. Venezuela is furious and the Uruguayan president, Jos\u00e9 Mujica, is said to be indignant.The United States has yet to comment, but the longer it remains silent, the stronger suspicions will be that it leaned on France, Spain, Portugal and Italy to deny permission for Morales's plane to fly through their airspace, in effect putting the hunt for US whistleblower Edward Snowden above international law and the rights of a president of a sovereign nation.Politicians and commentators in the region are already adding the action to a long list of interventions, invasions and \"policing actions\" by Latin America's giant northern neighbour, alongside the Monroe Doctrine, the annexation of half of Mexico, the Bay of Pigs invasion, support for Chile's Augusto Pinochet and other dictators and the ousting of democratically elected leftist governments in Guatemala, Nicaragua, Honduras and elsewhere.Europe has been accused of reopening historical scars by abetting in the detention of Bolivia's first indigenous president.\"Just as they did 500 years ago, foreign powers have once again mistreated and assaulted the Bolivian people,\" the country's vice-president, \u00c1lvaro Garc\u00eda Linera, said.Ecuador was expected to provide further evidence of intrusiveness and interference at a press conference later on Wednesday, when the foreign minister said he would provide evidence of a bug that was discovered at its London embassy, where the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has been taking refuge for a year.Ecuador had also looked a likely destination for Snowden, though its president, Rafael Correa, appears to have cooled on the idea in recent days. Many attribute his change of tone to a phonecall from the US vice-president, Joe Biden, which reportedly included a reminder that Ecuador uses the US dollar as its currency. For some commentators, this was a veiled threat.Conscious of the growing importance of the Latino vote in the US, the president, Barack Obama, has tried to bolster his reputation in the region by making immigration reform one of the priorities of his second term.But his secretary of state, John Kerry, upset many in Latin America earlier this year, when he referred to the region as the US \"backyard\" \u2013 a term that has long been seen as a sign of US imperialistic tendencies. In response, Bolivia expelled USAid, a development agency.Spain, France, Portugal and Italy reportedly denied permission for Morales's plane to fly through their airspace, in effect forcing it to make an unscheduled stop in Vienna, where Austrian authorities inspected the plane.\"So many beautiful masks fell. As always, in times of crisis you learn the truth behind the speeches,\" tweeted Pati\u00f1o. He then praised a comment about the solidarity of Latin America, which has built closer regional ties in recent years. \"Unasur today must prove to the European Union the true meaning of Latin American integration,\" he wrote.\u2022 This article was amended on 4 July 2013. The original referred to Evo Morales as Latin America's first indigenous president. That should have been Bolivia's first indigenous president, and has been corrected.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Evo Morales", "Americas", "Edward Snowden", "Venezuela", "Argentina", "Ecuador", "Uruguay", "World news"], "title": "Bolivian president's treatment stirs up fury in Latin America"},{"date": "2013-09-19T18:38:55Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has called for the extradition of four Spanish former officials accused of torturing victims of the Franco regime in a decision described as historic by the lawyers and human rights activists who brought the case.As in the case of Augusto Pinochet \u2013 the former Chilean dictator whose arrest was ordered by Spanish judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n in 1998 \u2013 an Argentinian judge issued warrants for the four men under an international law allowing human rights abuses to be investigated and tried elsewhere if the country in which they occurred does not do so.\"It is an historic moment for thousands of victims of the Franco regime. The impunity which has covered up these crimes for so many years has finally been breached. We have a long way to go, but we are now on track,\" said Maria Arcenegui Siemens, spokeswoman for Ceaqua, a support group for the victims.The alleged abuses took place between 1936 and 1977, and include crimes allegedly committed by Jos\u00e9 Antonio Gonz\u00e1lez Pacheco, known as \"Billy the Kid\", said to have been one of the most sadistic of the dictator's henchmen. He and his fellow accused, Jes\u00fas Aguilar, Celso Galv\u00e1n Abascal and Jos\u00e9 Ignacio Giralte, are in their 60s and 70s and live in Spain.Garz\u00f3n previously employed the same legal principle of universal jurisdiction to prosecute the Argentinian navy captain Adolfo Scilingo in Madrid in 2005. Scilingo, who threw prisoners to their death from planes, was convicted of crimes against humanity and jailed for a total of 640 years. Garz\u00f3n has led the push to have Franco's crimes investigated in Spain, but so far without success.Spanish amnesty laws, brought in in 1977 as the country made the transition from dictatorship to democracy, prevent its courts from investigating crimes committed by the authorities before 1976. General Franco died in 1975. After the victims of Franco failed to get redress in the Spanish courts, they took their cases to Argentina in 2010. Argentinian judge Mar\u00eda Servini de Cubr\u00eda Servini petitioned Spain to look into the alleged torture, but has now taken matters into her own hands, declaring her court competent to try the cases.Emilio Silva, president of the Commission for the Recovery of the Historic Memory, described himself as \"very happy\" about her decision, but said that it was \"a shame that it hadn't already happened in Spain. But whatever way we can find to investigate the crimes of Franco is a good thing\".But, he added, \"Nothing is going to change, because the [Spanish] government is not going to collaborate with the Argentinian justice system. I will be very interested to know know what explanations they will give for protecting these four criminals. Spain is a country with a culture of impunity, as much in cases of corruption as these examples of torture under Franco.\"The cases involve several people killed or \"disappeared\" by death squads in the early days of the Spanish civil war in 1936, when Franco helped lead a rightwing uprising against the democratically elected government. But some cases extend deep into the fourth decade of his dictatorship, including that of Silvia Carretero, arrested and allegedly tortured in 1975, and her husband, Jos\u00e9 Luis S\u00e1nchez Bravo, who was shot by firing squad after he was found guilty of killing a police officer. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Spain", "Extradition", "Law", "Europe", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina calls for extradition of Francoists over human rights abuses"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-08-06T06:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Arrival was like the opening of a Sergio Leone epic. We had been driving for hours up a long, spectacular valley: great slashes of red rock strata knifed into folded grey mountains and a sparkling river snaked along the dusty valley. At one point we entered a sleepy town square where many houses had blackboards outside declaring what was for sale inside. We bought tamales, delicious hot corn dough wrapped around meat or cheese \u2013 no vegetables, of course; no self-respecting Argentinian would eat a vegetable unless under doctor's orders, and what do those quacks know?Further up the valley a small fox with big ears scuttled across the road then stopped to watch us. He was only 20m away, quite unperturbed, looking like he'd come over if we called his name. It was only later that I\u00a0remembered his curious lack of fear.The houses on this stretch of northern Argentina's Calchaquies valley are often abandoned, with unbuttoned thatch tumbling over their porches. A pair of vultures hung on a thermal above. As things became even more desiccated, we came around a gravelly bluff and arrived at a clutch of single-storey adobe buildings gathered around a pile of sleeping dogs. One of them got up, wagged his tail, then flumped back down again, exhausted. Nothing else moved. I resisted the desire to whistle a Morricone theme.While Edgar, my guide, went off to find our hosts, I climbed the gravelly bluff, followed by a loping hound who appeared to be grinning at me. (I found out later he was nicknamed Sonrisa \u2013 or Smile.) The view from 100m above the tiny settlement was a shock: the stark beauty of serrated stacks of ridges contrasting with a lush valley, where flocks of tiny doves were surfing along swelling ranks of vines. This place obviously had some secret charms.Hosts Ernesto and Raquel \u2013 he a tall, handsome horseman; she, small and energetic \u2013 were already setting the lunch table in the shady porch. The next few days were to be a homestay run by a collective called Red de Turismo Campesino. I was a little anxious at that moment: in this barren moonscape, what could a visitor do except doze in a hammock and wait for Clint Eastwood to stroll through the saloon doors? Except there were no saloons in sight, nor even a shop.Ernesto asked if my partner, Sophie, and I would like to see the vineyards before lunch, so we set down the valley. In the deep shade of the trees a new world opened up: rabbits hopped among the chickens, while wild birds flitted around. Their apparent tameness reminded me of the fox.\"We've never hunted this area,\" said Ernesto. \"So everything comes close \u2013 apart from the puma.\"There were fruit trees here and a few hectares of vines. Attempting to establish some common ground, I told Ernesto about my collection back home of small tropical and sub-tropical trees \u2013 avocado, mandarin, banana and lemon, all grown from seed, and not one fruit from any of them in years. What should I do?\"Graft on them,\" he laughed, and pointed up the track. \"Don't worry about that. Come and see the horses.\"Ernesto's horse was the tamest I'd ever seen. At a whispered command and a gentle push, it would lie down and stay silent. \"It's a local tradition to teach a horse this trick \u2013 from the days when we fought the Spanish.\"It was a reminder of the complex history here. The local tribe, the Diaguita, were conquered by the Incas 100 years before the Spanish arrived and tore into the local culture like wolves (quite literally: they ripped out the tongues of those who refused to speak Spanish). With treatment like that the Diaguita language and culture were almost obliterated, but connections and ancestral pride linger. By the 1990s many people had moved away but, like Ernesto, some were moving back, eager to reconnect with the land. At the same time parts of the valley, especially further south, were being taken over by multinational winery businesses. Locals were responding with demonstrations and movements such as this tourism network, trying to keep local hands on the land and revive traditional skills.Back at the house the table was groaning under plates of food (meat, mainly) and several neighbours \u2013 Walter, Fernando and Nelson \u2013 had turned up, each with a couple of bottles of their own wine. It was, I predicted, going to be a long lunch. The cool of the veranda was lovely. The people were friendly. But I expected the wine to be as rough as a donkey's armpit. The point, I'd thought, was to support these small producers until they could make something halfway decent and at least compete at the bottom of the market.\"I only do about 1,000 bottles a year,\" said Walter, handing me a glass. \"Try this malbec. I named it after my Dad.\" I noted the amateurish label. But with the first taste came realisation that I had badly misjudged. The wine was glorious, with rich, smooth flavours.Fernando poured another red, a mix of criolla, malbec and cabernet grapes that his late father had devised and he had perfected. \"It won a gold medal in the national championships,\" he said, proudly \u2013 and justifiably, as I soon discovered. While that was slipping down very acceptably, Nelson was pouring from an unlabelled bottle.\"I'm just starting to make wine,\" he said. \"I moved back home from the city two years ago.\"\"Are you happy?\"The others all started laughing. \"Does he look unhappy?\"It was true. I'd rarely seen a human being who looked quite so contented as Nelson.A couple of hours and several empty bottles later, they all stood up and stretched. Siesta, I thought, wrongly.\"OK, we want to show you why we love this place.\"We piled into Nelson's truck, drove for 10\u00a0minutes up the track, then got out and walked to the river. The location was spectacular: huge, jagged crags all around and a river coursing through, wide as a football pitch. The men threw off their shoes and waded in up to their waists. \"Come on! We're going to show you the rock paintings.\"The water was icy, rapidly clearing any red-wine fuzziness. On the other side we entered a secret world of narrow, twisting canyons that led to ancient rock art, a vestige of the Diaguita era. On the way back we were treated to a theatrical sunset as successive ridges of mountains briefly burned up with the last rays and then faded to purple.That evening, Ernesto taught me the esoteric art of the asado, the Argentinian barbecue. First lesson: if one man can carry the meat, there isn't\u00a0enough.\"Do you have any cows?\" asked Nelson. \"What about horses? Vineyards? How many types of fruit do you grow?\"My one small dog, Wilf, and my handful of sterile fruit trees did not impress him. I could have happily spent some days here, learning about wine-making, but next day Edgar and I\u00a0set out again, this time to stay in the house of Soledad Qutipa, a local potter and horsewoman. She lives under a mountain called El Zorrito, where the last Inca emperor, Atahualpa, is rumoured to have hidden his treasure.Inside Soledad's lovely adobe house were numerous strange terracotta figurines, her tributes to the Earth Mother, Pachamama, who despite five centuries of catholicism still reigns supreme here. The use of adobe in buildings, for example, continues as a mark of respect to her: when villages are abandoned they slowly disappear back into the earth, leaving no trace.As soon as we arrived, I was given a lesson in making local favourite humitas, a delicious stodge of corn, onion, basil, cheese and peppers. When they were ready, Soledad took us outside to eat.\"Do you want to visit Los Colorados?\" she asked. \"It's where I find the clay for my pots, up there under El Zorrito.\"The last humita finished, we went to meet her neighbour, Antonio, whose horses are a crossbreed of local mustang and Peruvian paso, the latter renowned for having a strange ambling gait instead of a trot. For me, who finds horses as comfortable as cars with square wheels, this proved a\u00a0hit. On these easy-going animals we blasted through the sparse, aromatic bush, eventually entering a gorge which led into a silent world of twisting, narrow slot canyons. It felt like some ancient fossilised casbah inhabited only by owls. I picked up a pellet filled with the skulls of tiny, long-toothed rodents.This magical and mysterious place had been discovered by Soledad's mother when, as a child, she had come in search of a lost sheep.On the way back, Soledad explained her interest in pottery. \"It's a traditional art here, dating from before the Spanish. I like to use ancient symbols like toad, sury (a flightless bird), snake and owl. When I'm making pots, time passes and I don't notice. It's very satisfying.\"At the house, Soledad took out her bags of clay and showed me how she makes a traditional Diaguita jug with handle, making it look deceptively easy. Afterwards we drank herbal tea (mate) from jars she had made, then I\u00a0sat under a vault of stars and watched meteorites running down the Milky Way like beads of quicksilver.Community-based tourism is not a simple matter. In my experience, the goal of a balanced cultural exchange can easily be destroyed by too much emphasis on the tourist dollar, or by the local culture being too weak or uninteresting. Here in the Calchaquies valley they have got it about right, with strong local characters bringing energy and passion to the task. They were asking me almost as many questions as I did of them.I spent my final day amid wineland near the town of Cafayate, which is also home to some intriguing communities. A few miles outside the town, approachable only by walking across a deep gorge, we found the idyllic oasis of El Divisadero, presided over by a formidable 80-year-old, Teresa Guti\u00e9rrez. Acres of vineyards and fruit trees are tended by an extended family of 12 sons, 56 grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren. Visitor accommodation is a stone cabin on an outcrop, with stunning views up the valley. Hummingbirds flitted among the flowers and black eagles soared overhead.I sat with Enrique, one of the sons, and ate his mother's unbeatable empanadas, meat pasties, fresh from the earth oven.\"The tourism co-operative has worked well for us,\" he said, \"They brought us piped water and latrines. Next we want electricity and a bridge.\"He pointed out various trees: \"That's a cross between orange and lemon that we made. That's a small white peach \u2013 delicious.\"There were figs, apples and avocados too, as well as grapes: malbec, cabernet and local speciality torrontes. It was time to broach the subject of my sterile fruit garden again. \"Enrique,\" I said, \"I once grew a lemon tree from a seed and it's now 10\u00a0years old and hasn't produced a single fruit. What do I do?\"He tipped back his hat and gravely drained the red wine from his tumbler. \"Have you made offerings of coca leaves to Pachamama?\" I had to admit I had not.\"Then you must,\" he admonished.\"And give her some wine too.\"\"And if that doesn't work?\"He grinned. \"Then beat the tree.\"The cultural exchange, I felt, was complete. Next spring, my back garden will witness some unusual ceremonies.Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to Buenos Aires from London airports with KLM\u00a0from \u00a3699Kevin travelled with Sumak Travel (020-3642 4246, sumak-travel.org), which specialises in community-based ecotourism to Latin America. A nine-day private tour, including guide, accommodation, all breakfasts and most other meals, internal transfers, activities, wine tastings and\u00a0contributions to the social projects\u00a0visited, but not international flights, costs from \u00a3985pp, based on two sharing", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Adventure travel", "Horse riding holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Homestays in Argentina: how ethical holidays are protecting a way of life"},{"date": "2013-07-03T14:49:23Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Forced to land in Vienna, left waiting on the tarmac for and only allowed to leave after half a day \u2013 the treatment of Evo Morales has stirred up fury in Latin America, a region that has long bristled at the bullying of the US and double standards of its former colonial masters in Europe.Bolivia has denounced what it calls a \"kidnap\" operation of its president by imperial powers that violates the Vienna convention and its national sovereignty. Venezuela, Argentina, Ecuador and Uruguay have joined in the condemnation. Angry headlines have been splashed on newspapers across the region.Ecuador's foreign minister, Ricardo Pati\u00f1o Aroca, said his country would stand with Bolivia. \"We will not allow this affront against a Latin American leader,\" he tweeted.The secretary general of the Organisation of American States, Jos\u00e9 Miguel Insulza, expressed his \"profound displeasure\" with the countries who refused to allow Morales's plane through their airspace.\"Nothing justifies an action as disrespectful to the highest authority of a country,\" Insulza said in a statement.Peru reportedly called for an emergency meetingon Wednesday of another regional grouping, the Union of South American Nations (Unasur).\"Tomorrow is going to be a long and difficult day,\" tweeted the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Tuesday night, saying the level of impunity for Morales' treatment was unprecedented. Venezuela is furious and the Uruguayan president, Jos\u00e9 Mujica, is said to be indignant.The United States has yet to comment, but the longer it remains silent, the stronger suspicions will be that it leaned on France, Spain, Portugal and Italy to deny permission for Morales's plane to fly through their airspace, in effect putting the hunt for US whistleblower Edward Snowden above international law and the rights of a president of a sovereign nation.Politicians and commentators in the region are already adding the action to a long list of interventions, invasions and \"policing actions\" by Latin America's giant northern neighbour, alongside the Monroe Doctrine, the annexation of half of Mexico, the Bay of Pigs invasion, support for Chile's Augusto Pinochet and other dictators and the ousting of democratically elected leftist governments in Guatemala, Nicaragua, Honduras and elsewhere.Europe has been accused of reopening historical scars by abetting in the detention of Bolivia's first indigenous president.\"Just as they did 500 years ago, foreign powers have once again mistreated and assaulted the Bolivian people,\" the country's vice-president, \u00c1lvaro Garc\u00eda Linera, said.Ecuador was expected to provide further evidence of intrusiveness and interference at a press conference later on Wednesday, when the foreign minister said he would provide evidence of a bug that was discovered at its London embassy, where the WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange has been taking refuge for a year.Ecuador had also looked a likely destination for Snowden, though its president, Rafael Correa, appears to have cooled on the idea in recent days. Many attribute his change of tone to a phonecall from the US vice-president, Joe Biden, which reportedly included a reminder that Ecuador uses the US dollar as its currency. For some commentators, this was a veiled threat.Conscious of the growing importance of the Latino vote in the US, the president, Barack Obama, has tried to bolster his reputation in the region by making immigration reform one of the priorities of his second term.But his secretary of state, John Kerry, upset many in Latin America earlier this year, when he referred to the region as the US \"backyard\" \u2013 a term that has long been seen as a sign of US imperialistic tendencies. In response, Bolivia expelled USAid, a development agency.Spain, France, Portugal and Italy reportedly denied permission for Morales's plane to fly through their airspace, in effect forcing it to make an unscheduled stop in Vienna, where Austrian authorities inspected the plane.\"So many beautiful masks fell. As always, in times of crisis you learn the truth behind the speeches,\" tweeted Pati\u00f1o. He then praised a comment about the solidarity of Latin America, which has built closer regional ties in recent years. \"Unasur today must prove to the European Union the true meaning of Latin American integration,\" he wrote.\u2022 This article was amended on 4 July 2013. The original referred to Evo Morales as Latin America's first indigenous president. That should have been Bolivia's first indigenous president, and has been corrected.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Evo Morales", "Americas", "Edward Snowden", "Venezuela", "Argentina", "Ecuador", "Uruguay", "World news"], "title": "Bolivian president's treatment stirs up fury in Latin America"},{"date": "2013-08-13T17:23:35Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "One is a confirmed ascetic who favours a simple wardrobe and putters around in Fiats. The other is a flamboyant showman who delights in peroxide mohicans and driving a variety of fast cars \u2013 most notably, perhaps, an army camouflage Bentley Continental GT.All the indications were, therefore, that Pope Francis and Mario Balotelli might not have a great deal in common. But when the 76-year-old head of the Catholic church met the AC Milan striker in the Vatican on Tuesday , they may just have found something to bond over.After an address to the combined forces of the Italian and Argentinian football squads, Francis reportedly joked to Balotelli about his own \u2013 relatively mild \u2013 reputation for rule-breaking. \"Here in the Vatican they scold me for being undisciplined but you can see what country I come from,\" he said \u2013 alluding, according to Ansa, to the scrum formed by the Argentinian players while the Italians formed a queue. It was not clear whether he was also referring to Balotelli's tendency for spontaneous behaviour, such as allowing fireworks to be set off in his bathroom and gate-crashing press conferences.On Monday the former Manchester City star had said that his conversation with the former archbishop of Buenos Aires would \"remain between us\".But, with usual reticence, he added that he would \"say something important about religion\" to the pope \u2013 and hoped that he would, in turn, wish him a happy birthday. Balotelli has just turned 23.Due to a knee injury, the Italian was thought unlikely to play in the friendly \u2013 held in the pope's honour \u2013 on Wednesday. Also absent from the Stadio Olimpico will be Lionel Messi, the FC Barcelona forward, who has a thigh strain. However, the Argentinian captain said the audience with Francis had made for a special day. \"It is an honour to be here and to have met the pope. He's Argentinian and this makes him even more special for us,\" he said.Francis \u2013 a football fan and passionate supporter of the Buenos Aires club San Lorenzo de Almagro \u2013 admitted he would find it \"a bit hard\" to know who to cheer for in the match, at which he is not expected to be present. But he showed no unease when talking to the players and club delegates, urging them to remember their responsibilities as role models in society.\"You, dear players, are very popular: people follow you closely, not only when you are on the pitch but off it as well. This is a social responsibility,\" he said. Football stars, he added, should be a reference point for good behaviour and give an example of \"loyalty, respect and altruism\".Speaking in a mixture of Italian and Spanish, Francis also called on the clubs and players to reclaim the values of amateur sport, which he said were \"generosity, camaraderie and beauty\", adding: \"Sport is important, but it has to be true sport.\"Football, like other disciplines, has become big business,\" he said, adding separately: \"It's true that national and international organisations are professionalising sport, and it has to be thus, but this professional aspect must never ignore the initial vocation of a sportsman or a squad: to be an amateur. A sportsman, when he cultivates this amateur aspect, does good to society.\"", "tags": ["Pope Francis", "Mario Balotelli", "Italy", "Argentina", "Religion", "Italy", "Argentina", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "World news", "Football", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Pope Francis the free spirit meets Mario Balotelli the maverick"},{"date": "2013-11-09T16:26:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": " 4.26pm GMT That probably wasn't quite as comfortable as the scoreline suggests for England, after Argentina made life uncomfortable for them for a good half hour in the second half. The visitors never really had the quality to come back from a first half pasting and threaten the final result, but England will need a similar improvement to have a chance agains the world's best side next weekend.There were positives for England though. The first half performance was slick and fan-pleasing, and the number of chances they created from the lineout was encouraging. The defence held up well too, but too many penalties were conceded and the Richie McCaw-led All Blacks will present a much sterner challenge at the breakdown.Join me again in ten minutes or so for Wales v South Africa. Thanks again for all your e-mails and Tweets. Bye! 4.21pm GMT 80 min\u00a0 That's hilarious from Parling as he runs right around to the wrong side of the ruck and lays between the Argentine scrum half's legs as he reaches in and tries to fish the ball out. The ref tells him where to go and Argentina give up, booting the ball out to end the match. 4.19pm GMT 79 min\u00a0Ashton tries a mini-grubber akin to Will Genia's for Australia in the first Lion's Test this summer. It doesn't come off but we go back for a penalty. England win the lineout and spread it, where Foden bursts and offloads inside to his old Northampton mate Ashton. Argentina turn it over and look to run from their own 22 as the clock goes red. England put the pressure on them on their own line. 4.16pm GMT Parling wins the lineout and Farrell takes it into contact. Morgan picks it up and runs straight through the ruck/Argentina's excuse for a defence and dots down under the posts. Easy as you like for Morgan and the same goes for Farrell's conversion.Updated at 4.17pm GMT 4.15pm GMT 77 min\u00a0The Pumas were on top at scrum time earlier, but Corbisiero has made all the difference and wins another penalty at the scrum. Farrell finds touch on the 22. 4.15pm GMT 76 min\u00a0A drinks break now as we wait for a scrum and Dylan Hartley is deservedly named Man of the Match. Here's my new friend Alan Lovell:\"I'll be back in the cold next week but the bright spot is I will actually be able to see the Engv NZ game.No ticket though..............do you need someone to carry your kit into the ground?.........and get the drinks............and.............\"HAHAHA you think the bosses actually let me go to the game? This MBM comes to you live from Guardian Towers I'm afraid. But sure, if you want to come and make me coffee. 4.12pm GMT 74 min\u00a0Cordeno shows Ashton a clean set of heels but the Saracens man does well to recover and scrag the winger who was about to fly. Not literally, obviously. Although that would be a billion times better to watch than this soporific rubbish. The ball is spending about six hours in every single ruck. 4.10pm GMT Odd decision to give it to the 50/50 man Bosch given Sanchez has already kicked one from further than out. It's dragged left of the posts from right in front 35m out. 4.09pm GMT 72 min\u00a0Another penalty against Tom Wood, who has played well apart from that whole \"gifting Argentina a sheload of shots at goal\" thing. Bosch will have another shot at goal to get them within 9. 4.07pm GMT 71 min\u00a0The scrum is a mess with both sides boring in from all kinds of angles. The result is a penalty to England with which Farrell clears his lines well. The lineout though is overthrown woefully by Youngs. 4.07pm GMT ...says Sky's Miles Harrison of next week's game against the All Blacks. He's lying though, because you could win one by entering our competition. How's that for salesmanship? 4.05pm GMT 69 min\u00a0England lineout but Argentina steal it. They pick and go slowly but Macome is well tackled and coughs the ball up. 4.04pm GMT 68 min\u00a0Great kick ahead has Foden in two minds and he allows the ball to bobble into touch near the England line. The remainder of this MBM may be a bit short on detail as I'm busy gouging my own eyes out. 4.02pm GMT 67 min\u00a0England win a penalty when it should be an Argentina lineout as the touch judge misses Robshaw's foot in touch. Farrell lumps the ball into touch in goal. Ugh. 4.01pm GMT 65 min\u00a0England pass it into midfield and Flood but he's stopped 10m out and holds on. Amorosino misses touch with the penalty though and back come England. Slowly and laterally. 4.00pm GMT 64 min\u00a0Argentina off their feet at a ruck and England have a penalty on the right-hand touchline near halfway. Farrell's touch finder is excellent and England have a lineout in the 22. The bad news is Tom Youngs is on to throw in. And crikey, he actually finds Parling in the middle of the line! 3.59pm GMT 63 min\u00a0Joel Tomkins hoofs it from midfield into the in goal area. It's like watching Stoke, is what you feel the the crowd are moments from singing. 3.58pm GMT 62 min\u00a0Alan Lovell just e-mailed me to suggest getting Flood on for Twelvetrees in order to inject a bit of creativity into the back line. Did he e-mail Stuart Lancaster as well? Because that's exactly what England have done. The backs have been very poor since Dickson went off. 3.56pm GMT 61 min\u00a0Yawn. Argentina drive, England's defence doesn't give an inch. That's about all we've had this half. 3.55pm GMT 59 min\u00a0Argentina kick ahead to Ashton who looks to run before realising he hasn't got any space. He should take the tackle but throws an idiotic offload to thin air and England are lucky to retain the ball. Since half time England have been aimless and a bit pants. It's like the first half of the Australia game again. 3.53pm GMT It's a horrible looking kick and bounces back off the bar. 3.52pm GMT 57 min\u00a0Great chase from Foden to claim the kick off and he somehow wins England a lineout. England claim and although Cubelli rips it and runs he does so illegally and England are awarded a penalty 35m out on the left touchline. Farrell will be looking to impeded Argentina's momentum and kick at goal. 3.51pm GMT Another good kick from Sanchez and Argentina aren't quite done yet. 3.50pm GMT 55 min\u00a0Argentina boot a penalty upfield and they look to attack through Agulla. For clarification he's ostensibly on the wing with Amorisino at full back, but they do keep swapping. The ball is passed forward so we go back for another penalty against Wood on the 10m line just to the right. Sanchez will take this one. 3.48pm GMT 54 min\u00a0England spin it left but Twelvetree's pass goes astray and nothing's really happening for England's backs right now.Alan Lovell, who is much warmer than me being in Florida right now, is back: \"I feel Foden has all the skills to be an excellent choice at wing and who could deny Brown his rightful position after toiling on the wing for England and playing so well at 15.Must admit to being surprised at the Launchbury/Lawes partnership going so well. Personally, I rate Parling very highly but Launcbury is an absolute revelation for a guy who doesn't look like a rugby player. He has all the skills and his positional play reminds me of Deano. always in the right place. \"Yep I'm with you on all that. 3.46pm GMT 52 min\u00a0Good lineout and Argentina descend en masse on top of Vunipola. It's worked out to Ashton infield who is tackled but does well to get the ball away to Brown. We're going back for another England penalty though which is kicked to touch 5m out. Ashton has been much more impressive today than of late. 3.45pm GMT 52 min\u00a0Argentina go quickly so Courtney Lawes takes it upon himself to put an end to all this comeback nonsense with a trademark massive hit on Sanchez. Care comes on for Dickson as Farrell boots the penalty downfield into touch. 3.43pm GMT 50 min\u00a0The crowd go wild as a poorly-disguised David Beckham is shown in the stands on the big screen. He's got a flat cap on and apparently a bad wig. Argentina have won another scrum at the breakdown, where Dickson has been left a bit unprotected in this second half and as such hasn't been able to get the ball away as cleanly as he'd like. A much improved performance so far from the Argentina back row and they win a penalty at the scrum. 3.41pm GMT 49 min\u00a0Vunipola breaks the gain line yet again with a powerful charge through the Argentina midfield. There's a small misunderstanding between the half backs but England drive again through the forwards and there's a great offload from Launchbury to Tomkins. He loses it though and England concede another penalty. This second row partnership of England's is looking quite wonderful though. 3.39pm GMT Over it goes and Argentina are back to within 15. If it stays like this I've actually got a prediction right! 3.38pm GMT 45 min\u00a0Agulla shows great pace, skinning Twelvetrees on the outside. He's dragged into touch but it's a good lineout and from the ensuing maul they win a penalty, Wood penalised for going in at the side. Sanchez elects to have a shot at goal, although I don't really see why. It's about 20m out to the left of the sticks. 3.36pm GMT 43 min\u00a0Argentina come hard at the England defence but it's a great tackle from Robshaw and Vunipola who hold their man up and win the scrum.\"Hi Dan, Alan from Florida here again and enjoying the score board\" writes Alan from Florida.\"\u00a0Sound like this weeks England selection are doing most thngs right. And remember that this team is nowhere near the selection Lancaster would have made with everybody fit. I'm really sorry for Wade as he deserves the oportunity to make an impact and the Argies ould have been ideal.What's happenig with the centre partnership? Not impressive last week, or mayb this week either? NZ will certainly test them out though...food for thought.\"The centres are looking better, although England's tactic looks to be to get the ball to the back three ASAP so they're not spending much time on the ball and Argentina are getting pummelled around the breakdown by England's back row. Twelvetrees took his try well mind. 3.34pm GMT 42 min\u00a0That's more lovely passing from Dickson as England stretch Argentina and put Ashton away. His grubber ahead is good but the chasers closing down Agulla were in front of the kicker. 3.33pm GMT 41 min\u00a0Alex Corbisiero is on for Joe Marler, presumably to allow him to show his match fitness. Farrell kicks things off again. 3.32pm GMT \"As a Saints fan (i'm assuming) what do you think of the inclusion of Ben Foden on the wing rather than at full-back? His form in his club position is a good case for having him in the side but I sometimes think that people under-estimate the difference between the positions in the back-three and how difficult it is for him to reproduce club form out of position for England. The same easy-flexibility tends not to be assumed about the different back-row positions for example. Would it be better to have a specialist wing even if he perhaps might not be as talented in terms of basic ability as the man more at home at full-back?\"I tend to agree to an extent, but I think given the injuries to Wade and Yarde Foden is England's best bet right now. I think he's better suited to the wing than a lot of full backs, Brown included. His pace and sidestep are his best assets rather than, say, his defensive positioning and kicking, so an attacking full back like him has what you'd want in a winger. Jamie Elliott is (Yarde aside) probably the form winger in the Premiership, but I reckon you'd want someone with Foden's experience over a youngster, especially with the All Blacks up next. 3.18pm GMT 40 min\u00a0Huge high kick from Farrell is well taken by Agulla the full back, but the kick was on a sixpence and Foden catches him well. Argentina retain the ball but by the looks of things Dickson has caught someone with a slightly reckless challenge and someone appears to be down. I can't see who though, sorry.That's half time. Be right back. 3.16pm GMT 39 min\u00a0Farrell drops out and Sanchez returns with an up-and-under. Brown takes well but is clattered and for once can't hold on. This time Argentina get quick ball and Sanchez looks to have found a way through, but the ref pulls them back for obstruction and awards England a penalty deep inside their own 22. 3.14pm GMT It's right in front but at that distance it just fades wide. Plenty of distance still. 3.14pm GMT 36 min\u00a0Sanchez is standing deep and looking to jink but Robshaw is owning the gainline. This hasn't been particularly exciting as a contest but England have been quite brilliant and are playing some of their best rugby of the past 12 months. They concede a penalty though and Bosch will have a shot from just inside his own half. 3.10pm GMT Another good lineout thanks to that Northampton combination (yes I'm biased but they're saying the same on Sky so there). With bodies strewn everywhere and England just a few metres out Dickson spots the massive overlap back out on the right. He passes to Farrell, who puts Ashton in. Great touchline conversion from Farrell.Updated at 3.11pm GMT 3.09pm GMT 32 min\u00a0Quick ball off the top this time and Farrell runs into traffic so switches back the other way. He jinks but can't quite get anywhere and is scragged so Dickson spins it out to the right. Brown chips through but the ball is bundled into touch. Hartley will get another throw. 3.07pm GMT 31 min\u00a0It's kicked back and forth, then when Albacete looks to have turned England over on halfway his team is penalised for offside. Farrell puts an excellent kick into the 22 to give England another attacking platform. Imhoff is injured and limps off so Cordeno comes on for his debut. 3.06pm GMT 30 min\u00a0It's cleared but Farrell takes and offloads as he's tackled, again all in one slick motion. There are some wonderful hands from backs and forwards to get it out for Brown with Dickson involved twice. The scrum half has been omnipresent so far, replicating his club form. Then Hartley gives away a harsh penalty for holding on. 3.04pm GMT 29 min\u00a0From the scrum Argentina clear but England are right back in their faces. With nothing on Dickson kicks ahead and Argentina show some ambition by trying to run it from just outside their own 22. There's nothing doing though as England are right there. 3.02pm GMT 26 min\u00a0From a lineout England absolutely storm into the 22. Argentina need to find a way of stopping England from moving the ball so quickly or this could get embarrassing. The move breaks down as Farrell's one-touch offload doesn't go anywhere near anyone.England's lineout has been a potent weapon so far. The combination of Hartley, Wood, Lawes and Dickson of course play together every week at Northampton and are in stunning form, and it shows here. 3.00pm GMT 24 min\u00a0Good work there from Tomkins on the dummy run, although my Dad pointed out the other day that in his day the elected dummy runner was the guy who couldn't be trusted with the ball. That said this England team is probably a little more well-drilled than that.Incidentally I'm afraid you're going to have to manually refresh to get the descriptions of the tries as I'm posting the updates without description initially in the name of immediacy. 2.56pm GMT Dickson whips it Farrell who doesn't quite find Ashton on the wrap around. The ball bounces up kindly for the winger though and Twelvetrees ignores the overlap, running on the angle towards the line and using his power to ride the tackle and score. Easy conversion from the same spot as last time.Updated at 2.57pm GMT 2.54pm GMT 19 min\u00a0That's great stuff from Brown, carrying on from where he left off last week. It's an awkward high kick but he claims and offloads out the back of the hand in one move. England keep getting quick ball and are rapidly building their way up towards the line and Brown puts Ashton in... who is rolled and held up, butchering an easy chance. I'll be honest with you, I laughed a bit cruelly at Ashton. 2.52pm GMT That's a beauty, stroked over with plenty of distance to spare. 2.51pm GMT 17 min\u00a0That's more like it from Argentina, the scrum forcing England's front row up and we have another penalty, which Saracens' Marcelo Bosch will kick at goal from about 47m, more or less in front. 2.50pm GMT 15 min\u00a0Brown thinks he's away but Dickson's pass is forwards.\"How you know it's the Guardian\" is the subject of an e-mail from Ben Arnulfssen, who is reading The Guardian. \"I can't imagine anyone else so tasteless as to open their coverage of a major international, by asking for sarcastic comments about the National Anthem straight after the minutes' silence.\"Eh? I wasn't asking for them, merely saying that as it's become something of a cliche to do that I'm not going to bother myself. I'll be less oblique for you in future, yeah? 2.47pm GMT It goes to Lawes again and the much-vaunted (er, by me) Argentina pack can't stop the maul going diagonally towards the posts and Launchbury is the man to flop over. Easy conversion for Farrell. Robshaw's decision to kick those penalties to touch is vindicated.Updated at 2.48pm GMT 2.46pm GMT 12 min\u00a0Lawes takes the lineout and England maul it steadily towards the line. It's dragged down but the ball is driven on. It's held up so we go back for the penalty which is again kicked to touch. 2.44pm GMT 9 min\u00a0From the kick off Argentina look to carry it back down the left. The ball is dropped and the first scrum is to England on halfway near the touchline. It's nice and clean and England look to run. Foden looks to go on the outside and offloads to Brown as he's scragged. Leguizamon goes in at the side and Farrell doesn't go for goal, instead giving England a lineout 10m out. 2.42pm GMT Easy it is. 2.42pm GMT 8 min\u00a0Dickson has started well but his clearance kick is charged down by Imhoff. Lawes is offside at the ruck and Sanchez has an easy kick in front of the posts 15m out. 2.40pm GMT Easy for Farrell even after his struggles with the boot last week.Updated at 2.40pm GMT 2.39pm GMT 4 min\u00a0Lots more kicking back and forth before Farrell of all people decides to run it. He's tackled and England's gameplan is clear as Wood and Lawes look to clear bodies out of the ruck quickly, which the Pumas won't like as it allows Dickson to get quick ball away and try to stretch the defence. At a ruck on the 10m line centre field Argentina are penalised on the ground and Farrell will get his first shot at goal. 2.37pm GMT 3 min\u00a0England look to run it but after getting the ball through a million pairs of hands Ashton kicks ahead. Argentina return in kind and Brown thinks about a run before kicking again. He chases and it's slooooow ball from the ensuing ruck. I reckon we could be in for a lot of this. 2.36pm GMT 2 min\u00a0From the lineout Argentina spread it across the park but they can't make any ground from halfway. Cubelli makes the easy decision to chip over the top and England have a lineout on their own 22. 2.34pm GMT 1 min\u00a0Argentina in slate grey kick off through Sanchez. Dickson catches and returns a good kick amid lingering smoke from those flare things Twickenham is so keen on. 2.33pm GMT The Rememberance Day minute's silence: Impeccably observed as you'd expect from a Twickenham crowdArgentina: Missed itEngland:\u00a0Insert your own sarcastic comment about God Save The Queen here 2.26pm GMT \"This has the potential to be very dull indeed\" says Neil McLean. \"England by 5.\" Shhhh I was trying not to say that.Updated at 2.26pm GMT 2.25pm GMT It's a little strange\u00a0to see an Argentina side without Felipe Contepomi, who retired after the Rugby Championship game against Australia.It's also strange to see England with three full backs in the squad. Do they really need Alex Goode on the bench? 2.19pm GMT Sky are on their final ad break before kick off, which is in ten minutes or so at 14.30. 2.15pm GMT The sun is out here in Kings Cross and it appears to have dried up a bit at Twickenham too. Argentina won't give a solitary one. 2.09pm GMT I've seen it and I won't inflict it on you here. Suffice to say it features Lily Allen covering Keane, and as such I'm fully behind my friend who has threatened to sacrifice a kitten in-branch every time he sees it. It's truly one of the worst adverts I've ever seen and I say this as a Smiths fan who saw 'Please Please Please Let Me Get What I Want' mercilessly slaughtered last year. 1.47pm GMT I'm off to get some change\u00a0because I had to put an IOU in the office sweepstakes cup. Why not e-mail or Tweet me some thoughts? Or enjoy this, which is pretty incredible. 1.45pm GMT I reckon that if England are going to take Dean Ryan's advice below and run Argentina off the park then the team selection is just about spot on given the injuries on the wing and at loosehead prop. The only area of concern for me is inside centre, where Billy Twelvetrees had a pretty poor match last time out and if he fails again here then Stuart Lancaster will be faced with the choice of sending an off-colour 12 out against the All Blacks or the uncapped Luther Burrell. Maybe this was an opportunity for the Saints' outstanding centre to get a taste of international rugby? 1.38pm GMT Some light reading? 1.31pm GMT Afternoon all. The news as I write this preamble a couple of hours or so prior to kick off is that it's absolutely miserable in London; grey, soggy and as warm as Anton Chigurh.The same adjectives could easily be used to describe last week's opening Autumn International between England and Australia. England were happy, as you'd expect them to be after a win over one of the SANZAR big three, but the same probably can't be said of the punters who shelled out exactly one billion pounds each (or so) to watch what was, in all honesty, a dire match between an embryonic home side and the visitors who were... what's a polite way of saying effin' awful?Argentina aren't a side who should be springing too many surprises out on the Twickenham turf, but their tried-and-tested approach of \"scrum the living hell out of 'em\" won't be particularly easy to stop. England shouldn't be swayed into thinking this is going to be a cakewalk just because their opponents have precisely zero wins to their name since entering the Rugby Championship in 2012, nor by the absence of their inspirational flanker Juan Martin Fernandez Lobbe. That scrum is a formidable weapon even with the loss of injured first-choice prop Juan Figallo and Leicester's destructive Marcos Ayerza will be relishing some fresh meat in England's brand spanking new front row.Stuart Lancaster said in the wake of that win over Australia that he wouldn't be making a raft of changes for this ostensibly weaker opponent, then proceeded to do so anyway. In fairness his hand was forced in a number of positions, with Marland Yarde and Mako Vunipola of last week's starting XV ruled out with injury, and in the rest of the squad Christian Wade \u2013 who rumour had it would have been in for Ashton here \u2013 and Ben Youngs also crocked. Ben Foden, in good form at 15 for Northampton this season, is therefore shunted out on to the wing and Danny Care takes the scrum half spot on the bench that his form probably means he deserved over the Leicester man. There he's joined by a fit-again Geoff Parling, who might consider himself unlucky that his extra weight wasn't wanted to start against the Pumas.The biggest news though is that Lancaster has picked an entirely new front row after last week's demolition job on the Aussie scrum. Even though Vunipola is out you would expect an all-better-again Alex Corbisiero to come back in, but instead Lancaster has gone with awful hairstyle choices' Joe Marler, who impressed coming off the bench last week. Dylan Hartley gets a deserved recall to the starting XV after Tom Youngs' throwing went all wonky/wife had a baby last weekend/a couple of days ago. The real shock though is that Dan Cole has presumably worn himself out laughing at Ben Alexander and is replaced by Bath's Dave Wilson. Stop giggling, Mr. Ayerza.For the record, Dan's obviously-going-to-be-wrong prediction: England's pack will be too quick and, in spite of the bad weather and their backs will just outclass Argentina's. England by a reasonably-convincing 15.England:\u00a0M Brown (Harlequins); C Ashton (Saracens), J Tomkins (Saracens), B Twelvetrees (Gloucester), B Foden (Northampton); O Farrell (Saracens), L Dickson (Northampton); J Marler (Harlequins), D Hartley (Northampton), D Wilson (Bath), J Launchbury (Wasps), C Lawes (Northampton), T Wood (Northampton), C Robshaw (Harlequins, capt), B Vunipola (Saracens).Replacements:\u00a0T Youngs (Leicester), A Corbisiero (Northampton), D Cole (Leicester), G Parling (Leicester), B Morgan (Gloucester), D Care (Harlequins), T Flood (Leicester), A Goode (Saracens).Argentina:\u00a0L Amorosino (Oyonnax); H Agulla (Bath), M Bosch (Saracens), S Fernandez (Bayonne), J Imhoff (Racing Metro); N Sanchez (Bordeaux), T Cubelli (Belgrano Athletic); M Ayerza (Leicester), E Guinazu (Bath), M Bustos (Montpellier), M Galarza (Worcester), P Albacete (Toulouse), P Matera (Leicester), J F Cabello (Tucuman), J M Leguizamon (Lyon).Replacements:\u00a0S I Valdez (Tucuman), N Lobo (Free), J P Orlandi (Bath), M Carizza (Western Province), B Macome (Tucuman), M Landajo (Casi), G Tiesi (Newcastle), S Cordeno (Regatas)", "tags": ["Autumn internationals", "England rugby union team", "Argentina rugby union team", "Rugby union"], "title": "England v Argentina \u2013 as it happened"},{"date": "2014-02-18T14:00:14Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "I am in Patagonia, sitting in the lobby of one of the finest hotels in all of South America. It is perfectly located in the Andean foothills on a green lawn surrounded by lakes and glorious snow-capped mountains, and today the skies are bright blue. Inside, the old wooden beams radiate warmth and opulence, and waiters in white shirts and mustard-coloured waistcoats attend to one's every need.A man in his late 30s and two slightly younger women walk through the lobby and are seated for lunch in the centre of the adjacent panoramic sun-room. They never notice me \u2013 they are too self-absorbed. Their dress is typically Argentinian \u2013 neat, but not stylish. He and one woman exchange glances through their dark sunglasses, while the other (likely his sister) looks on.White wine is poured, and glistens in the sunlight. They munch on gourmet delicacies from the salad bar \u2026 rarely smiling, often silent. At one point, there is definitely a more energetic exchange between the siblings \u2013 a little anger perhaps. At others, the sister picks up her smartphone and texts.The sunlight beams through from the spectacular landscape outside \u2013 but it generates little warmth. Eventually, they raise their glasses and have some sort of toast. However, there's clearly not much happiness here \u2013 not much joy at the wonder of it all, both inside and out.It's over, and he counts out a thick wad of peso notes to settle the bill. Then the couple get up and as they stroll outside to the viewing terrace, he kisses her quickly on the cheek. The sister, who hadn't quite finished eating, takes another gulp of wine and then gathers up her belongings and hurriedly follows. Where are they going? As a civilisation, where are we going if we don't relish the aesthetic value of such experiences?Meanwhile, Argentine annual inflation is at 30%, and the US dollar has official and illegal \"blue\" rates, both of which have risen 50% in the past year. Argentinians remember very clearly the dreadful economic crash in 2001 and in particular the television images of people taking food out of trash cans.Today in Buenos Aires the middle classes are queueing at the banks to withdraw their funds, but there's no sense of crisis at this hotel.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Argentina: peso passion"},{"date": "2014-02-18T14:00:14Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "I am in Patagonia, sitting in the lobby of one of the finest hotels in all of South America. It is perfectly located in the Andean foothills on a green lawn surrounded by lakes and glorious snow-capped mountains, and today the skies are bright blue. Inside, the old wooden beams radiate warmth and opulence, and waiters in white shirts and mustard-coloured waistcoats attend to one's every need.A man in his late 30s and two slightly younger women walk through the lobby and are seated for lunch in the centre of the adjacent panoramic sun-room. They never notice me \u2013 they are too self-absorbed. Their dress is typically Argentinian \u2013 neat, but not stylish. He and one woman exchange glances through their dark sunglasses, while the other (likely his sister) looks on.White wine is poured, and glistens in the sunlight. They munch on gourmet delicacies from the salad bar \u2026 rarely smiling, often silent. At one point, there is definitely a more energetic exchange between the siblings \u2013 a little anger perhaps. At others, the sister picks up her smartphone and texts.The sunlight beams through from the spectacular landscape outside \u2013 but it generates little warmth. Eventually, they raise their glasses and have some sort of toast. However, there's clearly not much happiness here \u2013 not much joy at the wonder of it all, both inside and out.It's over, and he counts out a thick wad of peso notes to settle the bill. Then the couple get up and as they stroll outside to the viewing terrace, he kisses her quickly on the cheek. The sister, who hadn't quite finished eating, takes another gulp of wine and then gathers up her belongings and hurriedly follows. Where are they going? As a civilisation, where are we going if we don't relish the aesthetic value of such experiences?Meanwhile, Argentine annual inflation is at 30%, and the US dollar has official and illegal \"blue\" rates, both of which have risen 50% in the past year. Argentinians remember very clearly the dreadful economic crash in 2001 and in particular the television images of people taking food out of trash cans.Today in Buenos Aires the middle classes are queueing at the banks to withdraw their funds, but there's no sense of crisis at this hotel.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Argentina: peso passion"},{"date": "2014-01-07T16:17:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has opened a fresh bureaucratic front on the Falklands issue by creating a new government post of Malvinas secretary.The first holder of the position, Daniel Filmus, immediately accused Britain of double standards and condemned the occupation of the islands.At his swearing-in ceremony on Monday, the former senator for Buenos Aires said the creation of the post reaffirmed the government's commitment to resolving the dispute through peaceful, democratic means.\"Argentina is telling the world we are not a complete country. Argentina is a country that lives with colonialism in the 21st century, which we find totally unacceptable,\" he said.According to the foreign ministry, the new secretariat will design and co-ordinate strategies \"for the defence of Argentinian rights and interests as well as informing the world about Argentine rights\".The appointment comes amid an escalation of nationalist rhetoric between London and Buenos Aires.David Cameron said the UK was always ready to defend the Falklands in a Christmas message to the islanders. \"The Argentine government will never succeed in any attempt to misrepresent the history of your islands or question your right to self-determination,\" the British prime minister promised.This provoked a sharp response from the Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, who said the British \"lion roars but does not inspire fear any more\".At stake is not just the vast maritime territory around the islands in the South Atlantic, but billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Fields now being developed around the Falklands are expected to bring in \u00a3200m-\u00a3300m a year.Argentina has tried to apply economic, legal and diplomatic pressure to prevent the extraction of those resources. Its congress recently passed a law that imposes criminal sanctions, including 15-year jail sentences, on people involved in \"illegal exploration of hydrocarbons in the Argentinian continental shelf\".The British government, which has 1,300 troops on the islands that were the fought over by the two sides in 1982, accuses Buenos Aires of bullying tactics.Despite the new secretariat and law, the situation for the islanders is thought unlikely to change. They have lived in economic isolation from Argentina for many years now and last year voted overwhelming to remain under British rule.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Falkland islands: Argentina appoints Malvinas secretary"},{"date": "2014-02-18T14:00:14Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "I am in Patagonia, sitting in the lobby of one of the finest hotels in all of South America. It is perfectly located in the Andean foothills on a green lawn surrounded by lakes and glorious snow-capped mountains, and today the skies are bright blue. Inside, the old wooden beams radiate warmth and opulence, and waiters in white shirts and mustard-coloured waistcoats attend to one's every need.A man in his late 30s and two slightly younger women walk through the lobby and are seated for lunch in the centre of the adjacent panoramic sun-room. They never notice me \u2013 they are too self-absorbed. Their dress is typically Argentinian \u2013 neat, but not stylish. He and one woman exchange glances through their dark sunglasses, while the other (likely his sister) looks on.White wine is poured, and glistens in the sunlight. They munch on gourmet delicacies from the salad bar \u2026 rarely smiling, often silent. At one point, there is definitely a more energetic exchange between the siblings \u2013 a little anger perhaps. At others, the sister picks up her smartphone and texts.The sunlight beams through from the spectacular landscape outside \u2013 but it generates little warmth. Eventually, they raise their glasses and have some sort of toast. However, there's clearly not much happiness here \u2013 not much joy at the wonder of it all, both inside and out.It's over, and he counts out a thick wad of peso notes to settle the bill. Then the couple get up and as they stroll outside to the viewing terrace, he kisses her quickly on the cheek. The sister, who hadn't quite finished eating, takes another gulp of wine and then gathers up her belongings and hurriedly follows. Where are they going? As a civilisation, where are we going if we don't relish the aesthetic value of such experiences?Meanwhile, Argentine annual inflation is at 30%, and the US dollar has official and illegal \"blue\" rates, both of which have risen 50% in the past year. Argentinians remember very clearly the dreadful economic crash in 2001 and in particular the television images of people taking food out of trash cans.Today in Buenos Aires the middle classes are queueing at the banks to withdraw their funds, but there's no sense of crisis at this hotel.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Argentina: peso passion"},{"date": "2014-01-07T16:17:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has opened a fresh bureaucratic front on the Falklands issue by creating a new government post of Malvinas secretary.The first holder of the position, Daniel Filmus, immediately accused Britain of double standards and condemned the occupation of the islands.At his swearing-in ceremony on Monday, the former senator for Buenos Aires said the creation of the post reaffirmed the government's commitment to resolving the dispute through peaceful, democratic means.\"Argentina is telling the world we are not a complete country. Argentina is a country that lives with colonialism in the 21st century, which we find totally unacceptable,\" he said.According to the foreign ministry, the new secretariat will design and co-ordinate strategies \"for the defence of Argentinian rights and interests as well as informing the world about Argentine rights\".The appointment comes amid an escalation of nationalist rhetoric between London and Buenos Aires.David Cameron said the UK was always ready to defend the Falklands in a Christmas message to the islanders. \"The Argentine government will never succeed in any attempt to misrepresent the history of your islands or question your right to self-determination,\" the British prime minister promised.This provoked a sharp response from the Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, who said the British \"lion roars but does not inspire fear any more\".At stake is not just the vast maritime territory around the islands in the South Atlantic, but billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Fields now being developed around the Falklands are expected to bring in \u00a3200m-\u00a3300m a year.Argentina has tried to apply economic, legal and diplomatic pressure to prevent the extraction of those resources. Its congress recently passed a law that imposes criminal sanctions, including 15-year jail sentences, on people involved in \"illegal exploration of hydrocarbons in the Argentinian continental shelf\".The British government, which has 1,300 troops on the islands that were the fought over by the two sides in 1982, accuses Buenos Aires of bullying tactics.Despite the new secretariat and law, the situation for the islanders is thought unlikely to change. They have lived in economic isolation from Argentina for many years now and last year voted overwhelming to remain under British rule.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Falkland islands: Argentina appoints Malvinas secretary"},{"date": "2014-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In a Studies of Youth Literature class at the University of Buenos Aires, my teacher picked on me, the only native speaker, to read aloud from our copy of Roald Dahl's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Never has my rather ordinary south-east London accent been met with such raptures. I felt like a parrot who surprises their owner with a perfect rendition of Shakespeare's Sonnet Number 18. One girl told me I had \"beautiful sonority\". I was inundated with requests for conversation exchange. But, while Her Majesty's English was winning the hearts of my classmates, right outside the door of the classroom (my faculty being notorious for its political zeal) hung a disfigured picture of Margaret Thatcher emblazoned with the angry words: \"Brits Get Lost\", among other less savoury phrases.While living in Buenos Aires last year, I came to realise the importance of a good grasp of English for students and young, aspiring professionals in Argentina. Regardless of their attitude towards Great Britain more generally, verbally the British empire is still ever-present in Argentina today. In recent years, Argentinians, fervently patriotic by nature, have reluctantly acknowledged that learning English is crucial if they want to succeed in a country racked, as theirs is, with economic turmoil.Currently the Argentine economy is in dire straits, almost as bad as the crisis in 2002. Amid rising temperatures, rising tempers and rising supermarket prices, Argentinians, led by their president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, have become increasingly hostile towards foreign parties.Fern\u00e1ndez points the finger at those who refuse to bury the hatchet on the large international debts the nation has racked up in recent years. Not for the first time, Argentinians lamenting over extortionate costs find themselves cursing the colonial spectre under their breath.But Daniel Scioli, governor of the province of Buenos Aires, recently proposed one solution to the financial woes: create a secure labour and economic infrastructure by aligning with more stable international economies. And to enter into this kind of global trade, for the next few decades at least, you need to speak high-level English. Even in the face of this new crisis, there appears to be no choice but to embrace the enemy.Argentinian primary school children are taught to mistrust the English. Stories of British invasions, of Falkland travesties, of colonial rapes, are shovelled into the minds of youngsters like hot coals onto an already blazing nationalistic fire. And yet, in the barrio of Belgrano, the Chelsea of Buenos Aires, the up-market streets are lined with dozens of bilingual schools. The Language Faculty at the University of Buenos Aires offers three times as many classes for beginners' English than it does for neighbouring Brazilian Portuguese.In common parlance on Argentine streets are robust anglicisms such as \"a-full\" (meaning very busy: as in \"Today I am a-full\") and \"heavy\" (meaning intense: as in \"Studying medicine is very heavy\"). In fact, people who accidently bump into you while out and about will cry \"sorry!\" (with a rolled \"r\"). British culture is similarly ubiquitous, with Argentine pedestrians right, left and centre sporting Union Jack print T-shirts.This paradox between animousity towards Brits and desire to learn their language is a part of the age old internal battle between \"European\" civilisation and \"Latino\" savagery discussed at great length by Argentine great Borges. It is a paradox that today manifests itself in the location of several dubiously authentic \"Irish bars\" in the centre of town lining the aggressively named \"Malvinas Argentinas\" street.Last year I experienced at close hand the force of this paradox. To supplement my student-loan I took a job as a waitress and receptionist in one of the many Tango restaurant-show complexes in the city. Earning a pittance which would be illegal in the UK and at the beck and call of my boss, I came to appreciate the power I wielded simply by opening my mouth. Picking up the phone and offering an answer otherwise unremarkable save the fact it was delivered in native English was enough to send my boss into a fit of jealousy. He would sulk for 10 minutes, before cheering himself up by rudely demanding I empty the office bin, a childlike attempt to reassert the hierarchies of power that had crumbled at the sound of my native pronunciation.With this embarrassing and reluctant but apparently necessary assimilation of British culture and language in Argentina, no wonder Fern\u00e1ndez has adopted a defensive attitude towards the current crisis. Argentina cannot be blamed for wanting to rid itself once and for all from the still-devastating vestiges of colonialism, but neither can it be blamed for its people attempting to invest in stable, international economies.It now strikes me as obvious, although I didn't realise at the time, that as we sat in my class and I obediently read out a section of Roald Dahl, my peers didn't simply hear the dull tones of my normal speaking-voice, they heard the mysterious and exclusive sounds of international success: English \u2013 the golden ticket to sought-after economic stability.", "tags": ["Education", "Languages", "Argentina"], "title": "Despite a troubled history, Argentina still needs the English language"},{"date": "2014-02-18T14:00:14Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "I am in Patagonia, sitting in the lobby of one of the finest hotels in all of South America. It is perfectly located in the Andean foothills on a green lawn surrounded by lakes and glorious snow-capped mountains, and today the skies are bright blue. Inside, the old wooden beams radiate warmth and opulence, and waiters in white shirts and mustard-coloured waistcoats attend to one's every need.A man in his late 30s and two slightly younger women walk through the lobby and are seated for lunch in the centre of the adjacent panoramic sun-room. They never notice me \u2013 they are too self-absorbed. Their dress is typically Argentinian \u2013 neat, but not stylish. He and one woman exchange glances through their dark sunglasses, while the other (likely his sister) looks on.White wine is poured, and glistens in the sunlight. They munch on gourmet delicacies from the salad bar \u2026 rarely smiling, often silent. At one point, there is definitely a more energetic exchange between the siblings \u2013 a little anger perhaps. At others, the sister picks up her smartphone and texts.The sunlight beams through from the spectacular landscape outside \u2013 but it generates little warmth. Eventually, they raise their glasses and have some sort of toast. However, there's clearly not much happiness here \u2013 not much joy at the wonder of it all, both inside and out.It's over, and he counts out a thick wad of peso notes to settle the bill. Then the couple get up and as they stroll outside to the viewing terrace, he kisses her quickly on the cheek. The sister, who hadn't quite finished eating, takes another gulp of wine and then gathers up her belongings and hurriedly follows. Where are they going? As a civilisation, where are we going if we don't relish the aesthetic value of such experiences?Meanwhile, Argentine annual inflation is at 30%, and the US dollar has official and illegal \"blue\" rates, both of which have risen 50% in the past year. Argentinians remember very clearly the dreadful economic crash in 2001 and in particular the television images of people taking food out of trash cans.Today in Buenos Aires the middle classes are queueing at the banks to withdraw their funds, but there's no sense of crisis at this hotel.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Argentina: peso passion"},{"date": "2014-01-07T16:17:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has opened a fresh bureaucratic front on the Falklands issue by creating a new government post of Malvinas secretary.The first holder of the position, Daniel Filmus, immediately accused Britain of double standards and condemned the occupation of the islands.At his swearing-in ceremony on Monday, the former senator for Buenos Aires said the creation of the post reaffirmed the government's commitment to resolving the dispute through peaceful, democratic means.\"Argentina is telling the world we are not a complete country. Argentina is a country that lives with colonialism in the 21st century, which we find totally unacceptable,\" he said.According to the foreign ministry, the new secretariat will design and co-ordinate strategies \"for the defence of Argentinian rights and interests as well as informing the world about Argentine rights\".The appointment comes amid an escalation of nationalist rhetoric between London and Buenos Aires.David Cameron said the UK was always ready to defend the Falklands in a Christmas message to the islanders. \"The Argentine government will never succeed in any attempt to misrepresent the history of your islands or question your right to self-determination,\" the British prime minister promised.This provoked a sharp response from the Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, who said the British \"lion roars but does not inspire fear any more\".At stake is not just the vast maritime territory around the islands in the South Atlantic, but billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Fields now being developed around the Falklands are expected to bring in \u00a3200m-\u00a3300m a year.Argentina has tried to apply economic, legal and diplomatic pressure to prevent the extraction of those resources. Its congress recently passed a law that imposes criminal sanctions, including 15-year jail sentences, on people involved in \"illegal exploration of hydrocarbons in the Argentinian continental shelf\".The British government, which has 1,300 troops on the islands that were the fought over by the two sides in 1982, accuses Buenos Aires of bullying tactics.Despite the new secretariat and law, the situation for the islanders is thought unlikely to change. They have lived in economic isolation from Argentina for many years now and last year voted overwhelming to remain under British rule.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Falkland islands: Argentina appoints Malvinas secretary"},{"date": "2014-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In a Studies of Youth Literature class at the University of Buenos Aires, my teacher picked on me, the only native speaker, to read aloud from our copy of Roald Dahl's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Never has my rather ordinary south-east London accent been met with such raptures. I felt like a parrot who surprises their owner with a perfect rendition of Shakespeare's Sonnet Number 18. One girl told me I had \"beautiful sonority\". I was inundated with requests for conversation exchange. But, while Her Majesty's English was winning the hearts of my classmates, right outside the door of the classroom (my faculty being notorious for its political zeal) hung a disfigured picture of Margaret Thatcher emblazoned with the angry words: \"Brits Get Lost\", among other less savoury phrases.While living in Buenos Aires last year, I came to realise the importance of a good grasp of English for students and young, aspiring professionals in Argentina. Regardless of their attitude towards Great Britain more generally, verbally the British empire is still ever-present in Argentina today. In recent years, Argentinians, fervently patriotic by nature, have reluctantly acknowledged that learning English is crucial if they want to succeed in a country racked, as theirs is, with economic turmoil.Currently the Argentine economy is in dire straits, almost as bad as the crisis in 2002. Amid rising temperatures, rising tempers and rising supermarket prices, Argentinians, led by their president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, have become increasingly hostile towards foreign parties.Fern\u00e1ndez points the finger at those who refuse to bury the hatchet on the large international debts the nation has racked up in recent years. Not for the first time, Argentinians lamenting over extortionate costs find themselves cursing the colonial spectre under their breath.But Daniel Scioli, governor of the province of Buenos Aires, recently proposed one solution to the financial woes: create a secure labour and economic infrastructure by aligning with more stable international economies. And to enter into this kind of global trade, for the next few decades at least, you need to speak high-level English. Even in the face of this new crisis, there appears to be no choice but to embrace the enemy.Argentinian primary school children are taught to mistrust the English. Stories of British invasions, of Falkland travesties, of colonial rapes, are shovelled into the minds of youngsters like hot coals onto an already blazing nationalistic fire. And yet, in the barrio of Belgrano, the Chelsea of Buenos Aires, the up-market streets are lined with dozens of bilingual schools. The Language Faculty at the University of Buenos Aires offers three times as many classes for beginners' English than it does for neighbouring Brazilian Portuguese.In common parlance on Argentine streets are robust anglicisms such as \"a-full\" (meaning very busy: as in \"Today I am a-full\") and \"heavy\" (meaning intense: as in \"Studying medicine is very heavy\"). In fact, people who accidently bump into you while out and about will cry \"sorry!\" (with a rolled \"r\"). British culture is similarly ubiquitous, with Argentine pedestrians right, left and centre sporting Union Jack print T-shirts.This paradox between animousity towards Brits and desire to learn their language is a part of the age old internal battle between \"European\" civilisation and \"Latino\" savagery discussed at great length by Argentine great Borges. It is a paradox that today manifests itself in the location of several dubiously authentic \"Irish bars\" in the centre of town lining the aggressively named \"Malvinas Argentinas\" street.Last year I experienced at close hand the force of this paradox. To supplement my student-loan I took a job as a waitress and receptionist in one of the many Tango restaurant-show complexes in the city. Earning a pittance which would be illegal in the UK and at the beck and call of my boss, I came to appreciate the power I wielded simply by opening my mouth. Picking up the phone and offering an answer otherwise unremarkable save the fact it was delivered in native English was enough to send my boss into a fit of jealousy. He would sulk for 10 minutes, before cheering himself up by rudely demanding I empty the office bin, a childlike attempt to reassert the hierarchies of power that had crumbled at the sound of my native pronunciation.With this embarrassing and reluctant but apparently necessary assimilation of British culture and language in Argentina, no wonder Fern\u00e1ndez has adopted a defensive attitude towards the current crisis. Argentina cannot be blamed for wanting to rid itself once and for all from the still-devastating vestiges of colonialism, but neither can it be blamed for its people attempting to invest in stable, international economies.It now strikes me as obvious, although I didn't realise at the time, that as we sat in my class and I obediently read out a section of Roald Dahl, my peers didn't simply hear the dull tones of my normal speaking-voice, they heard the mysterious and exclusive sounds of international success: English \u2013 the golden ticket to sought-after economic stability.", "tags": ["Education", "Languages", "Argentina"], "title": "Despite a troubled history, Argentina still needs the English language"},{"date": "2014-03-07T17:08:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "US media mogul and CNN founder Ted Turner was flown to hospital in Buenos Aires on Friday for an emergency apendicitis operation.Turner had been vacationing at his mountain estate in Villa Traful, about an hour\u2019s drive from the ski resort of Bariloche in the Patagonia region of southern Argentina, when he was rushed to the San Carlos Clinic in Bariloche with acute apendicitis, doctors at the clinic said.\u201cWe offered to operate him here but he didn\u2019t want to,\u201d said a spokesperson for clinic.Turner, 75, then boarded a private plane to fly the approximately 1,000 miles to Buenos Aires, where he was due to have the operation later on Friday at the Instituto de Diagnostico hospital in the upscale neighbourhood of Recoleta.Turner bought his large mountain estate, some 5,000 hectares (over 12,000 acres), in 1996. Set on the foothills of the high Andes mountain range in Patagonia, Turner often goes trout fishing there.", "tags": ["CNN", "Media", "US press and publishing", "Television industry"], "title": "CNN founder Ted Turner hospitalised in Argentina for appendicitis"},{"date": "2014-02-18T14:00:14Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "I am in Patagonia, sitting in the lobby of one of the finest hotels in all of South America. It is perfectly located in the Andean foothills on a green lawn surrounded by lakes and glorious snow-capped mountains, and today the skies are bright blue. Inside, the old wooden beams radiate warmth and opulence, and waiters in white shirts and mustard-coloured waistcoats attend to one's every need.A man in his late 30s and two slightly younger women walk through the lobby and are seated for lunch in the centre of the adjacent panoramic sun-room. They never notice me \u2013 they are too self-absorbed. Their dress is typically Argentinian \u2013 neat, but not stylish. He and one woman exchange glances through their dark sunglasses, while the other (likely his sister) looks on.White wine is poured, and glistens in the sunlight. They munch on gourmet delicacies from the salad bar \u2026 rarely smiling, often silent. At one point, there is definitely a more energetic exchange between the siblings \u2013 a little anger perhaps. At others, the sister picks up her smartphone and texts.The sunlight beams through from the spectacular landscape outside \u2013 but it generates little warmth. Eventually, they raise their glasses and have some sort of toast. However, there's clearly not much happiness here \u2013 not much joy at the wonder of it all, both inside and out.It's over, and he counts out a thick wad of peso notes to settle the bill. Then the couple get up and as they stroll outside to the viewing terrace, he kisses her quickly on the cheek. The sister, who hadn't quite finished eating, takes another gulp of wine and then gathers up her belongings and hurriedly follows. Where are they going? As a civilisation, where are we going if we don't relish the aesthetic value of such experiences?Meanwhile, Argentine annual inflation is at 30%, and the US dollar has official and illegal \"blue\" rates, both of which have risen 50% in the past year. Argentinians remember very clearly the dreadful economic crash in 2001 and in particular the television images of people taking food out of trash cans.Today in Buenos Aires the middle classes are queueing at the banks to withdraw their funds, but there's no sense of crisis at this hotel.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Argentina: peso passion"},{"date": "2014-01-07T16:17:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has opened a fresh bureaucratic front on the Falklands issue by creating a new government post of Malvinas secretary.The first holder of the position, Daniel Filmus, immediately accused Britain of double standards and condemned the occupation of the islands.At his swearing-in ceremony on Monday, the former senator for Buenos Aires said the creation of the post reaffirmed the government's commitment to resolving the dispute through peaceful, democratic means.\"Argentina is telling the world we are not a complete country. Argentina is a country that lives with colonialism in the 21st century, which we find totally unacceptable,\" he said.According to the foreign ministry, the new secretariat will design and co-ordinate strategies \"for the defence of Argentinian rights and interests as well as informing the world about Argentine rights\".The appointment comes amid an escalation of nationalist rhetoric between London and Buenos Aires.David Cameron said the UK was always ready to defend the Falklands in a Christmas message to the islanders. \"The Argentine government will never succeed in any attempt to misrepresent the history of your islands or question your right to self-determination,\" the British prime minister promised.This provoked a sharp response from the Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, who said the British \"lion roars but does not inspire fear any more\".At stake is not just the vast maritime territory around the islands in the South Atlantic, but billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Fields now being developed around the Falklands are expected to bring in \u00a3200m-\u00a3300m a year.Argentina has tried to apply economic, legal and diplomatic pressure to prevent the extraction of those resources. Its congress recently passed a law that imposes criminal sanctions, including 15-year jail sentences, on people involved in \"illegal exploration of hydrocarbons in the Argentinian continental shelf\".The British government, which has 1,300 troops on the islands that were the fought over by the two sides in 1982, accuses Buenos Aires of bullying tactics.Despite the new secretariat and law, the situation for the islanders is thought unlikely to change. They have lived in economic isolation from Argentina for many years now and last year voted overwhelming to remain under British rule.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Falkland islands: Argentina appoints Malvinas secretary"},{"date": "2014-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In a Studies of Youth Literature class at the University of Buenos Aires, my teacher picked on me, the only native speaker, to read aloud from our copy of Roald Dahl's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Never has my rather ordinary south-east London accent been met with such raptures. I felt like a parrot who surprises their owner with a perfect rendition of Shakespeare's Sonnet Number 18. One girl told me I had \"beautiful sonority\". I was inundated with requests for conversation exchange. But, while Her Majesty's English was winning the hearts of my classmates, right outside the door of the classroom (my faculty being notorious for its political zeal) hung a disfigured picture of Margaret Thatcher emblazoned with the angry words: \"Brits Get Lost\", among other less savoury phrases.While living in Buenos Aires last year, I came to realise the importance of a good grasp of English for students and young, aspiring professionals in Argentina. Regardless of their attitude towards Great Britain more generally, verbally the British empire is still ever-present in Argentina today. In recent years, Argentinians, fervently patriotic by nature, have reluctantly acknowledged that learning English is crucial if they want to succeed in a country racked, as theirs is, with economic turmoil.Currently the Argentine economy is in dire straits, almost as bad as the crisis in 2002. Amid rising temperatures, rising tempers and rising supermarket prices, Argentinians, led by their president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, have become increasingly hostile towards foreign parties.Fern\u00e1ndez points the finger at those who refuse to bury the hatchet on the large international debts the nation has racked up in recent years. Not for the first time, Argentinians lamenting over extortionate costs find themselves cursing the colonial spectre under their breath.But Daniel Scioli, governor of the province of Buenos Aires, recently proposed one solution to the financial woes: create a secure labour and economic infrastructure by aligning with more stable international economies. And to enter into this kind of global trade, for the next few decades at least, you need to speak high-level English. Even in the face of this new crisis, there appears to be no choice but to embrace the enemy.Argentinian primary school children are taught to mistrust the English. Stories of British invasions, of Falkland travesties, of colonial rapes, are shovelled into the minds of youngsters like hot coals onto an already blazing nationalistic fire. And yet, in the barrio of Belgrano, the Chelsea of Buenos Aires, the up-market streets are lined with dozens of bilingual schools. The Language Faculty at the University of Buenos Aires offers three times as many classes for beginners' English than it does for neighbouring Brazilian Portuguese.In common parlance on Argentine streets are robust anglicisms such as \"a-full\" (meaning very busy: as in \"Today I am a-full\") and \"heavy\" (meaning intense: as in \"Studying medicine is very heavy\"). In fact, people who accidently bump into you while out and about will cry \"sorry!\" (with a rolled \"r\"). British culture is similarly ubiquitous, with Argentine pedestrians right, left and centre sporting Union Jack print T-shirts.This paradox between animousity towards Brits and desire to learn their language is a part of the age old internal battle between \"European\" civilisation and \"Latino\" savagery discussed at great length by Argentine great Borges. It is a paradox that today manifests itself in the location of several dubiously authentic \"Irish bars\" in the centre of town lining the aggressively named \"Malvinas Argentinas\" street.Last year I experienced at close hand the force of this paradox. To supplement my student-loan I took a job as a waitress and receptionist in one of the many Tango restaurant-show complexes in the city. Earning a pittance which would be illegal in the UK and at the beck and call of my boss, I came to appreciate the power I wielded simply by opening my mouth. Picking up the phone and offering an answer otherwise unremarkable save the fact it was delivered in native English was enough to send my boss into a fit of jealousy. He would sulk for 10 minutes, before cheering himself up by rudely demanding I empty the office bin, a childlike attempt to reassert the hierarchies of power that had crumbled at the sound of my native pronunciation.With this embarrassing and reluctant but apparently necessary assimilation of British culture and language in Argentina, no wonder Fern\u00e1ndez has adopted a defensive attitude towards the current crisis. Argentina cannot be blamed for wanting to rid itself once and for all from the still-devastating vestiges of colonialism, but neither can it be blamed for its people attempting to invest in stable, international economies.It now strikes me as obvious, although I didn't realise at the time, that as we sat in my class and I obediently read out a section of Roald Dahl, my peers didn't simply hear the dull tones of my normal speaking-voice, they heard the mysterious and exclusive sounds of international success: English \u2013 the golden ticket to sought-after economic stability.", "tags": ["Education", "Languages", "Argentina"], "title": "Despite a troubled history, Argentina still needs the English language"},{"date": "2014-03-07T17:08:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "US media mogul and CNN founder Ted Turner was flown to hospital in Buenos Aires on Friday for an emergency apendicitis operation.Turner had been vacationing at his mountain estate in Villa Traful, about an hour\u2019s drive from the ski resort of Bariloche in the Patagonia region of southern Argentina, when he was rushed to the San Carlos Clinic in Bariloche with acute apendicitis, doctors at the clinic said.\u201cWe offered to operate him here but he didn\u2019t want to,\u201d said a spokesperson for clinic.Turner, 75, then boarded a private plane to fly the approximately 1,000 miles to Buenos Aires, where he was due to have the operation later on Friday at the Instituto de Diagnostico hospital in the upscale neighbourhood of Recoleta.Turner bought his large mountain estate, some 5,000 hectares (over 12,000 acres), in 1996. Set on the foothills of the high Andes mountain range in Patagonia, Turner often goes trout fishing there.", "tags": ["CNN", "Media", "US press and publishing", "Television industry"], "title": "CNN founder Ted Turner hospitalised in Argentina for appendicitis"},{"date": "2014-01-24T20:02:27Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Following the sudden collapse in the peso this week, some Argentinians fear their country may be lurching into a new episode of the crises that seem to hit the country's economy almost every decade.Scrambling to protect the country's perilously low central bank reserves, which dropped 30% last year and fell below $30bn (\u00a318bn) this month, the government of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner seemed at a loss how to proceed.It started the week introducing tight controls on the purchase of online goods from abroad, to prevent Argentinians from spending dollars in ever larger quantities \u2013 especially on Chinese products which, as a result of 30% inflation, can be cheaper delivered to their door from abroad than bought at local stores.But on Friday the government seemed to do a U-turn, saying it would relax its grip on the dollar. From next week it will remove some of the controls it introduced two years ago which banned Argentinians from trading their pesos for dollars, a customary practice in a country with a long history of inflation.The dollar freeze paralysed the property market, which operates in dollars, but failed to stem the rush away from the peso. Instead it created a black market where the dollar has risen from eight to 13 pesos in the last year while the central bank continued using \u2013 and losing \u2013 reserves trying to keep the dollar in check.Its battle was ultimately lost this week in view of the peso's sudden collapse.Seemingly oblivious to the country's economic plight, Fern\u00e1ndez has referred to the last 10 years \u2013 since her husband assumed Argentina's presidency in 2003, and she took over in 2007 \u2013 as the \"victorious decade\".But this week's forced devaluation of the official exchange rate may make it difficult to continue repeating a slogan habitually used in speeches by government officials, printed on billboards and even emblazoned on a recent series of commemorative stamps.To 68-year-old Aida Ender, after 40 days without power in her eighth-floor apartment in the middle-class neighbourhood of Almagro in Buenos Aires, the slogan grates like a bad joke.\"There's no plan, the president is out of touch with reality, she's lost like Alice in Wonderland,\" says Ender, who has had to move out of her apartment, where she has had no water, no working lift and no refrigeration since 16 December. Her plight is shared by thousands of neighbours and even hospitals, in the middle of unusual summer highs of close to 40C.Economic observers blame the government's populist policies \u2013 including keeping utility prices artificially low to disguise inflation \u2013 for the power crisis. They say this has made it impossible for firms to invest in maintaining power lines.The government denies the charges and says that inflation is fuelled by anti-government businessmen.Argentina has been here before. A bout of hyperinflation in 1989 \u2013 when monthly price increases peaked at 197%, accompanied by similar massive and prolonged power cuts \u2013 caused the collapse of Raul Alfons\u00edn's government. Twelve years later, in 2001, a similar crisis forced the resignation of another president, Fernando de la Rua, and led to the largest ever foreign debt default.N\u00e9stor Kirchner pulled Argentina out of the crisis that followed and the ensuing vigorous economic growth continued under his wife, Fern\u00e1ndez.Voters responded enthusiastically, granting the couple three successive presidencies and comfortable majorities in Congress.But the glow is definitely gone now, obscured by runaway inflation, an alarming growth in crime and revelations of seemingly rampant corruption among the president's top officials.Those problems, together with a large trade deficit, have sent the peso crashing. It fell 11% against the dollar on Thursday, as the government allowed it to drop without announcing an official devaluation \u2013 something Fern\u00e1ndez pledged last year she would never permit. On Friday night it was down another 1%.With Fern\u00e1ndez practically absent from daily government since an operation to remove a blood clot from her brain last October, the government seems rudderless. Major announcements are left to her cabinet chief, Jorge Capitanich, another official who has been linked to alleged corruption, and economy minister Axel Kicillof, who is said to be behind the plan to let the peso lose value without officially announcing a devaluation.\"The government is at a stage of dangerous improvisation,\" tweeted former central bank president Mart\u00edn Redrado, who was fired by Fern\u00e1ndez in 2010. \"These measures generate only more paralysis and uncertainty.\"At least 11 people were killed and hundreds injured last month when a wave of supermarket looting spread across Argentina, fuelled by a combination of rising food prices and a police strike for higher wages.Just before Christmas, Fern\u00e1ndez celebrated the 10 years since her husband took office. It was one of her few appearances since her operation, and she danced with television stars in an exuberant ceremony in front of the presidential palace.The scene prompted radio host Diego Poggi to say: \"The truth is CFK (Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner) looks divine. Pity the country doesn't.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Currencies", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Peso collapse raises fears Argentina lurching towards decennial crisis"},{"date": "2014-02-18T14:00:14Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "I am in Patagonia, sitting in the lobby of one of the finest hotels in all of South America. It is perfectly located in the Andean foothills on a green lawn surrounded by lakes and glorious snow-capped mountains, and today the skies are bright blue. Inside, the old wooden beams radiate warmth and opulence, and waiters in white shirts and mustard-coloured waistcoats attend to one's every need.A man in his late 30s and two slightly younger women walk through the lobby and are seated for lunch in the centre of the adjacent panoramic sun-room. They never notice me \u2013 they are too self-absorbed. Their dress is typically Argentinian \u2013 neat, but not stylish. He and one woman exchange glances through their dark sunglasses, while the other (likely his sister) looks on.White wine is poured, and glistens in the sunlight. They munch on gourmet delicacies from the salad bar \u2026 rarely smiling, often silent. At one point, there is definitely a more energetic exchange between the siblings \u2013 a little anger perhaps. At others, the sister picks up her smartphone and texts.The sunlight beams through from the spectacular landscape outside \u2013 but it generates little warmth. Eventually, they raise their glasses and have some sort of toast. However, there's clearly not much happiness here \u2013 not much joy at the wonder of it all, both inside and out.It's over, and he counts out a thick wad of peso notes to settle the bill. Then the couple get up and as they stroll outside to the viewing terrace, he kisses her quickly on the cheek. The sister, who hadn't quite finished eating, takes another gulp of wine and then gathers up her belongings and hurriedly follows. Where are they going? As a civilisation, where are we going if we don't relish the aesthetic value of such experiences?Meanwhile, Argentine annual inflation is at 30%, and the US dollar has official and illegal \"blue\" rates, both of which have risen 50% in the past year. Argentinians remember very clearly the dreadful economic crash in 2001 and in particular the television images of people taking food out of trash cans.Today in Buenos Aires the middle classes are queueing at the banks to withdraw their funds, but there's no sense of crisis at this hotel.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Argentina: peso passion"},{"date": "2014-01-07T16:17:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has opened a fresh bureaucratic front on the Falklands issue by creating a new government post of Malvinas secretary.The first holder of the position, Daniel Filmus, immediately accused Britain of double standards and condemned the occupation of the islands.At his swearing-in ceremony on Monday, the former senator for Buenos Aires said the creation of the post reaffirmed the government's commitment to resolving the dispute through peaceful, democratic means.\"Argentina is telling the world we are not a complete country. Argentina is a country that lives with colonialism in the 21st century, which we find totally unacceptable,\" he said.According to the foreign ministry, the new secretariat will design and co-ordinate strategies \"for the defence of Argentinian rights and interests as well as informing the world about Argentine rights\".The appointment comes amid an escalation of nationalist rhetoric between London and Buenos Aires.David Cameron said the UK was always ready to defend the Falklands in a Christmas message to the islanders. \"The Argentine government will never succeed in any attempt to misrepresent the history of your islands or question your right to self-determination,\" the British prime minister promised.This provoked a sharp response from the Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, who said the British \"lion roars but does not inspire fear any more\".At stake is not just the vast maritime territory around the islands in the South Atlantic, but billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Fields now being developed around the Falklands are expected to bring in \u00a3200m-\u00a3300m a year.Argentina has tried to apply economic, legal and diplomatic pressure to prevent the extraction of those resources. Its congress recently passed a law that imposes criminal sanctions, including 15-year jail sentences, on people involved in \"illegal exploration of hydrocarbons in the Argentinian continental shelf\".The British government, which has 1,300 troops on the islands that were the fought over by the two sides in 1982, accuses Buenos Aires of bullying tactics.Despite the new secretariat and law, the situation for the islanders is thought unlikely to change. They have lived in economic isolation from Argentina for many years now and last year voted overwhelming to remain under British rule.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Falkland islands: Argentina appoints Malvinas secretary"},{"date": "2014-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In a Studies of Youth Literature class at the University of Buenos Aires, my teacher picked on me, the only native speaker, to read aloud from our copy of Roald Dahl's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Never has my rather ordinary south-east London accent been met with such raptures. I felt like a parrot who surprises their owner with a perfect rendition of Shakespeare's Sonnet Number 18. One girl told me I had \"beautiful sonority\". I was inundated with requests for conversation exchange. But, while Her Majesty's English was winning the hearts of my classmates, right outside the door of the classroom (my faculty being notorious for its political zeal) hung a disfigured picture of Margaret Thatcher emblazoned with the angry words: \"Brits Get Lost\", among other less savoury phrases.While living in Buenos Aires last year, I came to realise the importance of a good grasp of English for students and young, aspiring professionals in Argentina. Regardless of their attitude towards Great Britain more generally, verbally the British empire is still ever-present in Argentina today. In recent years, Argentinians, fervently patriotic by nature, have reluctantly acknowledged that learning English is crucial if they want to succeed in a country racked, as theirs is, with economic turmoil.Currently the Argentine economy is in dire straits, almost as bad as the crisis in 2002. Amid rising temperatures, rising tempers and rising supermarket prices, Argentinians, led by their president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, have become increasingly hostile towards foreign parties.Fern\u00e1ndez points the finger at those who refuse to bury the hatchet on the large international debts the nation has racked up in recent years. Not for the first time, Argentinians lamenting over extortionate costs find themselves cursing the colonial spectre under their breath.But Daniel Scioli, governor of the province of Buenos Aires, recently proposed one solution to the financial woes: create a secure labour and economic infrastructure by aligning with more stable international economies. And to enter into this kind of global trade, for the next few decades at least, you need to speak high-level English. Even in the face of this new crisis, there appears to be no choice but to embrace the enemy.Argentinian primary school children are taught to mistrust the English. Stories of British invasions, of Falkland travesties, of colonial rapes, are shovelled into the minds of youngsters like hot coals onto an already blazing nationalistic fire. And yet, in the barrio of Belgrano, the Chelsea of Buenos Aires, the up-market streets are lined with dozens of bilingual schools. The Language Faculty at the University of Buenos Aires offers three times as many classes for beginners' English than it does for neighbouring Brazilian Portuguese.In common parlance on Argentine streets are robust anglicisms such as \"a-full\" (meaning very busy: as in \"Today I am a-full\") and \"heavy\" (meaning intense: as in \"Studying medicine is very heavy\"). In fact, people who accidently bump into you while out and about will cry \"sorry!\" (with a rolled \"r\"). British culture is similarly ubiquitous, with Argentine pedestrians right, left and centre sporting Union Jack print T-shirts.This paradox between animousity towards Brits and desire to learn their language is a part of the age old internal battle between \"European\" civilisation and \"Latino\" savagery discussed at great length by Argentine great Borges. It is a paradox that today manifests itself in the location of several dubiously authentic \"Irish bars\" in the centre of town lining the aggressively named \"Malvinas Argentinas\" street.Last year I experienced at close hand the force of this paradox. To supplement my student-loan I took a job as a waitress and receptionist in one of the many Tango restaurant-show complexes in the city. Earning a pittance which would be illegal in the UK and at the beck and call of my boss, I came to appreciate the power I wielded simply by opening my mouth. Picking up the phone and offering an answer otherwise unremarkable save the fact it was delivered in native English was enough to send my boss into a fit of jealousy. He would sulk for 10 minutes, before cheering himself up by rudely demanding I empty the office bin, a childlike attempt to reassert the hierarchies of power that had crumbled at the sound of my native pronunciation.With this embarrassing and reluctant but apparently necessary assimilation of British culture and language in Argentina, no wonder Fern\u00e1ndez has adopted a defensive attitude towards the current crisis. Argentina cannot be blamed for wanting to rid itself once and for all from the still-devastating vestiges of colonialism, but neither can it be blamed for its people attempting to invest in stable, international economies.It now strikes me as obvious, although I didn't realise at the time, that as we sat in my class and I obediently read out a section of Roald Dahl, my peers didn't simply hear the dull tones of my normal speaking-voice, they heard the mysterious and exclusive sounds of international success: English \u2013 the golden ticket to sought-after economic stability.", "tags": ["Education", "Languages", "Argentina"], "title": "Despite a troubled history, Argentina still needs the English language"},{"date": "2014-03-07T17:08:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "US media mogul and CNN founder Ted Turner was flown to hospital in Buenos Aires on Friday for an emergency apendicitis operation.Turner had been vacationing at his mountain estate in Villa Traful, about an hour\u2019s drive from the ski resort of Bariloche in the Patagonia region of southern Argentina, when he was rushed to the San Carlos Clinic in Bariloche with acute apendicitis, doctors at the clinic said.\u201cWe offered to operate him here but he didn\u2019t want to,\u201d said a spokesperson for clinic.Turner, 75, then boarded a private plane to fly the approximately 1,000 miles to Buenos Aires, where he was due to have the operation later on Friday at the Instituto de Diagnostico hospital in the upscale neighbourhood of Recoleta.Turner bought his large mountain estate, some 5,000 hectares (over 12,000 acres), in 1996. Set on the foothills of the high Andes mountain range in Patagonia, Turner often goes trout fishing there.", "tags": ["CNN", "Media", "US press and publishing", "Television industry"], "title": "CNN founder Ted Turner hospitalised in Argentina for appendicitis"},{"date": "2014-01-24T20:02:27Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Following the sudden collapse in the peso this week, some Argentinians fear their country may be lurching into a new episode of the crises that seem to hit the country's economy almost every decade.Scrambling to protect the country's perilously low central bank reserves, which dropped 30% last year and fell below $30bn (\u00a318bn) this month, the government of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner seemed at a loss how to proceed.It started the week introducing tight controls on the purchase of online goods from abroad, to prevent Argentinians from spending dollars in ever larger quantities \u2013 especially on Chinese products which, as a result of 30% inflation, can be cheaper delivered to their door from abroad than bought at local stores.But on Friday the government seemed to do a U-turn, saying it would relax its grip on the dollar. From next week it will remove some of the controls it introduced two years ago which banned Argentinians from trading their pesos for dollars, a customary practice in a country with a long history of inflation.The dollar freeze paralysed the property market, which operates in dollars, but failed to stem the rush away from the peso. Instead it created a black market where the dollar has risen from eight to 13 pesos in the last year while the central bank continued using \u2013 and losing \u2013 reserves trying to keep the dollar in check.Its battle was ultimately lost this week in view of the peso's sudden collapse.Seemingly oblivious to the country's economic plight, Fern\u00e1ndez has referred to the last 10 years \u2013 since her husband assumed Argentina's presidency in 2003, and she took over in 2007 \u2013 as the \"victorious decade\".But this week's forced devaluation of the official exchange rate may make it difficult to continue repeating a slogan habitually used in speeches by government officials, printed on billboards and even emblazoned on a recent series of commemorative stamps.To 68-year-old Aida Ender, after 40 days without power in her eighth-floor apartment in the middle-class neighbourhood of Almagro in Buenos Aires, the slogan grates like a bad joke.\"There's no plan, the president is out of touch with reality, she's lost like Alice in Wonderland,\" says Ender, who has had to move out of her apartment, where she has had no water, no working lift and no refrigeration since 16 December. Her plight is shared by thousands of neighbours and even hospitals, in the middle of unusual summer highs of close to 40C.Economic observers blame the government's populist policies \u2013 including keeping utility prices artificially low to disguise inflation \u2013 for the power crisis. They say this has made it impossible for firms to invest in maintaining power lines.The government denies the charges and says that inflation is fuelled by anti-government businessmen.Argentina has been here before. A bout of hyperinflation in 1989 \u2013 when monthly price increases peaked at 197%, accompanied by similar massive and prolonged power cuts \u2013 caused the collapse of Raul Alfons\u00edn's government. Twelve years later, in 2001, a similar crisis forced the resignation of another president, Fernando de la Rua, and led to the largest ever foreign debt default.N\u00e9stor Kirchner pulled Argentina out of the crisis that followed and the ensuing vigorous economic growth continued under his wife, Fern\u00e1ndez.Voters responded enthusiastically, granting the couple three successive presidencies and comfortable majorities in Congress.But the glow is definitely gone now, obscured by runaway inflation, an alarming growth in crime and revelations of seemingly rampant corruption among the president's top officials.Those problems, together with a large trade deficit, have sent the peso crashing. It fell 11% against the dollar on Thursday, as the government allowed it to drop without announcing an official devaluation \u2013 something Fern\u00e1ndez pledged last year she would never permit. On Friday night it was down another 1%.With Fern\u00e1ndez practically absent from daily government since an operation to remove a blood clot from her brain last October, the government seems rudderless. Major announcements are left to her cabinet chief, Jorge Capitanich, another official who has been linked to alleged corruption, and economy minister Axel Kicillof, who is said to be behind the plan to let the peso lose value without officially announcing a devaluation.\"The government is at a stage of dangerous improvisation,\" tweeted former central bank president Mart\u00edn Redrado, who was fired by Fern\u00e1ndez in 2010. \"These measures generate only more paralysis and uncertainty.\"At least 11 people were killed and hundreds injured last month when a wave of supermarket looting spread across Argentina, fuelled by a combination of rising food prices and a police strike for higher wages.Just before Christmas, Fern\u00e1ndez celebrated the 10 years since her husband took office. It was one of her few appearances since her operation, and she danced with television stars in an exuberant ceremony in front of the presidential palace.The scene prompted radio host Diego Poggi to say: \"The truth is CFK (Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner) looks divine. Pity the country doesn't.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Currencies", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Peso collapse raises fears Argentina lurching towards decennial crisis"},{"date": "2014-01-24T09:30:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Leading shares are heading lower for the fourth day, with Aberdeen Asset Management the biggest faller.The emerging markets specialist has fallen 17.8p at 403.6p after Argentina's currency plunged as its central bank abandoned its policy of supporting the peso by intervening in the foreign exchange markets. Other Latin American currencies also came under pressure.SABMiller, which is also strongly represented in emerging markets, is down 76.5p at 2901.5p.With its recent run towards record highs, the FTSE 100 faltered again as inverstors decided it might be a good time to cash in some profits. The index is currently 20.27 points lower at 6753.01, with some of the optimism about global growth undermined by disappointing Chinese and US manufacturing surveys.In the UK, Bank of England governor Mark Carney seemed to be abandoning his forward guidance although he repeated there was no need for early interest rate rises despite falling unemployment levels.Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, said:Elsewhere Royal Mail is down 1p at 587p after it reported a 2% rise in sales for the nine months to the end of December, a performance some analysts said was slightly disappointing.Capita has shrugged off a report that regulators could make it pay \u00a3100m to investors in a fund it operated that collapsed, adding 4p to \u00a310.41.Cairn Energy has lost 12.1p to 250p after it said it had been contacted by Indian authorities to discuss income tax assessments relating to 2007. Cairn said it was co-operating to provide the necessary information and would update the market in due course. It has been instructed to hold its shares in Cairn India. Meanwhile Morgan Stanley cut its target price from 375p to 350p.", "tags": ["Business", "Aberdeen Asset Management", "SABMiller", "Royal Mail", "Capita", "Cairn Energy"], "title": "FTSE 100 falls for fourth day, with Aberdeen Asset hit by Argentina woes"},{"date": "2014-02-18T14:00:14Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "I am in Patagonia, sitting in the lobby of one of the finest hotels in all of South America. It is perfectly located in the Andean foothills on a green lawn surrounded by lakes and glorious snow-capped mountains, and today the skies are bright blue. Inside, the old wooden beams radiate warmth and opulence, and waiters in white shirts and mustard-coloured waistcoats attend to one's every need.A man in his late 30s and two slightly younger women walk through the lobby and are seated for lunch in the centre of the adjacent panoramic sun-room. They never notice me \u2013 they are too self-absorbed. Their dress is typically Argentinian \u2013 neat, but not stylish. He and one woman exchange glances through their dark sunglasses, while the other (likely his sister) looks on.White wine is poured, and glistens in the sunlight. They munch on gourmet delicacies from the salad bar \u2026 rarely smiling, often silent. At one point, there is definitely a more energetic exchange between the siblings \u2013 a little anger perhaps. At others, the sister picks up her smartphone and texts.The sunlight beams through from the spectacular landscape outside \u2013 but it generates little warmth. Eventually, they raise their glasses and have some sort of toast. However, there's clearly not much happiness here \u2013 not much joy at the wonder of it all, both inside and out.It's over, and he counts out a thick wad of peso notes to settle the bill. Then the couple get up and as they stroll outside to the viewing terrace, he kisses her quickly on the cheek. The sister, who hadn't quite finished eating, takes another gulp of wine and then gathers up her belongings and hurriedly follows. Where are they going? As a civilisation, where are we going if we don't relish the aesthetic value of such experiences?Meanwhile, Argentine annual inflation is at 30%, and the US dollar has official and illegal \"blue\" rates, both of which have risen 50% in the past year. Argentinians remember very clearly the dreadful economic crash in 2001 and in particular the television images of people taking food out of trash cans.Today in Buenos Aires the middle classes are queueing at the banks to withdraw their funds, but there's no sense of crisis at this hotel.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Argentina: peso passion"},{"date": "2014-01-07T16:17:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has opened a fresh bureaucratic front on the Falklands issue by creating a new government post of Malvinas secretary.The first holder of the position, Daniel Filmus, immediately accused Britain of double standards and condemned the occupation of the islands.At his swearing-in ceremony on Monday, the former senator for Buenos Aires said the creation of the post reaffirmed the government's commitment to resolving the dispute through peaceful, democratic means.\"Argentina is telling the world we are not a complete country. Argentina is a country that lives with colonialism in the 21st century, which we find totally unacceptable,\" he said.According to the foreign ministry, the new secretariat will design and co-ordinate strategies \"for the defence of Argentinian rights and interests as well as informing the world about Argentine rights\".The appointment comes amid an escalation of nationalist rhetoric between London and Buenos Aires.David Cameron said the UK was always ready to defend the Falklands in a Christmas message to the islanders. \"The Argentine government will never succeed in any attempt to misrepresent the history of your islands or question your right to self-determination,\" the British prime minister promised.This provoked a sharp response from the Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, who said the British \"lion roars but does not inspire fear any more\".At stake is not just the vast maritime territory around the islands in the South Atlantic, but billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Fields now being developed around the Falklands are expected to bring in \u00a3200m-\u00a3300m a year.Argentina has tried to apply economic, legal and diplomatic pressure to prevent the extraction of those resources. Its congress recently passed a law that imposes criminal sanctions, including 15-year jail sentences, on people involved in \"illegal exploration of hydrocarbons in the Argentinian continental shelf\".The British government, which has 1,300 troops on the islands that were the fought over by the two sides in 1982, accuses Buenos Aires of bullying tactics.Despite the new secretariat and law, the situation for the islanders is thought unlikely to change. They have lived in economic isolation from Argentina for many years now and last year voted overwhelming to remain under British rule.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Falkland islands: Argentina appoints Malvinas secretary"},{"date": "2014-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In a Studies of Youth Literature class at the University of Buenos Aires, my teacher picked on me, the only native speaker, to read aloud from our copy of Roald Dahl's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Never has my rather ordinary south-east London accent been met with such raptures. I felt like a parrot who surprises their owner with a perfect rendition of Shakespeare's Sonnet Number 18. One girl told me I had \"beautiful sonority\". I was inundated with requests for conversation exchange. But, while Her Majesty's English was winning the hearts of my classmates, right outside the door of the classroom (my faculty being notorious for its political zeal) hung a disfigured picture of Margaret Thatcher emblazoned with the angry words: \"Brits Get Lost\", among other less savoury phrases.While living in Buenos Aires last year, I came to realise the importance of a good grasp of English for students and young, aspiring professionals in Argentina. Regardless of their attitude towards Great Britain more generally, verbally the British empire is still ever-present in Argentina today. In recent years, Argentinians, fervently patriotic by nature, have reluctantly acknowledged that learning English is crucial if they want to succeed in a country racked, as theirs is, with economic turmoil.Currently the Argentine economy is in dire straits, almost as bad as the crisis in 2002. Amid rising temperatures, rising tempers and rising supermarket prices, Argentinians, led by their president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, have become increasingly hostile towards foreign parties.Fern\u00e1ndez points the finger at those who refuse to bury the hatchet on the large international debts the nation has racked up in recent years. Not for the first time, Argentinians lamenting over extortionate costs find themselves cursing the colonial spectre under their breath.But Daniel Scioli, governor of the province of Buenos Aires, recently proposed one solution to the financial woes: create a secure labour and economic infrastructure by aligning with more stable international economies. And to enter into this kind of global trade, for the next few decades at least, you need to speak high-level English. Even in the face of this new crisis, there appears to be no choice but to embrace the enemy.Argentinian primary school children are taught to mistrust the English. Stories of British invasions, of Falkland travesties, of colonial rapes, are shovelled into the minds of youngsters like hot coals onto an already blazing nationalistic fire. And yet, in the barrio of Belgrano, the Chelsea of Buenos Aires, the up-market streets are lined with dozens of bilingual schools. The Language Faculty at the University of Buenos Aires offers three times as many classes for beginners' English than it does for neighbouring Brazilian Portuguese.In common parlance on Argentine streets are robust anglicisms such as \"a-full\" (meaning very busy: as in \"Today I am a-full\") and \"heavy\" (meaning intense: as in \"Studying medicine is very heavy\"). In fact, people who accidently bump into you while out and about will cry \"sorry!\" (with a rolled \"r\"). British culture is similarly ubiquitous, with Argentine pedestrians right, left and centre sporting Union Jack print T-shirts.This paradox between animousity towards Brits and desire to learn their language is a part of the age old internal battle between \"European\" civilisation and \"Latino\" savagery discussed at great length by Argentine great Borges. It is a paradox that today manifests itself in the location of several dubiously authentic \"Irish bars\" in the centre of town lining the aggressively named \"Malvinas Argentinas\" street.Last year I experienced at close hand the force of this paradox. To supplement my student-loan I took a job as a waitress and receptionist in one of the many Tango restaurant-show complexes in the city. Earning a pittance which would be illegal in the UK and at the beck and call of my boss, I came to appreciate the power I wielded simply by opening my mouth. Picking up the phone and offering an answer otherwise unremarkable save the fact it was delivered in native English was enough to send my boss into a fit of jealousy. He would sulk for 10 minutes, before cheering himself up by rudely demanding I empty the office bin, a childlike attempt to reassert the hierarchies of power that had crumbled at the sound of my native pronunciation.With this embarrassing and reluctant but apparently necessary assimilation of British culture and language in Argentina, no wonder Fern\u00e1ndez has adopted a defensive attitude towards the current crisis. Argentina cannot be blamed for wanting to rid itself once and for all from the still-devastating vestiges of colonialism, but neither can it be blamed for its people attempting to invest in stable, international economies.It now strikes me as obvious, although I didn't realise at the time, that as we sat in my class and I obediently read out a section of Roald Dahl, my peers didn't simply hear the dull tones of my normal speaking-voice, they heard the mysterious and exclusive sounds of international success: English \u2013 the golden ticket to sought-after economic stability.", "tags": ["Education", "Languages", "Argentina"], "title": "Despite a troubled history, Argentina still needs the English language"},{"date": "2014-03-07T17:08:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "US media mogul and CNN founder Ted Turner was flown to hospital in Buenos Aires on Friday for an emergency apendicitis operation.Turner had been vacationing at his mountain estate in Villa Traful, about an hour\u2019s drive from the ski resort of Bariloche in the Patagonia region of southern Argentina, when he was rushed to the San Carlos Clinic in Bariloche with acute apendicitis, doctors at the clinic said.\u201cWe offered to operate him here but he didn\u2019t want to,\u201d said a spokesperson for clinic.Turner, 75, then boarded a private plane to fly the approximately 1,000 miles to Buenos Aires, where he was due to have the operation later on Friday at the Instituto de Diagnostico hospital in the upscale neighbourhood of Recoleta.Turner bought his large mountain estate, some 5,000 hectares (over 12,000 acres), in 1996. Set on the foothills of the high Andes mountain range in Patagonia, Turner often goes trout fishing there.", "tags": ["CNN", "Media", "US press and publishing", "Television industry"], "title": "CNN founder Ted Turner hospitalised in Argentina for appendicitis"},{"date": "2014-01-24T20:02:27Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Following the sudden collapse in the peso this week, some Argentinians fear their country may be lurching into a new episode of the crises that seem to hit the country's economy almost every decade.Scrambling to protect the country's perilously low central bank reserves, which dropped 30% last year and fell below $30bn (\u00a318bn) this month, the government of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner seemed at a loss how to proceed.It started the week introducing tight controls on the purchase of online goods from abroad, to prevent Argentinians from spending dollars in ever larger quantities \u2013 especially on Chinese products which, as a result of 30% inflation, can be cheaper delivered to their door from abroad than bought at local stores.But on Friday the government seemed to do a U-turn, saying it would relax its grip on the dollar. From next week it will remove some of the controls it introduced two years ago which banned Argentinians from trading their pesos for dollars, a customary practice in a country with a long history of inflation.The dollar freeze paralysed the property market, which operates in dollars, but failed to stem the rush away from the peso. Instead it created a black market where the dollar has risen from eight to 13 pesos in the last year while the central bank continued using \u2013 and losing \u2013 reserves trying to keep the dollar in check.Its battle was ultimately lost this week in view of the peso's sudden collapse.Seemingly oblivious to the country's economic plight, Fern\u00e1ndez has referred to the last 10 years \u2013 since her husband assumed Argentina's presidency in 2003, and she took over in 2007 \u2013 as the \"victorious decade\".But this week's forced devaluation of the official exchange rate may make it difficult to continue repeating a slogan habitually used in speeches by government officials, printed on billboards and even emblazoned on a recent series of commemorative stamps.To 68-year-old Aida Ender, after 40 days without power in her eighth-floor apartment in the middle-class neighbourhood of Almagro in Buenos Aires, the slogan grates like a bad joke.\"There's no plan, the president is out of touch with reality, she's lost like Alice in Wonderland,\" says Ender, who has had to move out of her apartment, where she has had no water, no working lift and no refrigeration since 16 December. Her plight is shared by thousands of neighbours and even hospitals, in the middle of unusual summer highs of close to 40C.Economic observers blame the government's populist policies \u2013 including keeping utility prices artificially low to disguise inflation \u2013 for the power crisis. They say this has made it impossible for firms to invest in maintaining power lines.The government denies the charges and says that inflation is fuelled by anti-government businessmen.Argentina has been here before. A bout of hyperinflation in 1989 \u2013 when monthly price increases peaked at 197%, accompanied by similar massive and prolonged power cuts \u2013 caused the collapse of Raul Alfons\u00edn's government. Twelve years later, in 2001, a similar crisis forced the resignation of another president, Fernando de la Rua, and led to the largest ever foreign debt default.N\u00e9stor Kirchner pulled Argentina out of the crisis that followed and the ensuing vigorous economic growth continued under his wife, Fern\u00e1ndez.Voters responded enthusiastically, granting the couple three successive presidencies and comfortable majorities in Congress.But the glow is definitely gone now, obscured by runaway inflation, an alarming growth in crime and revelations of seemingly rampant corruption among the president's top officials.Those problems, together with a large trade deficit, have sent the peso crashing. It fell 11% against the dollar on Thursday, as the government allowed it to drop without announcing an official devaluation \u2013 something Fern\u00e1ndez pledged last year she would never permit. On Friday night it was down another 1%.With Fern\u00e1ndez practically absent from daily government since an operation to remove a blood clot from her brain last October, the government seems rudderless. Major announcements are left to her cabinet chief, Jorge Capitanich, another official who has been linked to alleged corruption, and economy minister Axel Kicillof, who is said to be behind the plan to let the peso lose value without officially announcing a devaluation.\"The government is at a stage of dangerous improvisation,\" tweeted former central bank president Mart\u00edn Redrado, who was fired by Fern\u00e1ndez in 2010. \"These measures generate only more paralysis and uncertainty.\"At least 11 people were killed and hundreds injured last month when a wave of supermarket looting spread across Argentina, fuelled by a combination of rising food prices and a police strike for higher wages.Just before Christmas, Fern\u00e1ndez celebrated the 10 years since her husband took office. It was one of her few appearances since her operation, and she danced with television stars in an exuberant ceremony in front of the presidential palace.The scene prompted radio host Diego Poggi to say: \"The truth is CFK (Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner) looks divine. Pity the country doesn't.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Currencies", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Peso collapse raises fears Argentina lurching towards decennial crisis"},{"date": "2014-01-24T09:30:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Leading shares are heading lower for the fourth day, with Aberdeen Asset Management the biggest faller.The emerging markets specialist has fallen 17.8p at 403.6p after Argentina's currency plunged as its central bank abandoned its policy of supporting the peso by intervening in the foreign exchange markets. Other Latin American currencies also came under pressure.SABMiller, which is also strongly represented in emerging markets, is down 76.5p at 2901.5p.With its recent run towards record highs, the FTSE 100 faltered again as inverstors decided it might be a good time to cash in some profits. The index is currently 20.27 points lower at 6753.01, with some of the optimism about global growth undermined by disappointing Chinese and US manufacturing surveys.In the UK, Bank of England governor Mark Carney seemed to be abandoning his forward guidance although he repeated there was no need for early interest rate rises despite falling unemployment levels.Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, said:Elsewhere Royal Mail is down 1p at 587p after it reported a 2% rise in sales for the nine months to the end of December, a performance some analysts said was slightly disappointing.Capita has shrugged off a report that regulators could make it pay \u00a3100m to investors in a fund it operated that collapsed, adding 4p to \u00a310.41.Cairn Energy has lost 12.1p to 250p after it said it had been contacted by Indian authorities to discuss income tax assessments relating to 2007. Cairn said it was co-operating to provide the necessary information and would update the market in due course. It has been instructed to hold its shares in Cairn India. Meanwhile Morgan Stanley cut its target price from 375p to 350p.", "tags": ["Business", "Aberdeen Asset Management", "SABMiller", "Royal Mail", "Capita", "Cairn Energy"], "title": "FTSE 100 falls for fourth day, with Aberdeen Asset hit by Argentina woes"},{"date": "2014-01-24T16:59:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After moving within 65 points of its all time high earlier in the week, the FTSE 100 came down to earth with a bang.It fell 53 points on Thursday and another 109.54 points on Friday - its biggest one day fall since June - to finish at 6663.74. Over the week it has lost 165 points or 2.4%, its biggest weekly fall since the week ending 21 June.Earlier optimism about the global economy was dented by poor Chinese and US manufacturing surveys on Thursday, and a day later investors were rattled by a dramatic drop in the Argentinian currency, prompting worries about Latin America and other emerging markets. The currency falls came as Argentina's cental bank abandoned its policy of supporting the peso by intervening in foreign exchange markets, although it later regained some ground.The worries about emerging markets hit companies which are strongly represented in the area. Aberdeen Asset Management was the biggest faller in the leading index, down 24.1p to 397.3p while SABMiller lost 89p to \u00a328.89.Diageo dropped 26p to 1946.5p ahead of a trading update next week, amid speculation it could be on the acquisition trail.Japan's Suntory recently announced a deal to buy bourbon maker Jim Beam, and there had been some suggestions Diageo may look at breaking up the agreement with a bid of its own. But Elaine Coverley, head of equity research at Brewin Dolphin wealth management, said Diageo could also look at Brown Forman, the owner of Jack Daniels.Mining shares came under pressure again, in the wake of the Chinese data and a disappointing update earlier in the weak from BHP Billiton, down 33p at 1791.5p. Rio Tinto fell 74p to \u00a331.43, while Anglo American lost 40.5p to \u00a313.40 as it admitted it was losing around \u00a35.4m a day due to strikes at its platinum operations which began on Thursday.Elsewhere Royal Mail was down 15.5p at 572.5p after it reported a 2% rise in sales for the nine months to the end of December, a performance some analysts said was slightly disappointing.Lloyds Banking Group lost 1.67p to 81.36p on worries about the outlook for the bank and the prospect of the government selling its remaining shares this year, with analyst Ian Gordon at Investec moving his recommendation from buy to hold.Capita fell 11p to \u00a310.26 a report that regulators could make the outsourcing group pay \u00a3100m to investors in a fund it operated that collapsed, adding 4p to \u00a310.41.But mid-cap rival Serco added 6.5p to 509p as JP Morgan Cazenove raised its target price on the outsourcing group from 523p to 575p, saying:Cairn Energy closed 14.6p lower at 247.5p after it said it had been contacted by Indian authorities to discuss income tax assessments relating to 2007. Cairn said it was co-operating to provide the necessary information and would update the market in due course. It has been instructed to hold its shares in Cairn India. Meanwhile Morgan Stanley cut its target price from 375p to 350p.Aim-listed biotech group Akers Biosciences fell 75p to 397.5p as its shares returned from suspension following news it had successfully joined Nasdaq. The company raised $17m with a listing priced at $5.50 or 333p a share, and the funds will be used to help pay for clinical trials for its lung cancer test. The company has developed a breath based blow-tube which it believes can detect the presence of a tumour in the lung even at its earliest stages.Finally Optimal Payments fell 30p to 370p as IIU Nominees, a company controlled by Irish entrepreneur Dermot Desmond, and Aurum Nominees raised more than \u00a3160m by selling more than 44m shares in the online payments business at 365p via a placing run by Canaccord Genuity.", "tags": ["Business", "Aberdeen Asset Management", "SABMiller", "Diageo", "BHP Billiton", "Rio Tinto", "Anglo American", "Royal Mail", "Lloyds Banking Group", "Capita", "Serco", "Cairn Energy"], "title": "FTSE 100 drops nearly 2% on emerging market fears after Argentina problems"},{"date": "2014-02-18T14:00:14Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "I am in Patagonia, sitting in the lobby of one of the finest hotels in all of South America. It is perfectly located in the Andean foothills on a green lawn surrounded by lakes and glorious snow-capped mountains, and today the skies are bright blue. Inside, the old wooden beams radiate warmth and opulence, and waiters in white shirts and mustard-coloured waistcoats attend to one's every need.A man in his late 30s and two slightly younger women walk through the lobby and are seated for lunch in the centre of the adjacent panoramic sun-room. They never notice me \u2013 they are too self-absorbed. Their dress is typically Argentinian \u2013 neat, but not stylish. He and one woman exchange glances through their dark sunglasses, while the other (likely his sister) looks on.White wine is poured, and glistens in the sunlight. They munch on gourmet delicacies from the salad bar \u2026 rarely smiling, often silent. At one point, there is definitely a more energetic exchange between the siblings \u2013 a little anger perhaps. At others, the sister picks up her smartphone and texts.The sunlight beams through from the spectacular landscape outside \u2013 but it generates little warmth. Eventually, they raise their glasses and have some sort of toast. However, there's clearly not much happiness here \u2013 not much joy at the wonder of it all, both inside and out.It's over, and he counts out a thick wad of peso notes to settle the bill. Then the couple get up and as they stroll outside to the viewing terrace, he kisses her quickly on the cheek. The sister, who hadn't quite finished eating, takes another gulp of wine and then gathers up her belongings and hurriedly follows. Where are they going? As a civilisation, where are we going if we don't relish the aesthetic value of such experiences?Meanwhile, Argentine annual inflation is at 30%, and the US dollar has official and illegal \"blue\" rates, both of which have risen 50% in the past year. Argentinians remember very clearly the dreadful economic crash in 2001 and in particular the television images of people taking food out of trash cans.Today in Buenos Aires the middle classes are queueing at the banks to withdraw their funds, but there's no sense of crisis at this hotel.Every week the Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Argentina: peso passion"},{"date": "2014-01-07T16:17:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, has opened a fresh bureaucratic front on the Falklands issue by creating a new government post of Malvinas secretary.The first holder of the position, Daniel Filmus, immediately accused Britain of double standards and condemned the occupation of the islands.At his swearing-in ceremony on Monday, the former senator for Buenos Aires said the creation of the post reaffirmed the government's commitment to resolving the dispute through peaceful, democratic means.\"Argentina is telling the world we are not a complete country. Argentina is a country that lives with colonialism in the 21st century, which we find totally unacceptable,\" he said.According to the foreign ministry, the new secretariat will design and co-ordinate strategies \"for the defence of Argentinian rights and interests as well as informing the world about Argentine rights\".The appointment comes amid an escalation of nationalist rhetoric between London and Buenos Aires.David Cameron said the UK was always ready to defend the Falklands in a Christmas message to the islanders. \"The Argentine government will never succeed in any attempt to misrepresent the history of your islands or question your right to self-determination,\" the British prime minister promised.This provoked a sharp response from the Argentinian foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, who said the British \"lion roars but does not inspire fear any more\".At stake is not just the vast maritime territory around the islands in the South Atlantic, but billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Fields now being developed around the Falklands are expected to bring in \u00a3200m-\u00a3300m a year.Argentina has tried to apply economic, legal and diplomatic pressure to prevent the extraction of those resources. Its congress recently passed a law that imposes criminal sanctions, including 15-year jail sentences, on people involved in \"illegal exploration of hydrocarbons in the Argentinian continental shelf\".The British government, which has 1,300 troops on the islands that were the fought over by the two sides in 1982, accuses Buenos Aires of bullying tactics.Despite the new secretariat and law, the situation for the islanders is thought unlikely to change. They have lived in economic isolation from Argentina for many years now and last year voted overwhelming to remain under British rule.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Falkland islands: Argentina appoints Malvinas secretary"},{"date": "2014-03-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "In a Studies of Youth Literature class at the University of Buenos Aires, my teacher picked on me, the only native speaker, to read aloud from our copy of Roald Dahl's Charlie and the Chocolate Factory. Never has my rather ordinary south-east London accent been met with such raptures. I felt like a parrot who surprises their owner with a perfect rendition of Shakespeare's Sonnet Number 18. One girl told me I had \"beautiful sonority\". I was inundated with requests for conversation exchange. But, while Her Majesty's English was winning the hearts of my classmates, right outside the door of the classroom (my faculty being notorious for its political zeal) hung a disfigured picture of Margaret Thatcher emblazoned with the angry words: \"Brits Get Lost\", among other less savoury phrases.While living in Buenos Aires last year, I came to realise the importance of a good grasp of English for students and young, aspiring professionals in Argentina. Regardless of their attitude towards Great Britain more generally, verbally the British empire is still ever-present in Argentina today. In recent years, Argentinians, fervently patriotic by nature, have reluctantly acknowledged that learning English is crucial if they want to succeed in a country racked, as theirs is, with economic turmoil.Currently the Argentine economy is in dire straits, almost as bad as the crisis in 2002. Amid rising temperatures, rising tempers and rising supermarket prices, Argentinians, led by their president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, have become increasingly hostile towards foreign parties.Fern\u00e1ndez points the finger at those who refuse to bury the hatchet on the large international debts the nation has racked up in recent years. Not for the first time, Argentinians lamenting over extortionate costs find themselves cursing the colonial spectre under their breath.But Daniel Scioli, governor of the province of Buenos Aires, recently proposed one solution to the financial woes: create a secure labour and economic infrastructure by aligning with more stable international economies. And to enter into this kind of global trade, for the next few decades at least, you need to speak high-level English. Even in the face of this new crisis, there appears to be no choice but to embrace the enemy.Argentinian primary school children are taught to mistrust the English. Stories of British invasions, of Falkland travesties, of colonial rapes, are shovelled into the minds of youngsters like hot coals onto an already blazing nationalistic fire. And yet, in the barrio of Belgrano, the Chelsea of Buenos Aires, the up-market streets are lined with dozens of bilingual schools. The Language Faculty at the University of Buenos Aires offers three times as many classes for beginners' English than it does for neighbouring Brazilian Portuguese.In common parlance on Argentine streets are robust anglicisms such as \"a-full\" (meaning very busy: as in \"Today I am a-full\") and \"heavy\" (meaning intense: as in \"Studying medicine is very heavy\"). In fact, people who accidently bump into you while out and about will cry \"sorry!\" (with a rolled \"r\"). British culture is similarly ubiquitous, with Argentine pedestrians right, left and centre sporting Union Jack print T-shirts.This paradox between animousity towards Brits and desire to learn their language is a part of the age old internal battle between \"European\" civilisation and \"Latino\" savagery discussed at great length by Argentine great Borges. It is a paradox that today manifests itself in the location of several dubiously authentic \"Irish bars\" in the centre of town lining the aggressively named \"Malvinas Argentinas\" street.Last year I experienced at close hand the force of this paradox. To supplement my student-loan I took a job as a waitress and receptionist in one of the many Tango restaurant-show complexes in the city. Earning a pittance which would be illegal in the UK and at the beck and call of my boss, I came to appreciate the power I wielded simply by opening my mouth. Picking up the phone and offering an answer otherwise unremarkable save the fact it was delivered in native English was enough to send my boss into a fit of jealousy. He would sulk for 10 minutes, before cheering himself up by rudely demanding I empty the office bin, a childlike attempt to reassert the hierarchies of power that had crumbled at the sound of my native pronunciation.With this embarrassing and reluctant but apparently necessary assimilation of British culture and language in Argentina, no wonder Fern\u00e1ndez has adopted a defensive attitude towards the current crisis. Argentina cannot be blamed for wanting to rid itself once and for all from the still-devastating vestiges of colonialism, but neither can it be blamed for its people attempting to invest in stable, international economies.It now strikes me as obvious, although I didn't realise at the time, that as we sat in my class and I obediently read out a section of Roald Dahl, my peers didn't simply hear the dull tones of my normal speaking-voice, they heard the mysterious and exclusive sounds of international success: English \u2013 the golden ticket to sought-after economic stability.", "tags": ["Education", "Languages", "Argentina"], "title": "Despite a troubled history, Argentina still needs the English language"},{"date": "2014-03-07T17:08:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "US media mogul and CNN founder Ted Turner was flown to hospital in Buenos Aires on Friday for an emergency apendicitis operation.Turner had been vacationing at his mountain estate in Villa Traful, about an hour\u2019s drive from the ski resort of Bariloche in the Patagonia region of southern Argentina, when he was rushed to the San Carlos Clinic in Bariloche with acute apendicitis, doctors at the clinic said.\u201cWe offered to operate him here but he didn\u2019t want to,\u201d said a spokesperson for clinic.Turner, 75, then boarded a private plane to fly the approximately 1,000 miles to Buenos Aires, where he was due to have the operation later on Friday at the Instituto de Diagnostico hospital in the upscale neighbourhood of Recoleta.Turner bought his large mountain estate, some 5,000 hectares (over 12,000 acres), in 1996. Set on the foothills of the high Andes mountain range in Patagonia, Turner often goes trout fishing there.", "tags": ["CNN", "Media", "US press and publishing", "Television industry"], "title": "CNN founder Ted Turner hospitalised in Argentina for appendicitis"},{"date": "2014-01-24T20:02:27Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Following the sudden collapse in the peso this week, some Argentinians fear their country may be lurching into a new episode of the crises that seem to hit the country's economy almost every decade.Scrambling to protect the country's perilously low central bank reserves, which dropped 30% last year and fell below $30bn (\u00a318bn) this month, the government of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner seemed at a loss how to proceed.It started the week introducing tight controls on the purchase of online goods from abroad, to prevent Argentinians from spending dollars in ever larger quantities \u2013 especially on Chinese products which, as a result of 30% inflation, can be cheaper delivered to their door from abroad than bought at local stores.But on Friday the government seemed to do a U-turn, saying it would relax its grip on the dollar. From next week it will remove some of the controls it introduced two years ago which banned Argentinians from trading their pesos for dollars, a customary practice in a country with a long history of inflation.The dollar freeze paralysed the property market, which operates in dollars, but failed to stem the rush away from the peso. Instead it created a black market where the dollar has risen from eight to 13 pesos in the last year while the central bank continued using \u2013 and losing \u2013 reserves trying to keep the dollar in check.Its battle was ultimately lost this week in view of the peso's sudden collapse.Seemingly oblivious to the country's economic plight, Fern\u00e1ndez has referred to the last 10 years \u2013 since her husband assumed Argentina's presidency in 2003, and she took over in 2007 \u2013 as the \"victorious decade\".But this week's forced devaluation of the official exchange rate may make it difficult to continue repeating a slogan habitually used in speeches by government officials, printed on billboards and even emblazoned on a recent series of commemorative stamps.To 68-year-old Aida Ender, after 40 days without power in her eighth-floor apartment in the middle-class neighbourhood of Almagro in Buenos Aires, the slogan grates like a bad joke.\"There's no plan, the president is out of touch with reality, she's lost like Alice in Wonderland,\" says Ender, who has had to move out of her apartment, where she has had no water, no working lift and no refrigeration since 16 December. Her plight is shared by thousands of neighbours and even hospitals, in the middle of unusual summer highs of close to 40C.Economic observers blame the government's populist policies \u2013 including keeping utility prices artificially low to disguise inflation \u2013 for the power crisis. They say this has made it impossible for firms to invest in maintaining power lines.The government denies the charges and says that inflation is fuelled by anti-government businessmen.Argentina has been here before. A bout of hyperinflation in 1989 \u2013 when monthly price increases peaked at 197%, accompanied by similar massive and prolonged power cuts \u2013 caused the collapse of Raul Alfons\u00edn's government. Twelve years later, in 2001, a similar crisis forced the resignation of another president, Fernando de la Rua, and led to the largest ever foreign debt default.N\u00e9stor Kirchner pulled Argentina out of the crisis that followed and the ensuing vigorous economic growth continued under his wife, Fern\u00e1ndez.Voters responded enthusiastically, granting the couple three successive presidencies and comfortable majorities in Congress.But the glow is definitely gone now, obscured by runaway inflation, an alarming growth in crime and revelations of seemingly rampant corruption among the president's top officials.Those problems, together with a large trade deficit, have sent the peso crashing. It fell 11% against the dollar on Thursday, as the government allowed it to drop without announcing an official devaluation \u2013 something Fern\u00e1ndez pledged last year she would never permit. On Friday night it was down another 1%.With Fern\u00e1ndez practically absent from daily government since an operation to remove a blood clot from her brain last October, the government seems rudderless. Major announcements are left to her cabinet chief, Jorge Capitanich, another official who has been linked to alleged corruption, and economy minister Axel Kicillof, who is said to be behind the plan to let the peso lose value without officially announcing a devaluation.\"The government is at a stage of dangerous improvisation,\" tweeted former central bank president Mart\u00edn Redrado, who was fired by Fern\u00e1ndez in 2010. \"These measures generate only more paralysis and uncertainty.\"At least 11 people were killed and hundreds injured last month when a wave of supermarket looting spread across Argentina, fuelled by a combination of rising food prices and a police strike for higher wages.Just before Christmas, Fern\u00e1ndez celebrated the 10 years since her husband took office. It was one of her few appearances since her operation, and she danced with television stars in an exuberant ceremony in front of the presidential palace.The scene prompted radio host Diego Poggi to say: \"The truth is CFK (Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner) looks divine. Pity the country doesn't.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Currencies", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news", "Business", "Banking"], "title": "Peso collapse raises fears Argentina lurching towards decennial crisis"},{"date": "2014-01-24T09:30:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Leading shares are heading lower for the fourth day, with Aberdeen Asset Management the biggest faller.The emerging markets specialist has fallen 17.8p at 403.6p after Argentina's currency plunged as its central bank abandoned its policy of supporting the peso by intervening in the foreign exchange markets. Other Latin American currencies also came under pressure.SABMiller, which is also strongly represented in emerging markets, is down 76.5p at 2901.5p.With its recent run towards record highs, the FTSE 100 faltered again as inverstors decided it might be a good time to cash in some profits. The index is currently 20.27 points lower at 6753.01, with some of the optimism about global growth undermined by disappointing Chinese and US manufacturing surveys.In the UK, Bank of England governor Mark Carney seemed to be abandoning his forward guidance although he repeated there was no need for early interest rate rises despite falling unemployment levels.Mike van Dulken, head of research at Accendo Markets, said:Elsewhere Royal Mail is down 1p at 587p after it reported a 2% rise in sales for the nine months to the end of December, a performance some analysts said was slightly disappointing.Capita has shrugged off a report that regulators could make it pay \u00a3100m to investors in a fund it operated that collapsed, adding 4p to \u00a310.41.Cairn Energy has lost 12.1p to 250p after it said it had been contacted by Indian authorities to discuss income tax assessments relating to 2007. Cairn said it was co-operating to provide the necessary information and would update the market in due course. It has been instructed to hold its shares in Cairn India. Meanwhile Morgan Stanley cut its target price from 375p to 350p.", "tags": ["Business", "Aberdeen Asset Management", "SABMiller", "Royal Mail", "Capita", "Cairn Energy"], "title": "FTSE 100 falls for fourth day, with Aberdeen Asset hit by Argentina woes"},{"date": "2014-01-24T16:59:13Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After moving within 65 points of its all time high earlier in the week, the FTSE 100 came down to earth with a bang.It fell 53 points on Thursday and another 109.54 points on Friday - its biggest one day fall since June - to finish at 6663.74. Over the week it has lost 165 points or 2.4%, its biggest weekly fall since the week ending 21 June.Earlier optimism about the global economy was dented by poor Chinese and US manufacturing surveys on Thursday, and a day later investors were rattled by a dramatic drop in the Argentinian currency, prompting worries about Latin America and other emerging markets. The currency falls came as Argentina's cental bank abandoned its policy of supporting the peso by intervening in foreign exchange markets, although it later regained some ground.The worries about emerging markets hit companies which are strongly represented in the area. Aberdeen Asset Management was the biggest faller in the leading index, down 24.1p to 397.3p while SABMiller lost 89p to \u00a328.89.Diageo dropped 26p to 1946.5p ahead of a trading update next week, amid speculation it could be on the acquisition trail.Japan's Suntory recently announced a deal to buy bourbon maker Jim Beam, and there had been some suggestions Diageo may look at breaking up the agreement with a bid of its own. But Elaine Coverley, head of equity research at Brewin Dolphin wealth management, said Diageo could also look at Brown Forman, the owner of Jack Daniels.Mining shares came under pressure again, in the wake of the Chinese data and a disappointing update earlier in the weak from BHP Billiton, down 33p at 1791.5p. Rio Tinto fell 74p to \u00a331.43, while Anglo American lost 40.5p to \u00a313.40 as it admitted it was losing around \u00a35.4m a day due to strikes at its platinum operations which began on Thursday.Elsewhere Royal Mail was down 15.5p at 572.5p after it reported a 2% rise in sales for the nine months to the end of December, a performance some analysts said was slightly disappointing.Lloyds Banking Group lost 1.67p to 81.36p on worries about the outlook for the bank and the prospect of the government selling its remaining shares this year, with analyst Ian Gordon at Investec moving his recommendation from buy to hold.Capita fell 11p to \u00a310.26 a report that regulators could make the outsourcing group pay \u00a3100m to investors in a fund it operated that collapsed, adding 4p to \u00a310.41.But mid-cap rival Serco added 6.5p to 509p as JP Morgan Cazenove raised its target price on the outsourcing group from 523p to 575p, saying:Cairn Energy closed 14.6p lower at 247.5p after it said it had been contacted by Indian authorities to discuss income tax assessments relating to 2007. Cairn said it was co-operating to provide the necessary information and would update the market in due course. It has been instructed to hold its shares in Cairn India. Meanwhile Morgan Stanley cut its target price from 375p to 350p.Aim-listed biotech group Akers Biosciences fell 75p to 397.5p as its shares returned from suspension following news it had successfully joined Nasdaq. The company raised $17m with a listing priced at $5.50 or 333p a share, and the funds will be used to help pay for clinical trials for its lung cancer test. The company has developed a breath based blow-tube which it believes can detect the presence of a tumour in the lung even at its earliest stages.Finally Optimal Payments fell 30p to 370p as IIU Nominees, a company controlled by Irish entrepreneur Dermot Desmond, and Aurum Nominees raised more than \u00a3160m by selling more than 44m shares in the online payments business at 365p via a placing run by Canaccord Genuity.", "tags": ["Business", "Aberdeen Asset Management", "SABMiller", "Diageo", "BHP Billiton", "Rio Tinto", "Anglo American", "Royal Mail", "Lloyds Banking Group", "Capita", "Serco", "Cairn Energy"], "title": "FTSE 100 drops nearly 2% on emerging market fears after Argentina problems"},{"date": "2014-01-24T16:10:08Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Tourists in Argentina are suddenly finding their money will go a lot further than it did just a few days ago. The peso has gone into freefall, plummeting just over 17% against the dollar in two days.As an example, a seven-course tasting menu at HG Restaurant at the Fierro Hotel in Palermo, named as one of the 50 best restaurants in Latin America in 2013, now costs \u00a327 compared with \u00a336 a month ago.Hotelier Martin Rosberg, who runs the Fierro Hotel where the restaurant is based, explains: \"Argentina has suddenly got cheaper \u2013 and that's with the official rate, not the blue rate.\"Since the country's government introduced tough currency change restrictions on its people, a black market has emerged. In short, you can change your money at an official outlet for one price; or you can go to an unofficial trader and get it changed at the \"blue\" rate \u2013 which will put many more pesos in your pocket. Taking plenty of hard cash contradicts the usual advice to tourists travelling abroad, but many visitors to Argentina have been doing just that to take advantage of the black market rates.Numerous websites and Twitter accounts have emerged to keep visitors and locals up-to-date on the two parallel rates, such as @DolarBlue. Even newspapers report on the two, side by side. \"I've stood behind tourists in the bank, watching them hand over dollars to change them at official rate, and wanted to scream, Noooooo!\" says one expat, who has been working in Buenos Aires for over 10 years.So how do you track down the more favourable blue rate? Many foreign visitors set up a local contact who can make the change, or ask their hotel to recommend a \"cueva\" (literally meaning cave; in reality, more like fully functioning businesses, accepting dollars, euros and pounds). Other tourists simply head to central shopping streets and respond to not-so-subtle calls of \"Cambio! Cambio!\" (exchange); the wise ones having checked the current rate first, so they can barter.\"It was a pretty surreal experience,\" says one British tourist, who just returned from a trip to Buenos Aires. \"An acquaintance recommended a place was given an address, on the upper floors of an office building. I had to explain myself in very limited Spanish, but they knew what I was there for. It was a fully organised operation. It's not something you expect to do on holiday, but not really a problem, as it turned out.\"Dan Clarke, the director of RealWorld, a tour operator specialising in South American travel, offers this advice: \"Although changing money through non-official channels is illegal, it is a fact of daily life in Argentina at the moment. You can run the risk of ending up with some forged notes, but you'll also exchange at sometimes 30% better than the official rate. If possible, ask someone you trust \u2013 like a good local rep \u2013 for recommendations.\"If you want to stick to using US dollars in your day-to-day transactions, that's common too. The Argentinian market, which experienced a complete economic meltdown in 2001/02, has quickly adapted. Many businesses, including hotels and restaurants, will accept US dollars. Some will work to the blue rate, even though that is illegal, or they will come close to it. When a shopkeeper recognises you are a tourist, you are likely to be offered an upfront deal: \"We accept dollars at 12 pesos\", or something similar.The dual rate began after the government initiated a number of restrictions on currency exchange in an attempt to prop up the fledging peso and reduce capital flight (ie investors taking their fortunes out of the country). Argentinians have, of course, been hit much worse than any visitor. There has been a prohibitive amount of red tape they have to get through if they wanted to exchange pesos to dollars. If they wanted to use credit cards abroad, the government taxed them a whopping 35 per cent on each transaction.  Online shopping has also been curbed (Want a parcel from eBay delivered to your door? Forget about it). After the peso has gone into freefall, falling just over 17 per cent against the dollar in the last two days, the government is now scrabbling to relax some restrictions (those credit card taxes will fall to 20% from Monday).After a tough few years battling the effects of high inflation (believed to run at almost 30%), the tourist industry could experience a boom, as it did in the mid-2000s, when tourists were able to get more for their money and new boutique hotels seemed to open every five minutes.Meanwhile, Argentinians face the grim reality of yet another financial crisis.", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays"], "title": "Argentina, the peso and the 'blue dollar': what tourists need to know"},{"date": "2014-06-27T19:38:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A US judge has blocked a $500m (\u00a3290m) payment by Argentina to creditors due on Monday, pushing South America's second largest economy closer to a second massive default in 13 years.New York district judge Thomas Griesa said after a quickly convened court hearing that Argentina was in breach of his decision that US vulture funds, which have pressed for full repayment of their loans, were entitled to bypass a longstanding debt restructuring deal.The ruling, which enforces an earlier decision in favour of vulture funds seeking a $1.6bn payout, means that $539m of Argentina's scheduled debt repayments were stuck in Bank of New York Mellon, which as trustee was due to disburse the payments under the previous debt deal.A spokesman for the vulture funds called Argentina's attempt to pay rival creditors holding restructured bonds a \"brazen step\" that had forced them back to court. Robert Cohen, a lawyer for NML Capital, the lead hedge fund pursuing Argentina, had asked Griesa to hold the country in contempt of court.Argentina has claimed it will default if the US courts insist the vulture fund bondholders \u2013 many of which bought their bonds at a steep discount \u2013 are repaid in full.The court has only ruled in favour of the vulture funds, mostly hedge funds, but Argentina's economy minister, Axel Kicillof, made it clear this week that a deal covering the other 92% of bondholders would collapse and the country forced to default again if it was directed to favour the hedge funds.The Argentinian government, led by president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, published adverts in most major local newspapers explaining why it had rejected the court's ruling and needed to press ahead with the original payments to meet its obligations.The row is the latest in a long running battle between Argentina and a group of US hedge funds that bought the country's bonds after it defaulted on its debts in 2001. The hedge funds picked up the bonds at a fraction of their previous value and then demanded repayment in full.Argentina had already brokered a deal with the majority of bondholders, who accepted losses \u2013 called a haircut \u2013 on their holdings.Greisa made his first ruling last year in favour of the hedge funds, triggering a storm of protest from campaign groups which argued it set a precedent for other investors to wreck longstanding debt forgiveness deals with developing countries.Eric LeCompte, executive director of the debt relief group Jubilee USA Network, said: \"We are in the middle of a ping-pong match between Argentina and the holdouts. Unfortunately, as this battle continues in the courts, Argentina faces another default.\"Argentina defaulted on nearly $100bn of debt in 2001. It could decide to pay the vulture funds, but experts believe it would be unable to do that for all other bondholders and so be forced back into bankruptcy.There is no formal procedure in international law for a sovereign debt default. Argentina followed common practice by allowing the US courts to resolve how much should be repaid and when, under a bipartisan agreement between Republican and Democrat legislators.LeCompte said the lack of agreement in the US meant a pillar of support to resolving international disputes was under threat. \"I'm really worried about how this court precedent is promoting predatory behaviour and will hurt debt restructurings for poor countries,\" he said.Late last week, signs of a possible solution emerged when Fern\u00e1ndez said she would attempt to resolve all of Argentina's unpaid debts in one grand bargain. She planned to ask Griesa to impose a stay on debt rulings to allow the country to make payments to creditors of restructured bonds.Her note of conciliation helped lift prices of Argentine bonds.However, the vulture funds were incensed and persuaded Griesa to rule that if Argentina did not give the plaintiffs all the money due, it would be refused access to the US banking system to make its other interest payments.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Hedge funds", "Financial sector", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "US vulture fund ruling pushes Argentina towards second bankruptcy"},{"date": "2014-06-27T19:38:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A US judge has blocked a $500m (\u00a3290m) payment by Argentina to creditors due on Monday, pushing South America's second largest economy closer to a second massive default in 13 years.New York district judge Thomas Griesa said after a quickly convened court hearing that Argentina was in breach of his decision that US vulture funds, which have pressed for full repayment of their loans, were entitled to bypass a longstanding debt restructuring deal.The ruling, which enforces an earlier decision in favour of vulture funds seeking a $1.6bn payout, means that $539m of Argentina's scheduled debt repayments were stuck in Bank of New York Mellon, which as trustee was due to disburse the payments under the previous debt deal.A spokesman for the vulture funds called Argentina's attempt to pay rival creditors holding restructured bonds a \"brazen step\" that had forced them back to court. Robert Cohen, a lawyer for NML Capital, the lead hedge fund pursuing Argentina, had asked Griesa to hold the country in contempt of court.Argentina has claimed it will default if the US courts insist the vulture fund bondholders \u2013 many of which bought their bonds at a steep discount \u2013 are repaid in full.The court has only ruled in favour of the vulture funds, mostly hedge funds, but Argentina's economy minister, Axel Kicillof, made it clear this week that a deal covering the other 92% of bondholders would collapse and the country forced to default again if it was directed to favour the hedge funds.The Argentinian government, led by president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, published adverts in most major local newspapers explaining why it had rejected the court's ruling and needed to press ahead with the original payments to meet its obligations.The row is the latest in a long running battle between Argentina and a group of US hedge funds that bought the country's bonds after it defaulted on its debts in 2001. The hedge funds picked up the bonds at a fraction of their previous value and then demanded repayment in full.Argentina had already brokered a deal with the majority of bondholders, who accepted losses \u2013 called a haircut \u2013 on their holdings.Greisa made his first ruling last year in favour of the hedge funds, triggering a storm of protest from campaign groups which argued it set a precedent for other investors to wreck longstanding debt forgiveness deals with developing countries.Eric LeCompte, executive director of the debt relief group Jubilee USA Network, said: \"We are in the middle of a ping-pong match between Argentina and the holdouts. Unfortunately, as this battle continues in the courts, Argentina faces another default.\"Argentina defaulted on nearly $100bn of debt in 2001. It could decide to pay the vulture funds, but experts believe it would be unable to do that for all other bondholders and so be forced back into bankruptcy.There is no formal procedure in international law for a sovereign debt default. Argentina followed common practice by allowing the US courts to resolve how much should be repaid and when, under a bipartisan agreement between Republican and Democrat legislators.LeCompte said the lack of agreement in the US meant a pillar of support to resolving international disputes was under threat. \"I'm really worried about how this court precedent is promoting predatory behaviour and will hurt debt restructurings for poor countries,\" he said.Late last week, signs of a possible solution emerged when Fern\u00e1ndez said she would attempt to resolve all of Argentina's unpaid debts in one grand bargain. She planned to ask Griesa to impose a stay on debt rulings to allow the country to make payments to creditors of restructured bonds.Her note of conciliation helped lift prices of Argentine bonds.However, the vulture funds were incensed and persuaded Griesa to rule that if Argentina did not give the plaintiffs all the money due, it would be refused access to the US banking system to make its other interest payments.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Hedge funds", "Financial sector", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "US vulture fund ruling pushes Argentina towards second bankruptcy"},{"date": "2014-06-16T17:20:38Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Fears of a fresh debt crisis in Argentina intensified after a ruling by the US supreme court left South America's second biggest economy facing the choice of paying so-called \"vulture funds\" in full or risk a fresh debt default.Share prices fell by 6% at the start of trading in Buenos Aires and the price of Argentinian bonds fell after America's highest court refused to hear an appeal against a ruling by a lower court that came down in favour of creditors who bought up debt worth $1.3bn (\u00a3770m) at rock-bottom prices after the financial crisis of more than a decade ago.The ruling is the culmination of a decade-long legal battle in which Argentina has sought to avoid paying creditors who refused to accept the terms of a debt restructuring that followed the country's savage financial crisis of 2001-2.In an attempt to make the country's debt more manageable, the then government in Buenos Aires offered bondholders a deal in which they would get regular payments of interest provided they accepted a more than 70% reduction in the value of their investment. More than 92% of creditors agreed to the offer \u2013 in many cases reluctantly \u2013 but a number of hedge funds, spearheaded by Paul Singer's NML corporation held out.Argentina argued that the funds bought most of the debt at a deep discount after the default and have sought to thwart the country's efforts to restructure in two separate debt swaps in 2005 and 2010. The country, which grew rapidly after it devalued the peso and defaulted on around $100bn of debt in 2002 but has since suffered from uncomfortably high levels of inflation, is now under pressure to come to terms with the hedge funds before the next scheduled payments on the restructured debt at the end of the month. If it refuses or fails to do so, it would technically be in default.Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, was due to make a televised address in response to the US ruling early on Tuesday, but has until now adopted a hardline approach in the legal battle, warning that it was unable to pay meet both the demands of the hedge funds and its regular interest payments. The filing to the supreme court said that if forced to pay: \"Argentina will have to face, objectively, a serious and imminent risk of default.\"The bondholders disputed that claim, saying in their own court filing there was evidence presented in lower courts that Argentina could afford to pay.However, the prospect that Buenos Aires might defy the supreme court unsettled bond markets and sent the cost of insuring Argentina against default soaring.The \"upfront cost\" of a five-year credit default swap surged from 36% to 46% \u2013 meaning it would cost almost half the face value of a bond to insure it each year.In a second setback for Kirchner, the supreme court also ordered that commercial banks be forced to provide details of assets held by Argentina around the world.Argentina has been contesting an August 2013 ruling by the 2nd US circuit court of appeals in New York, which upheld a November 2012 ruling by US district judge Thomas Griesa. He ordered Argentina to pay the $1.33bn into a court-controlled escrow account.Debt campaigners expressed concern at the refusal of the supreme court to overturn the findings of the lower courts.Eric LeCompte, executive director of the religious anti-poverty organisation Jubilee USA, said: \"I am blown away by the decision. For heavily indebted countries trying to support extremely poor people, this is a devastating blow. These hedge funds are equipped with an instrument that forces struggling economies into submission.\"For 15 years, Republicans and Democrats have agreed that the world's poorest countries need to have their debt burdens reduced. Today, that bipartisan policy is threatened by the court's decision.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Bonds", "Hedge funds", "Americas", "World news", "Debt relief", "US economy", "Economics", "Business", "Financial sector"], "title": "Argentina debt crisis fears grow after US supreme court ruling"},{"date": "2014-07-31T10:25:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has fallen into default for the second time since 2001 after last-minute talks with \"vulture\" bondholders in New York failed to produce a deal overnight.At a dramatic press conference in New York on Wednesday night, Argentinian finance minister Axel Kicillof declared that Argentina would not be held to ransom by the holdout bondholders, who are demanding to be paid in full on debt which the country defaulted on in 2001.Kicillof said: \"We're not going to sign an agreement that jeopardises the future of all Argentines. Argentines can remain calm because tomorrow will just be another day and the world will keep on spinning.\"Shortly before the deadline, Daniel Pollack, the court-appointed mediator, confirmed that the talks had broken down. \"Unfortunately, no agreement was reached and the Republic of Argentina will imminently be in default.\"Earlier, the credit rating firm Standard & Poor's declared that Argentina was now in \"selective default\". The default comes two months after a US court ruled that Argentina must pay the holdout bondholders in full, saddling it with a bill of more than $1.5bn.The vast majority (more than 90% of bondholders) agreed to restructure debts in 2005 and 2010, taking a big \"haircut\" \u2013 a reduction of more than 70% in the value of their investments in return for regular interest payments.Argentina's last default, in late 2001, came after a major political and economic crisis; scores were killed in riots, and both the president and the economy minister resigned. But there was little sign of a panic in global financial markets this time, as the default was widely expected. However, it could add more pain for Argentinians, with the economy already in recession.Pollack said: \"The full consequences of default are not predictable, but they certainly are not positive.\"The holdouts \u2013 branded \"vulture funds\" by the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner \u2013 are US hedge funds spearheaded by the billionaire Paul Singer's NML Capital, an affiliate of Elliott Management, and Aurelius Capital Management.Steve Ellis, portfolio manager at Fidelity emerging market debt fund, said: \"We expect contagion to other markets to be fairly limited. This is a highly technical legal case and a selective default.\"Argentina was isolated from international capital markets for years so we don't expect the default to distort any global capital flows. However, there will be remaining risks around a longer term default which would have negative impacts on the Argentine economy. At this stage, the market will likely price in a delay of payments should the government continue to deposit coupon payments until they can reach a deal with the holdouts in 2015.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Financial sector", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Argentina defaults as debt talks break down"},{"date": "2014-07-31T10:25:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has fallen into default for the second time since 2001 after last-minute talks with \"vulture\" bondholders in New York failed to produce a deal overnight.At a dramatic press conference in New York on Wednesday night, Argentinian finance minister Axel Kicillof declared that Argentina would not be held to ransom by the holdout bondholders, who are demanding to be paid in full on debt which the country defaulted on in 2001.Kicillof said: \"We're not going to sign an agreement that jeopardises the future of all Argentines. Argentines can remain calm because tomorrow will just be another day and the world will keep on spinning.\"Shortly before the deadline, Daniel Pollack, the court-appointed mediator, confirmed that the talks had broken down. \"Unfortunately, no agreement was reached and the Republic of Argentina will imminently be in default.\"Earlier, the credit rating firm Standard & Poor's declared that Argentina was now in \"selective default\". The default comes two months after a US court ruled that Argentina must pay the holdout bondholders in full, saddling it with a bill of more than $1.5bn.The vast majority (more than 90% of bondholders) agreed to restructure debts in 2005 and 2010, taking a big \"haircut\" \u2013 a reduction of more than 70% in the value of their investments in return for regular interest payments.Argentina's last default, in late 2001, came after a major political and economic crisis; scores were killed in riots, and both the president and the economy minister resigned. But there was little sign of a panic in global financial markets this time, as the default was widely expected. However, it could add more pain for Argentinians, with the economy already in recession.Pollack said: \"The full consequences of default are not predictable, but they certainly are not positive.\"The holdouts \u2013 branded \"vulture funds\" by the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner \u2013 are US hedge funds spearheaded by the billionaire Paul Singer's NML Capital, an affiliate of Elliott Management, and Aurelius Capital Management.Steve Ellis, portfolio manager at Fidelity emerging market debt fund, said: \"We expect contagion to other markets to be fairly limited. This is a highly technical legal case and a selective default.\"Argentina was isolated from international capital markets for years so we don't expect the default to distort any global capital flows. However, there will be remaining risks around a longer term default which would have negative impacts on the Argentine economy. At this stage, the market will likely price in a delay of payments should the government continue to deposit coupon payments until they can reach a deal with the holdouts in 2015.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Financial sector", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Argentina defaults as debt talks break down"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:48:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has risked deepening its isolation among international lenders with a proposal to cut out a group of US hedge funds from sovereign bond payments.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced on Tuesday that the government was replacing its New York intermediary bank with the state-run Banco de la Naci\u00f3n.This would allow it to circumvent a New York judge's ruling that blocked bond payments to all creditors, after the country refused to reimburse a group of hedge funds which are demanding payment of their bonds in full.The new plan would allow Argentina to pay the so-called haircut bondholders who agreed to restructure their payments in 2005 and 2010 but have been unable to receive payments since the court ruling.The bond market meanwhile reacted negatively to the proposed change in jurisdiction, which the New York court may see as an attempted evasion of its decisions.Argentina's portion of the JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus widened by 22 basis points to 786 over US treasuries, marking an increase in risk perception.Argentina's plan for making payments on its sovereign bonds via a local bank aims to protect the vast majority of creditors who participated in two debt restructurings, the government said.The deadlock has kept the economically ailing country from being able to issue international bonds at a time of falling central bank reserves.Argentina slid into default on its restructured bonds last month after a New York court blocked an interest payment of $539m (\u00a3324m). The payment did not go through to investors because US district judge Thomas Griesa says restructured bonds cannot be paid unless the holdouts get paid at the same time.The $539m remains with intermediary Bank of New York Mellon. Argentina says Griesa overstepped his bounds by blocking the coupon payment, and is moving to ensure future payments go through local banks.\"The point is to protect the 92.4% of bond holders who participated in the exchanges,\" said the government's cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina moves to cut out US hedge funds"},{"date": "2014-07-31T10:25:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has fallen into default for the second time since 2001 after last-minute talks with \"vulture\" bondholders in New York failed to produce a deal overnight.At a dramatic press conference in New York on Wednesday night, Argentinian finance minister Axel Kicillof declared that Argentina would not be held to ransom by the holdout bondholders, who are demanding to be paid in full on debt which the country defaulted on in 2001.Kicillof said: \"We're not going to sign an agreement that jeopardises the future of all Argentines. Argentines can remain calm because tomorrow will just be another day and the world will keep on spinning.\"Shortly before the deadline, Daniel Pollack, the court-appointed mediator, confirmed that the talks had broken down. \"Unfortunately, no agreement was reached and the Republic of Argentina will imminently be in default.\"Earlier, the credit rating firm Standard & Poor's declared that Argentina was now in \"selective default\". The default comes two months after a US court ruled that Argentina must pay the holdout bondholders in full, saddling it with a bill of more than $1.5bn.The vast majority (more than 90% of bondholders) agreed to restructure debts in 2005 and 2010, taking a big \"haircut\" \u2013 a reduction of more than 70% in the value of their investments in return for regular interest payments.Argentina's last default, in late 2001, came after a major political and economic crisis; scores were killed in riots, and both the president and the economy minister resigned. But there was little sign of a panic in global financial markets this time, as the default was widely expected. However, it could add more pain for Argentinians, with the economy already in recession.Pollack said: \"The full consequences of default are not predictable, but they certainly are not positive.\"The holdouts \u2013 branded \"vulture funds\" by the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner \u2013 are US hedge funds spearheaded by the billionaire Paul Singer's NML Capital, an affiliate of Elliott Management, and Aurelius Capital Management.Steve Ellis, portfolio manager at Fidelity emerging market debt fund, said: \"We expect contagion to other markets to be fairly limited. This is a highly technical legal case and a selective default.\"Argentina was isolated from international capital markets for years so we don't expect the default to distort any global capital flows. However, there will be remaining risks around a longer term default which would have negative impacts on the Argentine economy. At this stage, the market will likely price in a delay of payments should the government continue to deposit coupon payments until they can reach a deal with the holdouts in 2015.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Financial sector", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Argentina defaults as debt talks break down"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:48:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has risked deepening its isolation among international lenders with a proposal to cut out a group of US hedge funds from sovereign bond payments.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced on Tuesday that the government was replacing its New York intermediary bank with the state-run Banco de la Naci\u00f3n.This would allow it to circumvent a New York judge's ruling that blocked bond payments to all creditors, after the country refused to reimburse a group of hedge funds which are demanding payment of their bonds in full.The new plan would allow Argentina to pay the so-called haircut bondholders who agreed to restructure their payments in 2005 and 2010 but have been unable to receive payments since the court ruling.The bond market meanwhile reacted negatively to the proposed change in jurisdiction, which the New York court may see as an attempted evasion of its decisions.Argentina's portion of the JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus widened by 22 basis points to 786 over US treasuries, marking an increase in risk perception.Argentina's plan for making payments on its sovereign bonds via a local bank aims to protect the vast majority of creditors who participated in two debt restructurings, the government said.The deadlock has kept the economically ailing country from being able to issue international bonds at a time of falling central bank reserves.Argentina slid into default on its restructured bonds last month after a New York court blocked an interest payment of $539m (\u00a3324m). The payment did not go through to investors because US district judge Thomas Griesa says restructured bonds cannot be paid unless the holdouts get paid at the same time.The $539m remains with intermediary Bank of New York Mellon. Argentina says Griesa overstepped his bounds by blocking the coupon payment, and is moving to ensure future payments go through local banks.\"The point is to protect the 92.4% of bond holders who participated in the exchanges,\" said the government's cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina moves to cut out US hedge funds"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:03:31Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Happy hour is now in full swing at The Temple Bar, a busy British-style pub in the upscale Palermo Soho district of Buenos Aires. Over a pint of artisan pale ale, a young economist, Martin Trombetta, admits it is hard to tell from where we are sitting that his country is now in default again.For many observers it is difficult to be sure whether this is even the case. Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, continues to insist that the country has not recently defaulted on its sovereign debt for the second time in 13 years, while her chief finance minister, Axel Kicillof, accuses all those who think otherwise of dealing in \"atomic nonsense\".\"We're in default all right,\" says Trombetta, a researcher in labour econometrics at the National University of General Sarmiento. \"Leaving all the legal minutiae aside, our access to credit \u00a0is null today. The markets have corroborated it.\"If the after-work crowd filling the pub don't seem particularly panicked by this, it may be because they have seen and heard it all before.\"I'm sure that a lot of people are worried and confused,\" says Trombetta. \"But they're already living in a country with the second-highest rate of inflation in the world [after Venezuela], and I think they're pretty used to Argentina's economic cycles by now.\" It may also be, understandably, that they don't fully understand all the legal minutiae.After almost 10 years of wrangling, the Kirchner government's US court battle against a small but powerful group of foreign creditors has become so internecine that even the presiding judge stands accused of misreading or ignoring certain terms of the swapped bonds in question.According to the judge, Thomas Griesa, of the New York district court, the clause of pari passu stipulates that all holders be treated as equal. While a majority of Argentina's creditors accepted a vastly reduced payout, or \"haircut\", on their bonds when the external debt was restructured in 2005 and again in 2010, a minority of \"holdouts\" made no such agreement.So, in Griesa's view, those investors \u2013 who own about 7% of the debt \u2013 have as much right to a return on the full value of their bonds as the 93% who settled for less.In June this year Griesa ordered a block on the transfer of $539m (\u00a3324m) in interest payments from Argentina to the \"haircuts\", ruling that the \"holdouts\" would have to be satisfied first.The Argentinian side (as Argentina has been referred to throughout the proceedings) argued in turn that Griesa was neglecting the \"rights upon future offers\" (Rufo) clause, which effectively inverts pari passu by prohibiting the full repayment of any one bond-holder without paying all the others the same at once.If Rufo were activated, the $15bn liability could clear out half the nation's already depleted foreign exchange reserves.So Argentina refused, the 30 July deadline for a settlement passed, and various ratings agencies downgraded the country to a status of \"partial\", \"technical\", \"restricted\" or \"selective\" default, all terms rejected by Kirchner and Kicillof. \"They will have to invent a new name,\" said the president.A name was duly invented by those who tended to blame the judge for this mess, and the hashtag #GrieFault has been trending on Twitter. On Tuesday, Kirchner used a national television address to announce plans to circumvent Griesa's ruling by making payments on its bonds via an Argentinian bank \u2013 a move that stunned the bond market.As the dispute has ground on the holdouts have become better known as vultures. The hedge funds involved, and especially Paul Singer, of Elliott Management, the figurehead of the lawsuit, are now characterised as enemies of the state in government-endorsed graffiti and official hoardings all over Buenos Aires which invite the population to pick a side: \"Patria o buitres\" (motherland or vultures). For most residents, this is no choice at all.As a card-carrying member of Partido Obrero, the Argentinian Trotskyist workers' party, Trombetta has no more sympathy for the \"vultures\" than anyone else. \"They knew what they were doing when they bought those bonds for pennies on the dollar, hoping to score big off a struggling country. They're like gamblers who try to sue the casino when they put a little money on black 31 but it came up red 32.\"Trombetta believes that, in political terms, the concept of sovereign debt is \"a mechanism of capitalist oppression\". Like many Latin American leftists he considers the borrowing of US dollar treasury bonds by the military juntas of the 1970s to be the \"original sin\" at the root of the region's economic problems.This view is relatively common in Argentina, where the outstanding national debt is contaminated by still-painful memories of the unelected dictatorship that first ran it up, and the later neoliberal governments whose failure to control it led to the domestic deficit crisis of 2001 and the biggest default in history.As an economist, though, Trombetta cannot bring himself to side with the president or her late husband and predecessor, Nestor Kirchner, who effectively legitimised the debt when he restructured it in 2005 and swapped the bonds for more favourable interest rates under New York law.\"To make this an ideological fight against the vultures seems entirely false to me,\" he says. \" And Griesa is not the enemy either. He gave the Kirchners nine years to solve this problem with the holdouts, and instead they spent all that time and money on bad economic policies leading nowhere.\"Others in the capital still cannot get their heads around the idea of Griesa having jurisdiction over their country.\"I'm an ordinary man, the man in the street,\" says Rogelio Dolavaraz, who owns the Don Pollo grocery shop in the middle-class neighbourhood of Nu\u00f1ez. \"I'm not familiar with all the details. But I don't agree that a judge from another country should be able to put us in checkmate like this. And his judgment will have repercussions because money has no borders. Money has no friends. When money is involved, the truth is silenced.\"Dolavaraz wants to know why Barack Obama is allowing this to happen. And he is not the only one to ask.Yet another legal clause, in the US constitution, could supposedly solve the entire problem.\"Under the principle of 'comity',\" the investigative journalist Greg Palast wrote in the Guardian in August, \"Obama only need inform Griesa that Singer's suit interferes with the president's sole authority to conduct foreign policy. Case dismissed.\"While Kirchner and Kicillof have seized on this, other commentators say there is no such mechanism in the US for executive override of a court decision. And three weeks into the default, the repercussions remain to be seen.Internationally, it is nothing new for Argentina to be labelled an economic disaster, and there was no stock market rout in Buenos Aires. The Buenos Aires index has been stable in response to Kirchner's hard line, and the world keeps turning as she said it would \u2013 though the bond market reacted negatively to her gambit on Wednesday.And if Kirchner prints more money to stay afloat through this crisis and maintain her public-spending programme, the country's already astronomical inflation rate is likely to rise yet higher and faster.The effects, as ever, will fall hardest on the poorest. On the outer edge of the capital in Villa 11-14 \u2013 among the biggest and most notorious of the surrounding shantytowns \u2013 Susana Arino, a volunteer drug rehab worker, says she does not doubt that the default \"will eventually affect the people around here\". She adds: \"You don't hear much talk about it because they've got bigger day-to-day problems, but it's not going to make their lives any easier.\"It is often claimed by Kirchner supporters that her party's social programmes have helped integrate the shanty dwellers, and by her opponents that she has simply bought the vote of Argentina's underclass. As a resident of the neighbouring Barrio Juan XXII, Arino says she has not seen much evidence of improvement since the catastrophic year of 2001, or the subsequent debt restructures of 2005 and 2010 that supposedly allowed the Kirchners to get poverty and unemployment under control.\"It seems to me things are getting worse again,\" Arino says, citing factory closures and layoffs as proof of a new recession now happening. She believes, she says, the country should just pay its debts. Even if it clears out the reserves? Arino shrugs. \"No one in this neighbourhood would ever see that money anyway.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US news", "Americas", "World news", "Inflation", "Economics", "Bonds", "Financial sector"], "title": "Argentina in latest debt default crisis pits 'motherland' against 'vultures'"},{"date": "2014-07-31T10:25:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has fallen into default for the second time since 2001 after last-minute talks with \"vulture\" bondholders in New York failed to produce a deal overnight.At a dramatic press conference in New York on Wednesday night, Argentinian finance minister Axel Kicillof declared that Argentina would not be held to ransom by the holdout bondholders, who are demanding to be paid in full on debt which the country defaulted on in 2001.Kicillof said: \"We're not going to sign an agreement that jeopardises the future of all Argentines. Argentines can remain calm because tomorrow will just be another day and the world will keep on spinning.\"Shortly before the deadline, Daniel Pollack, the court-appointed mediator, confirmed that the talks had broken down. \"Unfortunately, no agreement was reached and the Republic of Argentina will imminently be in default.\"Earlier, the credit rating firm Standard & Poor's declared that Argentina was now in \"selective default\". The default comes two months after a US court ruled that Argentina must pay the holdout bondholders in full, saddling it with a bill of more than $1.5bn.The vast majority (more than 90% of bondholders) agreed to restructure debts in 2005 and 2010, taking a big \"haircut\" \u2013 a reduction of more than 70% in the value of their investments in return for regular interest payments.Argentina's last default, in late 2001, came after a major political and economic crisis; scores were killed in riots, and both the president and the economy minister resigned. But there was little sign of a panic in global financial markets this time, as the default was widely expected. However, it could add more pain for Argentinians, with the economy already in recession.Pollack said: \"The full consequences of default are not predictable, but they certainly are not positive.\"The holdouts \u2013 branded \"vulture funds\" by the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner \u2013 are US hedge funds spearheaded by the billionaire Paul Singer's NML Capital, an affiliate of Elliott Management, and Aurelius Capital Management.Steve Ellis, portfolio manager at Fidelity emerging market debt fund, said: \"We expect contagion to other markets to be fairly limited. This is a highly technical legal case and a selective default.\"Argentina was isolated from international capital markets for years so we don't expect the default to distort any global capital flows. However, there will be remaining risks around a longer term default which would have negative impacts on the Argentine economy. At this stage, the market will likely price in a delay of payments should the government continue to deposit coupon payments until they can reach a deal with the holdouts in 2015.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Financial sector", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Argentina defaults as debt talks break down"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:48:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has risked deepening its isolation among international lenders with a proposal to cut out a group of US hedge funds from sovereign bond payments.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced on Tuesday that the government was replacing its New York intermediary bank with the state-run Banco de la Naci\u00f3n.This would allow it to circumvent a New York judge's ruling that blocked bond payments to all creditors, after the country refused to reimburse a group of hedge funds which are demanding payment of their bonds in full.The new plan would allow Argentina to pay the so-called haircut bondholders who agreed to restructure their payments in 2005 and 2010 but have been unable to receive payments since the court ruling.The bond market meanwhile reacted negatively to the proposed change in jurisdiction, which the New York court may see as an attempted evasion of its decisions.Argentina's portion of the JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus widened by 22 basis points to 786 over US treasuries, marking an increase in risk perception.Argentina's plan for making payments on its sovereign bonds via a local bank aims to protect the vast majority of creditors who participated in two debt restructurings, the government said.The deadlock has kept the economically ailing country from being able to issue international bonds at a time of falling central bank reserves.Argentina slid into default on its restructured bonds last month after a New York court blocked an interest payment of $539m (\u00a3324m). The payment did not go through to investors because US district judge Thomas Griesa says restructured bonds cannot be paid unless the holdouts get paid at the same time.The $539m remains with intermediary Bank of New York Mellon. Argentina says Griesa overstepped his bounds by blocking the coupon payment, and is moving to ensure future payments go through local banks.\"The point is to protect the 92.4% of bond holders who participated in the exchanges,\" said the government's cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina moves to cut out US hedge funds"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:03:31Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Happy hour is now in full swing at The Temple Bar, a busy British-style pub in the upscale Palermo Soho district of Buenos Aires. Over a pint of artisan pale ale, a young economist, Martin Trombetta, admits it is hard to tell from where we are sitting that his country is now in default again.For many observers it is difficult to be sure whether this is even the case. Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, continues to insist that the country has not recently defaulted on its sovereign debt for the second time in 13 years, while her chief finance minister, Axel Kicillof, accuses all those who think otherwise of dealing in \"atomic nonsense\".\"We're in default all right,\" says Trombetta, a researcher in labour econometrics at the National University of General Sarmiento. \"Leaving all the legal minutiae aside, our access to credit \u00a0is null today. The markets have corroborated it.\"If the after-work crowd filling the pub don't seem particularly panicked by this, it may be because they have seen and heard it all before.\"I'm sure that a lot of people are worried and confused,\" says Trombetta. \"But they're already living in a country with the second-highest rate of inflation in the world [after Venezuela], and I think they're pretty used to Argentina's economic cycles by now.\" It may also be, understandably, that they don't fully understand all the legal minutiae.After almost 10 years of wrangling, the Kirchner government's US court battle against a small but powerful group of foreign creditors has become so internecine that even the presiding judge stands accused of misreading or ignoring certain terms of the swapped bonds in question.According to the judge, Thomas Griesa, of the New York district court, the clause of pari passu stipulates that all holders be treated as equal. While a majority of Argentina's creditors accepted a vastly reduced payout, or \"haircut\", on their bonds when the external debt was restructured in 2005 and again in 2010, a minority of \"holdouts\" made no such agreement.So, in Griesa's view, those investors \u2013 who own about 7% of the debt \u2013 have as much right to a return on the full value of their bonds as the 93% who settled for less.In June this year Griesa ordered a block on the transfer of $539m (\u00a3324m) in interest payments from Argentina to the \"haircuts\", ruling that the \"holdouts\" would have to be satisfied first.The Argentinian side (as Argentina has been referred to throughout the proceedings) argued in turn that Griesa was neglecting the \"rights upon future offers\" (Rufo) clause, which effectively inverts pari passu by prohibiting the full repayment of any one bond-holder without paying all the others the same at once.If Rufo were activated, the $15bn liability could clear out half the nation's already depleted foreign exchange reserves.So Argentina refused, the 30 July deadline for a settlement passed, and various ratings agencies downgraded the country to a status of \"partial\", \"technical\", \"restricted\" or \"selective\" default, all terms rejected by Kirchner and Kicillof. \"They will have to invent a new name,\" said the president.A name was duly invented by those who tended to blame the judge for this mess, and the hashtag #GrieFault has been trending on Twitter. On Tuesday, Kirchner used a national television address to announce plans to circumvent Griesa's ruling by making payments on its bonds via an Argentinian bank \u2013 a move that stunned the bond market.As the dispute has ground on the holdouts have become better known as vultures. The hedge funds involved, and especially Paul Singer, of Elliott Management, the figurehead of the lawsuit, are now characterised as enemies of the state in government-endorsed graffiti and official hoardings all over Buenos Aires which invite the population to pick a side: \"Patria o buitres\" (motherland or vultures). For most residents, this is no choice at all.As a card-carrying member of Partido Obrero, the Argentinian Trotskyist workers' party, Trombetta has no more sympathy for the \"vultures\" than anyone else. \"They knew what they were doing when they bought those bonds for pennies on the dollar, hoping to score big off a struggling country. They're like gamblers who try to sue the casino when they put a little money on black 31 but it came up red 32.\"Trombetta believes that, in political terms, the concept of sovereign debt is \"a mechanism of capitalist oppression\". Like many Latin American leftists he considers the borrowing of US dollar treasury bonds by the military juntas of the 1970s to be the \"original sin\" at the root of the region's economic problems.This view is relatively common in Argentina, where the outstanding national debt is contaminated by still-painful memories of the unelected dictatorship that first ran it up, and the later neoliberal governments whose failure to control it led to the domestic deficit crisis of 2001 and the biggest default in history.As an economist, though, Trombetta cannot bring himself to side with the president or her late husband and predecessor, Nestor Kirchner, who effectively legitimised the debt when he restructured it in 2005 and swapped the bonds for more favourable interest rates under New York law.\"To make this an ideological fight against the vultures seems entirely false to me,\" he says. \" And Griesa is not the enemy either. He gave the Kirchners nine years to solve this problem with the holdouts, and instead they spent all that time and money on bad economic policies leading nowhere.\"Others in the capital still cannot get their heads around the idea of Griesa having jurisdiction over their country.\"I'm an ordinary man, the man in the street,\" says Rogelio Dolavaraz, who owns the Don Pollo grocery shop in the middle-class neighbourhood of Nu\u00f1ez. \"I'm not familiar with all the details. But I don't agree that a judge from another country should be able to put us in checkmate like this. And his judgment will have repercussions because money has no borders. Money has no friends. When money is involved, the truth is silenced.\"Dolavaraz wants to know why Barack Obama is allowing this to happen. And he is not the only one to ask.Yet another legal clause, in the US constitution, could supposedly solve the entire problem.\"Under the principle of 'comity',\" the investigative journalist Greg Palast wrote in the Guardian in August, \"Obama only need inform Griesa that Singer's suit interferes with the president's sole authority to conduct foreign policy. Case dismissed.\"While Kirchner and Kicillof have seized on this, other commentators say there is no such mechanism in the US for executive override of a court decision. And three weeks into the default, the repercussions remain to be seen.Internationally, it is nothing new for Argentina to be labelled an economic disaster, and there was no stock market rout in Buenos Aires. The Buenos Aires index has been stable in response to Kirchner's hard line, and the world keeps turning as she said it would \u2013 though the bond market reacted negatively to her gambit on Wednesday.And if Kirchner prints more money to stay afloat through this crisis and maintain her public-spending programme, the country's already astronomical inflation rate is likely to rise yet higher and faster.The effects, as ever, will fall hardest on the poorest. On the outer edge of the capital in Villa 11-14 \u2013 among the biggest and most notorious of the surrounding shantytowns \u2013 Susana Arino, a volunteer drug rehab worker, says she does not doubt that the default \"will eventually affect the people around here\". She adds: \"You don't hear much talk about it because they've got bigger day-to-day problems, but it's not going to make their lives any easier.\"It is often claimed by Kirchner supporters that her party's social programmes have helped integrate the shanty dwellers, and by her opponents that she has simply bought the vote of Argentina's underclass. As a resident of the neighbouring Barrio Juan XXII, Arino says she has not seen much evidence of improvement since the catastrophic year of 2001, or the subsequent debt restructures of 2005 and 2010 that supposedly allowed the Kirchners to get poverty and unemployment under control.\"It seems to me things are getting worse again,\" Arino says, citing factory closures and layoffs as proof of a new recession now happening. She believes, she says, the country should just pay its debts. Even if it clears out the reserves? Arino shrugs. \"No one in this neighbourhood would ever see that money anyway.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US news", "Americas", "World news", "Inflation", "Economics", "Bonds", "Financial sector"], "title": "Argentina in latest debt default crisis pits 'motherland' against 'vultures'"},{"date": "2014-08-07T11:19:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The \"vulture\" financier now threatening to devour Argentina can be stopped dead by a simple note to the courts from Barack Obama. But the president, while officially supporting Argentina, has not done this one thing that could save Buenos Aires from default.Obama could prevent vulture hedge-fund billionaire Paul Singer from collecting a single penny from Argentina by invoking the long-established authority granted presidents by the US constitution's \"Separation of Powers\" clause. Under the principle known as \"comity\", Obama only need inform US federal judge Thomas Griesa that Singer's suit interferes with the president's sole authority to conduct foreign policy. Case dismissed.Indeed, President George W Bush invoked this power against the very same hedge fund now threatening Argentina. Bush blocked Singer's seizure of Congo-Brazzaville's US property, despite the fact that the hedge fund chief is one of the largest, and most influential, contributors to Republican candidates.Notably, an appeals court warned this very judge, 30 years ago, to heed the directive of a president invoking his foreign policy powers. In the Singer case, the US state department did inform Judge Griesa that the Obama administration agreed with Argentina's legal arguments; but the president never invoked the magical, vulture-stopping clause.Obama's devastating hesitation is no surprise. It repeats the president's capitulation to Singer the last time they went mano a mano. It was 2009. Singer, through a brilliantly complex financial manoeuvre, took control of Delphi Automotive, the sole supplier of most of the auto parts needed by General Motors and Chrysler. Both auto firms were already in bankruptcy.Singer and co-investors demanded the US Treasury pay them billions, including $350m (\u00a3200m) in cash immediately, or \u2013 as the Singer consortium threatened \u2013 \"we'll shut you down\". They would cut off GM's parts. Literally.GM and Chrysler, with no more than a couple of days' worth of parts to hand, would have shut down, permanently;forced into liquidation.Obama's negotiator, Treasury deputy Steven Rattner, called the vulture funds' demand \"extortion\" \u2013 a characterisation of Singer repeated last week by Argentina President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner.But while Fern\u00e1ndez declared \"I cannot as president submit the country to such extortion,\" Obama submitted within days. Ultimately, the US Treasury quietly paid the Singer consortium a cool $12.9bn in cash and subsidies from the US Treasury's auto bailout fund.Singer responded to Obama's largesse by quickly shutting down 25 of Delphi's 29 US auto parts plants, shifting 25,000 jobs to Asia. Singer's Elliott Management pocketed $1.29bn of which Singer personally garnered the lion's share.In the case of Argentina, Obama certainly has reason to act. The US State Department warned the judge that adopting Singer's legal theories would imperil sovereign bailout agreements worldwide. Indeed, it is reported that, in 2012, Singer joined fellow billionaire vulture investor Kenneth Dart in shaking down the Greek government for a huge payout during the euro crisis by threatening to create a mass default of banks across Europe.The financial press has turned on Singer. Commentators in the Wall Street Journal and FT are enraged at the financier's quixotic re-interpretation of sovereign lending terms in the way that the Taliban interprets a peace agreement. No peace, no agreement.Singer has certainly earned his vulture feathers. His attack on Congo-Brazzaville in effect snatched the value of the debt relief paid for by US and British taxpayers and, says Oxfam, undermined the nation's ability to fight a cholera epidemic. (Singer's spokesman responded that corruption in the Congo-Brazzaville government, not his lawsuits, have impoverished that nation.)As if to burnish his tough-guy credentials, Singer has mounted legal attacks on JP Morgan Chase, Citibank, BNY Mellon, and UBS, demanding they pay him the money that Argentina had paid them over the last decade. Furthermore, Singer's lawyers persuaded the judge to stop BNY Mellon, Argentina's agent, from making $500m in payments to Argentinian bondholders.Surely the president would intervene. He didn't. He hasn't. Why?I'm not a psychologist. But this we know: since taking on Argentina, Singer has unlocked his billion-dollar bank account, becoming the biggest donor to New York Republican causes. He is a founder of Restore Our Future, a billionaire boys club, channelling the funds of Bill Koch and other Richie Rich-kid Republicans into a fearsome war-chest dedicated to vicious political attack ads.And Singer recently gave $1m to Karl Rove's Crossroads operation, another political attack machine.In other words, there's a price for crossing Singer. And, unlike the president of Argentina, Obama appears unwilling to pay it.\u2022 Greg Palast is author of Vultures' Picnic and has produced a series of investigative reports on vulture funds for the Guardian, the Nation and BBC Newsnight.", "tags": ["Vulture funds", "Hedge funds", "Business", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Republicans", "US constitution and civil liberties", "US economy", "Automotive industry", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US justice system", "US political financing", "US political lobbying", "US politics"], "title": "How Barack Obama could end the Argentina debt crisis"},{"date": "2014-07-31T10:25:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has fallen into default for the second time since 2001 after last-minute talks with \"vulture\" bondholders in New York failed to produce a deal overnight.At a dramatic press conference in New York on Wednesday night, Argentinian finance minister Axel Kicillof declared that Argentina would not be held to ransom by the holdout bondholders, who are demanding to be paid in full on debt which the country defaulted on in 2001.Kicillof said: \"We're not going to sign an agreement that jeopardises the future of all Argentines. Argentines can remain calm because tomorrow will just be another day and the world will keep on spinning.\"Shortly before the deadline, Daniel Pollack, the court-appointed mediator, confirmed that the talks had broken down. \"Unfortunately, no agreement was reached and the Republic of Argentina will imminently be in default.\"Earlier, the credit rating firm Standard & Poor's declared that Argentina was now in \"selective default\". The default comes two months after a US court ruled that Argentina must pay the holdout bondholders in full, saddling it with a bill of more than $1.5bn.The vast majority (more than 90% of bondholders) agreed to restructure debts in 2005 and 2010, taking a big \"haircut\" \u2013 a reduction of more than 70% in the value of their investments in return for regular interest payments.Argentina's last default, in late 2001, came after a major political and economic crisis; scores were killed in riots, and both the president and the economy minister resigned. But there was little sign of a panic in global financial markets this time, as the default was widely expected. However, it could add more pain for Argentinians, with the economy already in recession.Pollack said: \"The full consequences of default are not predictable, but they certainly are not positive.\"The holdouts \u2013 branded \"vulture funds\" by the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner \u2013 are US hedge funds spearheaded by the billionaire Paul Singer's NML Capital, an affiliate of Elliott Management, and Aurelius Capital Management.Steve Ellis, portfolio manager at Fidelity emerging market debt fund, said: \"We expect contagion to other markets to be fairly limited. This is a highly technical legal case and a selective default.\"Argentina was isolated from international capital markets for years so we don't expect the default to distort any global capital flows. However, there will be remaining risks around a longer term default which would have negative impacts on the Argentine economy. At this stage, the market will likely price in a delay of payments should the government continue to deposit coupon payments until they can reach a deal with the holdouts in 2015.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Financial sector", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Argentina defaults as debt talks break down"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:48:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has risked deepening its isolation among international lenders with a proposal to cut out a group of US hedge funds from sovereign bond payments.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced on Tuesday that the government was replacing its New York intermediary bank with the state-run Banco de la Naci\u00f3n.This would allow it to circumvent a New York judge's ruling that blocked bond payments to all creditors, after the country refused to reimburse a group of hedge funds which are demanding payment of their bonds in full.The new plan would allow Argentina to pay the so-called haircut bondholders who agreed to restructure their payments in 2005 and 2010 but have been unable to receive payments since the court ruling.The bond market meanwhile reacted negatively to the proposed change in jurisdiction, which the New York court may see as an attempted evasion of its decisions.Argentina's portion of the JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus widened by 22 basis points to 786 over US treasuries, marking an increase in risk perception.Argentina's plan for making payments on its sovereign bonds via a local bank aims to protect the vast majority of creditors who participated in two debt restructurings, the government said.The deadlock has kept the economically ailing country from being able to issue international bonds at a time of falling central bank reserves.Argentina slid into default on its restructured bonds last month after a New York court blocked an interest payment of $539m (\u00a3324m). The payment did not go through to investors because US district judge Thomas Griesa says restructured bonds cannot be paid unless the holdouts get paid at the same time.The $539m remains with intermediary Bank of New York Mellon. Argentina says Griesa overstepped his bounds by blocking the coupon payment, and is moving to ensure future payments go through local banks.\"The point is to protect the 92.4% of bond holders who participated in the exchanges,\" said the government's cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina moves to cut out US hedge funds"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:03:31Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Happy hour is now in full swing at The Temple Bar, a busy British-style pub in the upscale Palermo Soho district of Buenos Aires. Over a pint of artisan pale ale, a young economist, Martin Trombetta, admits it is hard to tell from where we are sitting that his country is now in default again.For many observers it is difficult to be sure whether this is even the case. Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, continues to insist that the country has not recently defaulted on its sovereign debt for the second time in 13 years, while her chief finance minister, Axel Kicillof, accuses all those who think otherwise of dealing in \"atomic nonsense\".\"We're in default all right,\" says Trombetta, a researcher in labour econometrics at the National University of General Sarmiento. \"Leaving all the legal minutiae aside, our access to credit \u00a0is null today. The markets have corroborated it.\"If the after-work crowd filling the pub don't seem particularly panicked by this, it may be because they have seen and heard it all before.\"I'm sure that a lot of people are worried and confused,\" says Trombetta. \"But they're already living in a country with the second-highest rate of inflation in the world [after Venezuela], and I think they're pretty used to Argentina's economic cycles by now.\" It may also be, understandably, that they don't fully understand all the legal minutiae.After almost 10 years of wrangling, the Kirchner government's US court battle against a small but powerful group of foreign creditors has become so internecine that even the presiding judge stands accused of misreading or ignoring certain terms of the swapped bonds in question.According to the judge, Thomas Griesa, of the New York district court, the clause of pari passu stipulates that all holders be treated as equal. While a majority of Argentina's creditors accepted a vastly reduced payout, or \"haircut\", on their bonds when the external debt was restructured in 2005 and again in 2010, a minority of \"holdouts\" made no such agreement.So, in Griesa's view, those investors \u2013 who own about 7% of the debt \u2013 have as much right to a return on the full value of their bonds as the 93% who settled for less.In June this year Griesa ordered a block on the transfer of $539m (\u00a3324m) in interest payments from Argentina to the \"haircuts\", ruling that the \"holdouts\" would have to be satisfied first.The Argentinian side (as Argentina has been referred to throughout the proceedings) argued in turn that Griesa was neglecting the \"rights upon future offers\" (Rufo) clause, which effectively inverts pari passu by prohibiting the full repayment of any one bond-holder without paying all the others the same at once.If Rufo were activated, the $15bn liability could clear out half the nation's already depleted foreign exchange reserves.So Argentina refused, the 30 July deadline for a settlement passed, and various ratings agencies downgraded the country to a status of \"partial\", \"technical\", \"restricted\" or \"selective\" default, all terms rejected by Kirchner and Kicillof. \"They will have to invent a new name,\" said the president.A name was duly invented by those who tended to blame the judge for this mess, and the hashtag #GrieFault has been trending on Twitter. On Tuesday, Kirchner used a national television address to announce plans to circumvent Griesa's ruling by making payments on its bonds via an Argentinian bank \u2013 a move that stunned the bond market.As the dispute has ground on the holdouts have become better known as vultures. The hedge funds involved, and especially Paul Singer, of Elliott Management, the figurehead of the lawsuit, are now characterised as enemies of the state in government-endorsed graffiti and official hoardings all over Buenos Aires which invite the population to pick a side: \"Patria o buitres\" (motherland or vultures). For most residents, this is no choice at all.As a card-carrying member of Partido Obrero, the Argentinian Trotskyist workers' party, Trombetta has no more sympathy for the \"vultures\" than anyone else. \"They knew what they were doing when they bought those bonds for pennies on the dollar, hoping to score big off a struggling country. They're like gamblers who try to sue the casino when they put a little money on black 31 but it came up red 32.\"Trombetta believes that, in political terms, the concept of sovereign debt is \"a mechanism of capitalist oppression\". Like many Latin American leftists he considers the borrowing of US dollar treasury bonds by the military juntas of the 1970s to be the \"original sin\" at the root of the region's economic problems.This view is relatively common in Argentina, where the outstanding national debt is contaminated by still-painful memories of the unelected dictatorship that first ran it up, and the later neoliberal governments whose failure to control it led to the domestic deficit crisis of 2001 and the biggest default in history.As an economist, though, Trombetta cannot bring himself to side with the president or her late husband and predecessor, Nestor Kirchner, who effectively legitimised the debt when he restructured it in 2005 and swapped the bonds for more favourable interest rates under New York law.\"To make this an ideological fight against the vultures seems entirely false to me,\" he says. \" And Griesa is not the enemy either. He gave the Kirchners nine years to solve this problem with the holdouts, and instead they spent all that time and money on bad economic policies leading nowhere.\"Others in the capital still cannot get their heads around the idea of Griesa having jurisdiction over their country.\"I'm an ordinary man, the man in the street,\" says Rogelio Dolavaraz, who owns the Don Pollo grocery shop in the middle-class neighbourhood of Nu\u00f1ez. \"I'm not familiar with all the details. But I don't agree that a judge from another country should be able to put us in checkmate like this. And his judgment will have repercussions because money has no borders. Money has no friends. When money is involved, the truth is silenced.\"Dolavaraz wants to know why Barack Obama is allowing this to happen. And he is not the only one to ask.Yet another legal clause, in the US constitution, could supposedly solve the entire problem.\"Under the principle of 'comity',\" the investigative journalist Greg Palast wrote in the Guardian in August, \"Obama only need inform Griesa that Singer's suit interferes with the president's sole authority to conduct foreign policy. Case dismissed.\"While Kirchner and Kicillof have seized on this, other commentators say there is no such mechanism in the US for executive override of a court decision. And three weeks into the default, the repercussions remain to be seen.Internationally, it is nothing new for Argentina to be labelled an economic disaster, and there was no stock market rout in Buenos Aires. The Buenos Aires index has been stable in response to Kirchner's hard line, and the world keeps turning as she said it would \u2013 though the bond market reacted negatively to her gambit on Wednesday.And if Kirchner prints more money to stay afloat through this crisis and maintain her public-spending programme, the country's already astronomical inflation rate is likely to rise yet higher and faster.The effects, as ever, will fall hardest on the poorest. On the outer edge of the capital in Villa 11-14 \u2013 among the biggest and most notorious of the surrounding shantytowns \u2013 Susana Arino, a volunteer drug rehab worker, says she does not doubt that the default \"will eventually affect the people around here\". She adds: \"You don't hear much talk about it because they've got bigger day-to-day problems, but it's not going to make their lives any easier.\"It is often claimed by Kirchner supporters that her party's social programmes have helped integrate the shanty dwellers, and by her opponents that she has simply bought the vote of Argentina's underclass. As a resident of the neighbouring Barrio Juan XXII, Arino says she has not seen much evidence of improvement since the catastrophic year of 2001, or the subsequent debt restructures of 2005 and 2010 that supposedly allowed the Kirchners to get poverty and unemployment under control.\"It seems to me things are getting worse again,\" Arino says, citing factory closures and layoffs as proof of a new recession now happening. She believes, she says, the country should just pay its debts. Even if it clears out the reserves? Arino shrugs. \"No one in this neighbourhood would ever see that money anyway.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US news", "Americas", "World news", "Inflation", "Economics", "Bonds", "Financial sector"], "title": "Argentina in latest debt default crisis pits 'motherland' against 'vultures'"},{"date": "2014-08-07T11:19:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The \"vulture\" financier now threatening to devour Argentina can be stopped dead by a simple note to the courts from Barack Obama. But the president, while officially supporting Argentina, has not done this one thing that could save Buenos Aires from default.Obama could prevent vulture hedge-fund billionaire Paul Singer from collecting a single penny from Argentina by invoking the long-established authority granted presidents by the US constitution's \"Separation of Powers\" clause. Under the principle known as \"comity\", Obama only need inform US federal judge Thomas Griesa that Singer's suit interferes with the president's sole authority to conduct foreign policy. Case dismissed.Indeed, President George W Bush invoked this power against the very same hedge fund now threatening Argentina. Bush blocked Singer's seizure of Congo-Brazzaville's US property, despite the fact that the hedge fund chief is one of the largest, and most influential, contributors to Republican candidates.Notably, an appeals court warned this very judge, 30 years ago, to heed the directive of a president invoking his foreign policy powers. In the Singer case, the US state department did inform Judge Griesa that the Obama administration agreed with Argentina's legal arguments; but the president never invoked the magical, vulture-stopping clause.Obama's devastating hesitation is no surprise. It repeats the president's capitulation to Singer the last time they went mano a mano. It was 2009. Singer, through a brilliantly complex financial manoeuvre, took control of Delphi Automotive, the sole supplier of most of the auto parts needed by General Motors and Chrysler. Both auto firms were already in bankruptcy.Singer and co-investors demanded the US Treasury pay them billions, including $350m (\u00a3200m) in cash immediately, or \u2013 as the Singer consortium threatened \u2013 \"we'll shut you down\". They would cut off GM's parts. Literally.GM and Chrysler, with no more than a couple of days' worth of parts to hand, would have shut down, permanently;forced into liquidation.Obama's negotiator, Treasury deputy Steven Rattner, called the vulture funds' demand \"extortion\" \u2013 a characterisation of Singer repeated last week by Argentina President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner.But while Fern\u00e1ndez declared \"I cannot as president submit the country to such extortion,\" Obama submitted within days. Ultimately, the US Treasury quietly paid the Singer consortium a cool $12.9bn in cash and subsidies from the US Treasury's auto bailout fund.Singer responded to Obama's largesse by quickly shutting down 25 of Delphi's 29 US auto parts plants, shifting 25,000 jobs to Asia. Singer's Elliott Management pocketed $1.29bn of which Singer personally garnered the lion's share.In the case of Argentina, Obama certainly has reason to act. The US State Department warned the judge that adopting Singer's legal theories would imperil sovereign bailout agreements worldwide. Indeed, it is reported that, in 2012, Singer joined fellow billionaire vulture investor Kenneth Dart in shaking down the Greek government for a huge payout during the euro crisis by threatening to create a mass default of banks across Europe.The financial press has turned on Singer. Commentators in the Wall Street Journal and FT are enraged at the financier's quixotic re-interpretation of sovereign lending terms in the way that the Taliban interprets a peace agreement. No peace, no agreement.Singer has certainly earned his vulture feathers. His attack on Congo-Brazzaville in effect snatched the value of the debt relief paid for by US and British taxpayers and, says Oxfam, undermined the nation's ability to fight a cholera epidemic. (Singer's spokesman responded that corruption in the Congo-Brazzaville government, not his lawsuits, have impoverished that nation.)As if to burnish his tough-guy credentials, Singer has mounted legal attacks on JP Morgan Chase, Citibank, BNY Mellon, and UBS, demanding they pay him the money that Argentina had paid them over the last decade. Furthermore, Singer's lawyers persuaded the judge to stop BNY Mellon, Argentina's agent, from making $500m in payments to Argentinian bondholders.Surely the president would intervene. He didn't. He hasn't. Why?I'm not a psychologist. But this we know: since taking on Argentina, Singer has unlocked his billion-dollar bank account, becoming the biggest donor to New York Republican causes. He is a founder of Restore Our Future, a billionaire boys club, channelling the funds of Bill Koch and other Richie Rich-kid Republicans into a fearsome war-chest dedicated to vicious political attack ads.And Singer recently gave $1m to Karl Rove's Crossroads operation, another political attack machine.In other words, there's a price for crossing Singer. And, unlike the president of Argentina, Obama appears unwilling to pay it.\u2022 Greg Palast is author of Vultures' Picnic and has produced a series of investigative reports on vulture funds for the Guardian, the Nation and BBC Newsnight.", "tags": ["Vulture funds", "Hedge funds", "Business", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Republicans", "US constitution and civil liberties", "US economy", "Automotive industry", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US justice system", "US political financing", "US political lobbying", "US politics"], "title": "How Barack Obama could end the Argentina debt crisis"},{"date": "2014-07-29T18:32:44Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is on the brink of its second debt default since the turn of the century, as hopes fade that last-minute talks will hammer out a deal with \"vulture fund\" bondholders. Argentinian officials met a US mediator in New York in the latest chapter of a decade-long debt battle with hedge funds that bought up the country's bonds at rock-bottom prices in the wake of its financial crisis in 2001 and 2002.The creditors are demanding full repayment on their investments, having refused to join the vast majority of Argentina's bondholders in accepting debt restructuring deals in 2005 and 2010 that would have seen their value slashed.The value of the bonds, plus interest accrued, is more than $1.5bn (\u00a3885m), which a US judge says is due to the so-called holdout bondholders.If Argentina fails to or refuses to pay that amount by Wednesday, it will technically be defaulting on its debt obligations. It would be the second time in only 12 years, after the country defaulted on around $100bn of debt during its previous crisis.Analysts said a technical default looked likely given the scant progress on any kind of agreement in recent weeks, but there were reassurances that it would have few repercussions for global markets.There were pleas from some of the exchange bondholders hoping to avert a default and years more of legal wrangling. \"A default would undo much of the work this court has accomplished over the last 10 years and extend litigation here and around the world for years on end,\" Reuters reported them as saying.Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said the impact on other countries would be limited because of Argentina's effective isolation from international markets for over a decade. \"While default is always regrettable, we do not believe that it would have major substantive consequences outside, on a much broader basis,\" she said on Tuesday night.\"The outcome of the legal decisions that are being made in New York at the moment \u2026 have much broader significance,\" Reuters quoted her as saying. \"The debt restructuring principles and the efficiency of collective action clauses will have to be reviewed,\" she said, alluding to work the IMF has done on sovereign debt contracts and how to deal with post-default issues.Unlike the last default when Argentina was unable to pay, this time it would be more on a point of principle rather than out of necessity. The government has said, however, that it cannot afford to pay the holdouts in full and meet its other interest payments. The US hedge funds contest this and have accused Argentina's government of refusing to begin talks.Branded vulture funds by Argentina and debt campaigners, the creditors holding out for full repayment are New York hedge funds spearheaded by the billionaire Paul Singer's NML Capital, an affiliate of Elliott Management, and Aurelius Capital Management. They make up a small proportion of the country's creditors.More than 92% of Argentina's bondholders agreed to deals in 2005 and 2010, under which they would get regular interest payments provided they accepted a reduction of more than 70% in the value of their investment, known as a haircut.The government attempted to pay the holders of restructured debt their latest interest payment at the end of June, but were barred from doing so by a judge in the US, where the legal battle with the holdouts has taken place. The US district judge Thomas Griesa has said it would be illegal for Argentina to make a payment to the bondholders without also paying more than $1.5bn to the holdouts.Argentina now appears to have reached the end of the road on averting a fresh default. The latest deadline marks the end of a 30-day grace period beyond which the latest instalment was due to the creditors who restructured in 2005 and 2010, also known as exchange bondholders.Argentina has suffered a number of setbacks in US courts, the latest being last month when the US supreme court refused to hear an appeal against a lower court's rulingthat came down in favour of the holdout creditors.The country's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, fears that any deal to pay more to the hedge funds could trigger lawsuits from other bondholders demanding to be paid on similar terms. Her government estimates that the liability could run as high as $15bn.Debt campaigners have said that the rulings in the US have implications well beyond Argentina by undoing years of progress in reducing debt burdens on poor countries. They say a victory for the holdouts would set a precedent for other investors to wreck long-standing debt forgiveness deals with developing countries.As Argentina stares down the barrel of a default, the government of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez seems unperturbed by its likely economic consequences. It is almost relishing what it sees as a valiant stand against capitalist imperialism by refusing to pay the holdouts.\"Cristina has grown with this as [General] Galtieri did during the Falkands War,\" said opposition leader Elisa Carri\u00f3. \"We Argentines love to applaud this kind of behaviour, but afterwards we end up crying.\"Buenos Aires awoke on Tuesday to billboards reading \"Griesa or Cristina\", in reference to New York Judge Thomas Griesa, who has ordered Argentina to pay the holdouts. Meanwhile, the government maintains that the likely default will have no negative consequences.\"We are not going to have any problem on the 30th,\" said Axel Kiciloff, Argentina's economy minister. Speaking at a meeting of South American economy ministers in Buenos Aires, he blamed Argentina's current crisis on \"attacks by speculators supported by central nations. We will not give in to blackmail.\" He described Griesa's ruling as \"unprecedented, unheard of, incomprehensible and uncompliable\". The court-sponsored mediation talks with the holdouts that he attended in New York he described as \"a jigsaw puzzle, a tongue twister\".Business leaders disagree. \"We have a minister who says it's the same whether we go into default or not,\" said H\u00e9ctor M\u00e9ndez, head of the UIA industrial union. \"The economy is in bad shape. All sectors of industry are showing important slowdowns, with an average of 25%.\"A survey of Argentine business leaders found that the outlook of 51% of respondents was negative. Carri\u00f3, a legislator of the middle-of-the-road UNEN political party, last night laughed off the government's claim that there can be no real default because it has paid restructured bond holders.\"We owe the grocer, but we also owe the butcher,\" said Carri\u00f3. \"The butcher is very mean, but we owe him. Cristina [Fern\u00e1ndez] say she already paid, but who did you pay? You paid the grocer, but if you don't pay the butcher as well they won't unblock your funds. What Cristina doesn't take into account is the amount of poverty she will be creating with her whimsical behaviour.\"Uki Goni", "tags": ["Hedge funds", "Economics", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Business", "US news", "Vulture funds", "Financial sector"], "title": "Argentina on brink of second debt default in 12 years"},{"date": "2014-07-31T10:25:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has fallen into default for the second time since 2001 after last-minute talks with \"vulture\" bondholders in New York failed to produce a deal overnight.At a dramatic press conference in New York on Wednesday night, Argentinian finance minister Axel Kicillof declared that Argentina would not be held to ransom by the holdout bondholders, who are demanding to be paid in full on debt which the country defaulted on in 2001.Kicillof said: \"We're not going to sign an agreement that jeopardises the future of all Argentines. Argentines can remain calm because tomorrow will just be another day and the world will keep on spinning.\"Shortly before the deadline, Daniel Pollack, the court-appointed mediator, confirmed that the talks had broken down. \"Unfortunately, no agreement was reached and the Republic of Argentina will imminently be in default.\"Earlier, the credit rating firm Standard & Poor's declared that Argentina was now in \"selective default\". The default comes two months after a US court ruled that Argentina must pay the holdout bondholders in full, saddling it with a bill of more than $1.5bn.The vast majority (more than 90% of bondholders) agreed to restructure debts in 2005 and 2010, taking a big \"haircut\" \u2013 a reduction of more than 70% in the value of their investments in return for regular interest payments.Argentina's last default, in late 2001, came after a major political and economic crisis; scores were killed in riots, and both the president and the economy minister resigned. But there was little sign of a panic in global financial markets this time, as the default was widely expected. However, it could add more pain for Argentinians, with the economy already in recession.Pollack said: \"The full consequences of default are not predictable, but they certainly are not positive.\"The holdouts \u2013 branded \"vulture funds\" by the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner \u2013 are US hedge funds spearheaded by the billionaire Paul Singer's NML Capital, an affiliate of Elliott Management, and Aurelius Capital Management.Steve Ellis, portfolio manager at Fidelity emerging market debt fund, said: \"We expect contagion to other markets to be fairly limited. This is a highly technical legal case and a selective default.\"Argentina was isolated from international capital markets for years so we don't expect the default to distort any global capital flows. However, there will be remaining risks around a longer term default which would have negative impacts on the Argentine economy. At this stage, the market will likely price in a delay of payments should the government continue to deposit coupon payments until they can reach a deal with the holdouts in 2015.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Financial sector", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Argentina defaults as debt talks break down"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:48:58Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina has risked deepening its isolation among international lenders with a proposal to cut out a group of US hedge funds from sovereign bond payments.President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner announced on Tuesday that the government was replacing its New York intermediary bank with the state-run Banco de la Naci\u00f3n.This would allow it to circumvent a New York judge's ruling that blocked bond payments to all creditors, after the country refused to reimburse a group of hedge funds which are demanding payment of their bonds in full.The new plan would allow Argentina to pay the so-called haircut bondholders who agreed to restructure their payments in 2005 and 2010 but have been unable to receive payments since the court ruling.The bond market meanwhile reacted negatively to the proposed change in jurisdiction, which the New York court may see as an attempted evasion of its decisions.Argentina's portion of the JP Morgan Emerging Markets Bond Index Plus widened by 22 basis points to 786 over US treasuries, marking an increase in risk perception.Argentina's plan for making payments on its sovereign bonds via a local bank aims to protect the vast majority of creditors who participated in two debt restructurings, the government said.The deadlock has kept the economically ailing country from being able to issue international bonds at a time of falling central bank reserves.Argentina slid into default on its restructured bonds last month after a New York court blocked an interest payment of $539m (\u00a3324m). The payment did not go through to investors because US district judge Thomas Griesa says restructured bonds cannot be paid unless the holdouts get paid at the same time.The $539m remains with intermediary Bank of New York Mellon. Argentina says Griesa overstepped his bounds by blocking the coupon payment, and is moving to ensure future payments go through local banks.\"The point is to protect the 92.4% of bond holders who participated in the exchanges,\" said the government's cabinet chief Jorge Capitanich.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina moves to cut out US hedge funds"},{"date": "2014-08-20T17:03:31Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Happy hour is now in full swing at The Temple Bar, a busy British-style pub in the upscale Palermo Soho district of Buenos Aires. Over a pint of artisan pale ale, a young economist, Martin Trombetta, admits it is hard to tell from where we are sitting that his country is now in default again.For many observers it is difficult to be sure whether this is even the case. Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, continues to insist that the country has not recently defaulted on its sovereign debt for the second time in 13 years, while her chief finance minister, Axel Kicillof, accuses all those who think otherwise of dealing in \"atomic nonsense\".\"We're in default all right,\" says Trombetta, a researcher in labour econometrics at the National University of General Sarmiento. \"Leaving all the legal minutiae aside, our access to credit \u00a0is null today. The markets have corroborated it.\"If the after-work crowd filling the pub don't seem particularly panicked by this, it may be because they have seen and heard it all before.\"I'm sure that a lot of people are worried and confused,\" says Trombetta. \"But they're already living in a country with the second-highest rate of inflation in the world [after Venezuela], and I think they're pretty used to Argentina's economic cycles by now.\" It may also be, understandably, that they don't fully understand all the legal minutiae.After almost 10 years of wrangling, the Kirchner government's US court battle against a small but powerful group of foreign creditors has become so internecine that even the presiding judge stands accused of misreading or ignoring certain terms of the swapped bonds in question.According to the judge, Thomas Griesa, of the New York district court, the clause of pari passu stipulates that all holders be treated as equal. While a majority of Argentina's creditors accepted a vastly reduced payout, or \"haircut\", on their bonds when the external debt was restructured in 2005 and again in 2010, a minority of \"holdouts\" made no such agreement.So, in Griesa's view, those investors \u2013 who own about 7% of the debt \u2013 have as much right to a return on the full value of their bonds as the 93% who settled for less.In June this year Griesa ordered a block on the transfer of $539m (\u00a3324m) in interest payments from Argentina to the \"haircuts\", ruling that the \"holdouts\" would have to be satisfied first.The Argentinian side (as Argentina has been referred to throughout the proceedings) argued in turn that Griesa was neglecting the \"rights upon future offers\" (Rufo) clause, which effectively inverts pari passu by prohibiting the full repayment of any one bond-holder without paying all the others the same at once.If Rufo were activated, the $15bn liability could clear out half the nation's already depleted foreign exchange reserves.So Argentina refused, the 30 July deadline for a settlement passed, and various ratings agencies downgraded the country to a status of \"partial\", \"technical\", \"restricted\" or \"selective\" default, all terms rejected by Kirchner and Kicillof. \"They will have to invent a new name,\" said the president.A name was duly invented by those who tended to blame the judge for this mess, and the hashtag #GrieFault has been trending on Twitter. On Tuesday, Kirchner used a national television address to announce plans to circumvent Griesa's ruling by making payments on its bonds via an Argentinian bank \u2013 a move that stunned the bond market.As the dispute has ground on the holdouts have become better known as vultures. The hedge funds involved, and especially Paul Singer, of Elliott Management, the figurehead of the lawsuit, are now characterised as enemies of the state in government-endorsed graffiti and official hoardings all over Buenos Aires which invite the population to pick a side: \"Patria o buitres\" (motherland or vultures). For most residents, this is no choice at all.As a card-carrying member of Partido Obrero, the Argentinian Trotskyist workers' party, Trombetta has no more sympathy for the \"vultures\" than anyone else. \"They knew what they were doing when they bought those bonds for pennies on the dollar, hoping to score big off a struggling country. They're like gamblers who try to sue the casino when they put a little money on black 31 but it came up red 32.\"Trombetta believes that, in political terms, the concept of sovereign debt is \"a mechanism of capitalist oppression\". Like many Latin American leftists he considers the borrowing of US dollar treasury bonds by the military juntas of the 1970s to be the \"original sin\" at the root of the region's economic problems.This view is relatively common in Argentina, where the outstanding national debt is contaminated by still-painful memories of the unelected dictatorship that first ran it up, and the later neoliberal governments whose failure to control it led to the domestic deficit crisis of 2001 and the biggest default in history.As an economist, though, Trombetta cannot bring himself to side with the president or her late husband and predecessor, Nestor Kirchner, who effectively legitimised the debt when he restructured it in 2005 and swapped the bonds for more favourable interest rates under New York law.\"To make this an ideological fight against the vultures seems entirely false to me,\" he says. \" And Griesa is not the enemy either. He gave the Kirchners nine years to solve this problem with the holdouts, and instead they spent all that time and money on bad economic policies leading nowhere.\"Others in the capital still cannot get their heads around the idea of Griesa having jurisdiction over their country.\"I'm an ordinary man, the man in the street,\" says Rogelio Dolavaraz, who owns the Don Pollo grocery shop in the middle-class neighbourhood of Nu\u00f1ez. \"I'm not familiar with all the details. But I don't agree that a judge from another country should be able to put us in checkmate like this. And his judgment will have repercussions because money has no borders. Money has no friends. When money is involved, the truth is silenced.\"Dolavaraz wants to know why Barack Obama is allowing this to happen. And he is not the only one to ask.Yet another legal clause, in the US constitution, could supposedly solve the entire problem.\"Under the principle of 'comity',\" the investigative journalist Greg Palast wrote in the Guardian in August, \"Obama only need inform Griesa that Singer's suit interferes with the president's sole authority to conduct foreign policy. Case dismissed.\"While Kirchner and Kicillof have seized on this, other commentators say there is no such mechanism in the US for executive override of a court decision. And three weeks into the default, the repercussions remain to be seen.Internationally, it is nothing new for Argentina to be labelled an economic disaster, and there was no stock market rout in Buenos Aires. The Buenos Aires index has been stable in response to Kirchner's hard line, and the world keeps turning as she said it would \u2013 though the bond market reacted negatively to her gambit on Wednesday.And if Kirchner prints more money to stay afloat through this crisis and maintain her public-spending programme, the country's already astronomical inflation rate is likely to rise yet higher and faster.The effects, as ever, will fall hardest on the poorest. On the outer edge of the capital in Villa 11-14 \u2013 among the biggest and most notorious of the surrounding shantytowns \u2013 Susana Arino, a volunteer drug rehab worker, says she does not doubt that the default \"will eventually affect the people around here\". She adds: \"You don't hear much talk about it because they've got bigger day-to-day problems, but it's not going to make their lives any easier.\"It is often claimed by Kirchner supporters that her party's social programmes have helped integrate the shanty dwellers, and by her opponents that she has simply bought the vote of Argentina's underclass. As a resident of the neighbouring Barrio Juan XXII, Arino says she has not seen much evidence of improvement since the catastrophic year of 2001, or the subsequent debt restructures of 2005 and 2010 that supposedly allowed the Kirchners to get poverty and unemployment under control.\"It seems to me things are getting worse again,\" Arino says, citing factory closures and layoffs as proof of a new recession now happening. She believes, she says, the country should just pay its debts. Even if it clears out the reserves? Arino shrugs. \"No one in this neighbourhood would ever see that money anyway.\"", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US news", "Americas", "World news", "Inflation", "Economics", "Bonds", "Financial sector"], "title": "Argentina in latest debt default crisis pits 'motherland' against 'vultures'"},{"date": "2014-08-07T11:19:00Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The \"vulture\" financier now threatening to devour Argentina can be stopped dead by a simple note to the courts from Barack Obama. But the president, while officially supporting Argentina, has not done this one thing that could save Buenos Aires from default.Obama could prevent vulture hedge-fund billionaire Paul Singer from collecting a single penny from Argentina by invoking the long-established authority granted presidents by the US constitution's \"Separation of Powers\" clause. Under the principle known as \"comity\", Obama only need inform US federal judge Thomas Griesa that Singer's suit interferes with the president's sole authority to conduct foreign policy. Case dismissed.Indeed, President George W Bush invoked this power against the very same hedge fund now threatening Argentina. Bush blocked Singer's seizure of Congo-Brazzaville's US property, despite the fact that the hedge fund chief is one of the largest, and most influential, contributors to Republican candidates.Notably, an appeals court warned this very judge, 30 years ago, to heed the directive of a president invoking his foreign policy powers. In the Singer case, the US state department did inform Judge Griesa that the Obama administration agreed with Argentina's legal arguments; but the president never invoked the magical, vulture-stopping clause.Obama's devastating hesitation is no surprise. It repeats the president's capitulation to Singer the last time they went mano a mano. It was 2009. Singer, through a brilliantly complex financial manoeuvre, took control of Delphi Automotive, the sole supplier of most of the auto parts needed by General Motors and Chrysler. Both auto firms were already in bankruptcy.Singer and co-investors demanded the US Treasury pay them billions, including $350m (\u00a3200m) in cash immediately, or \u2013 as the Singer consortium threatened \u2013 \"we'll shut you down\". They would cut off GM's parts. Literally.GM and Chrysler, with no more than a couple of days' worth of parts to hand, would have shut down, permanently;forced into liquidation.Obama's negotiator, Treasury deputy Steven Rattner, called the vulture funds' demand \"extortion\" \u2013 a characterisation of Singer repeated last week by Argentina President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner.But while Fern\u00e1ndez declared \"I cannot as president submit the country to such extortion,\" Obama submitted within days. Ultimately, the US Treasury quietly paid the Singer consortium a cool $12.9bn in cash and subsidies from the US Treasury's auto bailout fund.Singer responded to Obama's largesse by quickly shutting down 25 of Delphi's 29 US auto parts plants, shifting 25,000 jobs to Asia. Singer's Elliott Management pocketed $1.29bn of which Singer personally garnered the lion's share.In the case of Argentina, Obama certainly has reason to act. The US State Department warned the judge that adopting Singer's legal theories would imperil sovereign bailout agreements worldwide. Indeed, it is reported that, in 2012, Singer joined fellow billionaire vulture investor Kenneth Dart in shaking down the Greek government for a huge payout during the euro crisis by threatening to create a mass default of banks across Europe.The financial press has turned on Singer. Commentators in the Wall Street Journal and FT are enraged at the financier's quixotic re-interpretation of sovereign lending terms in the way that the Taliban interprets a peace agreement. No peace, no agreement.Singer has certainly earned his vulture feathers. His attack on Congo-Brazzaville in effect snatched the value of the debt relief paid for by US and British taxpayers and, says Oxfam, undermined the nation's ability to fight a cholera epidemic. (Singer's spokesman responded that corruption in the Congo-Brazzaville government, not his lawsuits, have impoverished that nation.)As if to burnish his tough-guy credentials, Singer has mounted legal attacks on JP Morgan Chase, Citibank, BNY Mellon, and UBS, demanding they pay him the money that Argentina had paid them over the last decade. Furthermore, Singer's lawyers persuaded the judge to stop BNY Mellon, Argentina's agent, from making $500m in payments to Argentinian bondholders.Surely the president would intervene. He didn't. He hasn't. Why?I'm not a psychologist. But this we know: since taking on Argentina, Singer has unlocked his billion-dollar bank account, becoming the biggest donor to New York Republican causes. He is a founder of Restore Our Future, a billionaire boys club, channelling the funds of Bill Koch and other Richie Rich-kid Republicans into a fearsome war-chest dedicated to vicious political attack ads.And Singer recently gave $1m to Karl Rove's Crossroads operation, another political attack machine.In other words, there's a price for crossing Singer. And, unlike the president of Argentina, Obama appears unwilling to pay it.\u2022 Greg Palast is author of Vultures' Picnic and has produced a series of investigative reports on vulture funds for the Guardian, the Nation and BBC Newsnight.", "tags": ["Vulture funds", "Hedge funds", "Business", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Barack Obama", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Republicans", "US constitution and civil liberties", "US economy", "Automotive industry", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US justice system", "US political financing", "US political lobbying", "US politics"], "title": "How Barack Obama could end the Argentina debt crisis"},{"date": "2014-07-29T18:32:44Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is on the brink of its second debt default since the turn of the century, as hopes fade that last-minute talks will hammer out a deal with \"vulture fund\" bondholders. Argentinian officials met a US mediator in New York in the latest chapter of a decade-long debt battle with hedge funds that bought up the country's bonds at rock-bottom prices in the wake of its financial crisis in 2001 and 2002.The creditors are demanding full repayment on their investments, having refused to join the vast majority of Argentina's bondholders in accepting debt restructuring deals in 2005 and 2010 that would have seen their value slashed.The value of the bonds, plus interest accrued, is more than $1.5bn (\u00a3885m), which a US judge says is due to the so-called holdout bondholders.If Argentina fails to or refuses to pay that amount by Wednesday, it will technically be defaulting on its debt obligations. It would be the second time in only 12 years, after the country defaulted on around $100bn of debt during its previous crisis.Analysts said a technical default looked likely given the scant progress on any kind of agreement in recent weeks, but there were reassurances that it would have few repercussions for global markets.There were pleas from some of the exchange bondholders hoping to avert a default and years more of legal wrangling. \"A default would undo much of the work this court has accomplished over the last 10 years and extend litigation here and around the world for years on end,\" Reuters reported them as saying.Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, said the impact on other countries would be limited because of Argentina's effective isolation from international markets for over a decade. \"While default is always regrettable, we do not believe that it would have major substantive consequences outside, on a much broader basis,\" she said on Tuesday night.\"The outcome of the legal decisions that are being made in New York at the moment \u2026 have much broader significance,\" Reuters quoted her as saying. \"The debt restructuring principles and the efficiency of collective action clauses will have to be reviewed,\" she said, alluding to work the IMF has done on sovereign debt contracts and how to deal with post-default issues.Unlike the last default when Argentina was unable to pay, this time it would be more on a point of principle rather than out of necessity. The government has said, however, that it cannot afford to pay the holdouts in full and meet its other interest payments. The US hedge funds contest this and have accused Argentina's government of refusing to begin talks.Branded vulture funds by Argentina and debt campaigners, the creditors holding out for full repayment are New York hedge funds spearheaded by the billionaire Paul Singer's NML Capital, an affiliate of Elliott Management, and Aurelius Capital Management. They make up a small proportion of the country's creditors.More than 92% of Argentina's bondholders agreed to deals in 2005 and 2010, under which they would get regular interest payments provided they accepted a reduction of more than 70% in the value of their investment, known as a haircut.The government attempted to pay the holders of restructured debt their latest interest payment at the end of June, but were barred from doing so by a judge in the US, where the legal battle with the holdouts has taken place. The US district judge Thomas Griesa has said it would be illegal for Argentina to make a payment to the bondholders without also paying more than $1.5bn to the holdouts.Argentina now appears to have reached the end of the road on averting a fresh default. The latest deadline marks the end of a 30-day grace period beyond which the latest instalment was due to the creditors who restructured in 2005 and 2010, also known as exchange bondholders.Argentina has suffered a number of setbacks in US courts, the latest being last month when the US supreme court refused to hear an appeal against a lower court's rulingthat came down in favour of the holdout creditors.The country's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, fears that any deal to pay more to the hedge funds could trigger lawsuits from other bondholders demanding to be paid on similar terms. Her government estimates that the liability could run as high as $15bn.Debt campaigners have said that the rulings in the US have implications well beyond Argentina by undoing years of progress in reducing debt burdens on poor countries. They say a victory for the holdouts would set a precedent for other investors to wreck long-standing debt forgiveness deals with developing countries.As Argentina stares down the barrel of a default, the government of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez seems unperturbed by its likely economic consequences. It is almost relishing what it sees as a valiant stand against capitalist imperialism by refusing to pay the holdouts.\"Cristina has grown with this as [General] Galtieri did during the Falkands War,\" said opposition leader Elisa Carri\u00f3. \"We Argentines love to applaud this kind of behaviour, but afterwards we end up crying.\"Buenos Aires awoke on Tuesday to billboards reading \"Griesa or Cristina\", in reference to New York Judge Thomas Griesa, who has ordered Argentina to pay the holdouts. Meanwhile, the government maintains that the likely default will have no negative consequences.\"We are not going to have any problem on the 30th,\" said Axel Kiciloff, Argentina's economy minister. Speaking at a meeting of South American economy ministers in Buenos Aires, he blamed Argentina's current crisis on \"attacks by speculators supported by central nations. We will not give in to blackmail.\" He described Griesa's ruling as \"unprecedented, unheard of, incomprehensible and uncompliable\". The court-sponsored mediation talks with the holdouts that he attended in New York he described as \"a jigsaw puzzle, a tongue twister\".Business leaders disagree. \"We have a minister who says it's the same whether we go into default or not,\" said H\u00e9ctor M\u00e9ndez, head of the UIA industrial union. \"The economy is in bad shape. All sectors of industry are showing important slowdowns, with an average of 25%.\"A survey of Argentine business leaders found that the outlook of 51% of respondents was negative. Carri\u00f3, a legislator of the middle-of-the-road UNEN political party, last night laughed off the government's claim that there can be no real default because it has paid restructured bond holders.\"We owe the grocer, but we also owe the butcher,\" said Carri\u00f3. \"The butcher is very mean, but we owe him. Cristina [Fern\u00e1ndez] say she already paid, but who did you pay? You paid the grocer, but if you don't pay the butcher as well they won't unblock your funds. What Cristina doesn't take into account is the amount of poverty she will be creating with her whimsical behaviour.\"Uki Goni", "tags": ["Hedge funds", "Economics", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Business", "US news", "Vulture funds", "Financial sector"], "title": "Argentina on brink of second debt default in 12 years"},{"date": "2014-07-30T16:06:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Leading shares continued their volatile way, losing ground on Russian sanctions and Argentinian default fears despite some positive corporate news.Ironically, strong US GDP figures also unsettled the market, suggesting the US Federal Reserve might begin raising interest rates sooner than previously expected.So ahead of the Fed's latest update later on Wednesday, Wall Street slipped back in early trading and helped push the FTSE 100 34.31 points lower to 6773.44. Even though there were hopes that Argentina may somehow find a way to avoid defaulting at the last minute, investors disliked the uncertainty.Among the gainers, Barclays jumped 9.3p to 228.4p after its results came in better than forecast despite the bank taking another \u00a3900m provision for compensating customers mis-sold payment protection insurance. Royal Bank of Scotland rose 8.9p to 362.9p.Travis Perkins was also boosted by results, adding 44p to \u00a316.89 as the building materials group reported a 19.4% rise in first half profit.AstraZeneca added 35p to 4357.5p after it moved to build up its respiratory drugs business with a $2.1bn deal for the rights to Spanish group Almirali's lung treatments.Separately, Astra was one of a number of companies said to be interested in a possible \u20ac6.5 a share bid for German drug discovery group Evotec, valuing the business at nearly \u00a3600m. America's Johnson & Johnson was also mentioned by traders as another potential bidder.But Antofagasta fell 39p to 816p despite beating forecasts with a near 6% quarter on quarter increase in second quarter copper output to 178,000. Analysts were concerned about the outlook for copper prices.Other miners were also weaker. BHP Billiton lost 48p to \u00a320.48, while Rio Tinto was 41p lower at \u00a334.34 after selling its Mozambique coal assets at a knock down price.Among the mid-caps Pace dropped 24.5p to 337.4p as Liberum cut its target price from 420p to 390p in the wake of this week's news of the unexpected departure of its finance director. Liberum said:Moneysupermarket.com added 3.4p to 185.4p after half year profits rose 9% to \u00a394.4m.Finally construction group Keller fell 23p to 890p after it said it would take a \u00a330m charge relating to a dispute over a project completed in 2008. The charge relates to purported defects in a floor slab at a warehouse, but may be covered by insurance. Analysts at Liberum said:", "tags": ["Business", "Barclays", "Royal Bank of Scotland", "Travis Perkins", "AstraZeneca", "Antofagasta", "BHP Billiton", "Rio Tinto", "Moneysupermarket.com", "Keller"], "title": "FTSE flags on Ukraine, Argentina and US interest rate concerns"},{"date": "2014-10-27T18:08:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s Malvinas secretary has warned that unilateral British drilling for oil and gas in the Falklands could unleash an environmental catastrophe on the scale of the Gulf of Mexico disaster.Speaking in London, Daniel Filmus, the first holder of the post which was created in January, said attempts by British companies to extract hydrocarbons from the seabed without Argentina\u2019s consent were hugely dangerous.Several small UK firms are exploring the waters around the islands, believed to contain billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Filmus warned that without \u201ccontinental support\u201d from Argentina these technically difficult projects risked a major oil spillage across the pristine South Atlantic.Buenos Aires has banned ships carrying the British flag from visiting its ports or carrying out \u201clogistical operations\u201d. Other South American nations including Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay have followed suit.\u201cThe environmental risk of exploring for oil in the region is huge. Not just for the islanders, but for the whole of Latin America and even the world. It means potentially undermining biodiversity,\u201d Filmus said. \u201cYou can\u2019t explore without proper support from the continent. The risk of another accident like the Gulf of Mexico is huge.\u201d Argentina\u2019s government was suing the companies involved for their \u201ccriminal actions\u201d, he said.Filmus added he would continue to press Britain to return the islands using peaceful means and dialogue. He said Argentina would respect the right of the islanders to remain British but wanted \u201cthe exercise of sovereignty\u201d.\u201cThe history of humanity is the history of the end of colonialism,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m certain those living on the islands will have a better life [with Argentina].\u201dFilmus is a close ally of president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, who has rekindled Argentina\u2019s claim to the Falklands (known in Argentina as the Malvinas). Filmus said he did not attempt to meet anyone from the British government during his one-day trip to London on Monday, following an earlier snub from former foreign secretary William Hague. The envoy launched a book, Dialogue, \u2013 which sets out Argentina\u2019s argument in a series of essays and articles.Argentina has said it will sabotage what it regards as illegal oil exploration around the islands. Last year parliament voted to impose jail sentences of up to 15 years on executives whose companies drill for oil, as well as punitive fines of up to $1.5bn. It has said firms will also be disbarred from lucrative work in Vaca Muerta, a giant shale oil deposit in Argentina\u2019s Patagonia region.Oil majors such as Chevron and BP have so far avoided the dispute. But smaller, UK-based firms such as Premier Oil are exploring the seabed, including the North Falklands Basin, believed to contain 400m barrels of recoverable oil.Filmus said Argentina\u2019s claim to the Malvinas went back to 1833, when Britain illegally seized the territory. International law, other South American nations, and binding UN resolutions all obliged Britain to negotiate over the future of the islands, he said. \u201cWe regret that the UK stopped dialogue. The only way of resolving a conflict is through talks.\u201d Britain secretly negotiated over the islands\u2019 future between 1966 and 1982 with successive Argentinian dictatorships, but now refuses to discuss the issue with a democratic and war-eschewing Argentina, he said.The envoy, meanwhile, said Buenos Aires had no intention of banning the BBC Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson, who drove around Argentina in a Porsche with the registration H982 FLK, an apparent reference to the 1982 Falklands War. Last week Argentina\u2019s ambassador to the UK, Alicia Castro, made a formal complaint to the BBC.\u201cI don\u2019t think we want to dedicate one second to Clarkson,\u201d Filmus said.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "Environment", "BP oil spill", "World news", "UK news", "Pollution", "Oil spills", "Oil", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "William Hague", "Politics", "Premier Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Business"], "title": "British drilling in Falklands risks eco-disaster, says Argentina"},{"date": "2014-10-27T18:08:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s Malvinas secretary has warned that unilateral British drilling for oil and gas in the Falklands could unleash an environmental catastrophe on the scale of the Gulf of Mexico disaster.Speaking in London, Daniel Filmus, the first holder of the post which was created in January, said attempts by British companies to extract hydrocarbons from the seabed without Argentina\u2019s consent were hugely dangerous.Several small UK firms are exploring the waters around the islands, believed to contain billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Filmus warned that without \u201ccontinental support\u201d from Argentina these technically difficult projects risked a major oil spillage across the pristine South Atlantic.Buenos Aires has banned ships carrying the British flag from visiting its ports or carrying out \u201clogistical operations\u201d. Other South American nations including Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay have followed suit.\u201cThe environmental risk of exploring for oil in the region is huge. Not just for the islanders, but for the whole of Latin America and even the world. It means potentially undermining biodiversity,\u201d Filmus said. \u201cYou can\u2019t explore without proper support from the continent. The risk of another accident like the Gulf of Mexico is huge.\u201d Argentina\u2019s government was suing the companies involved for their \u201ccriminal actions\u201d, he said.Filmus added he would continue to press Britain to return the islands using peaceful means and dialogue. He said Argentina would respect the right of the islanders to remain British but wanted \u201cthe exercise of sovereignty\u201d.\u201cThe history of humanity is the history of the end of colonialism,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m certain those living on the islands will have a better life [with Argentina].\u201dFilmus is a close ally of president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, who has rekindled Argentina\u2019s claim to the Falklands (known in Argentina as the Malvinas). Filmus said he did not attempt to meet anyone from the British government during his one-day trip to London on Monday, following an earlier snub from former foreign secretary William Hague. The envoy launched a book, Dialogue, \u2013 which sets out Argentina\u2019s argument in a series of essays and articles.Argentina has said it will sabotage what it regards as illegal oil exploration around the islands. Last year parliament voted to impose jail sentences of up to 15 years on executives whose companies drill for oil, as well as punitive fines of up to $1.5bn. It has said firms will also be disbarred from lucrative work in Vaca Muerta, a giant shale oil deposit in Argentina\u2019s Patagonia region.Oil majors such as Chevron and BP have so far avoided the dispute. But smaller, UK-based firms such as Premier Oil are exploring the seabed, including the North Falklands Basin, believed to contain 400m barrels of recoverable oil.Filmus said Argentina\u2019s claim to the Malvinas went back to 1833, when Britain illegally seized the territory. International law, other South American nations, and binding UN resolutions all obliged Britain to negotiate over the future of the islands, he said. \u201cWe regret that the UK stopped dialogue. The only way of resolving a conflict is through talks.\u201d Britain secretly negotiated over the islands\u2019 future between 1966 and 1982 with successive Argentinian dictatorships, but now refuses to discuss the issue with a democratic and war-eschewing Argentina, he said.The envoy, meanwhile, said Buenos Aires had no intention of banning the BBC Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson, who drove around Argentina in a Porsche with the registration H982 FLK, an apparent reference to the 1982 Falklands War. Last week Argentina\u2019s ambassador to the UK, Alicia Castro, made a formal complaint to the BBC.\u201cI don\u2019t think we want to dedicate one second to Clarkson,\u201d Filmus said.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "Environment", "BP oil spill", "World news", "UK news", "Pollution", "Oil spills", "Oil", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "William Hague", "Politics", "Premier Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Business"], "title": "British drilling in Falklands risks eco-disaster, says Argentina"},{"date": "2014-10-04T11:23:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson has claimed he was thrown out of Argentina by state officials after thousands of people rounded on his crew in an apparent protest at a number licence plate that seemed to refer to the Falklands war.After returning to Britain on Saturday morning, the presenter claimed on Twitter that \u201cthousands\u201d of people chased the crew from Patagonia, where they were filming, to the border with Chile.\u201cThey threw us out for the political capital,\u201d he tweeted. \u201cThousands chased crew to border. Someone could have been killed.\u201dThey threw us out for the political capital. Thousands chased crew to border. Someone could have been killed.Clarkson rejected Argentinian claims that the Top Gear crew deliberately used a number plate that referred to the Falklands war.The presenter had been driving a Porsche 928 with the plate H982 FKL, which Argentinians believed was a reference to the 1982 conflict, prompting a mob to hurl rocks and bricks at the vehicles being driven by Clarkson and his co-presenters, James May and Richard Hammond.Clarkson insisted that the plate was \u201cnot a jolly jape that went awry. For once, we did nothing wrong. The number plate WAS a coincidence. When it was pointed out to us, we changed it. And these war veterans we upset. Mostly they were in their 20s. Do the maths.\u201dAnd these war veterans we upset. Mostly they were in their 20s. Do the maths.All members of the Top Gear crew have now left Argentina. The mayor of Rio Grande, the regional capital, reportedly banned the vehicles from the city and declared the crew \u201cpersonas non gratas\u201d following demands from military veterans\u2019 groups.Cesar Gonzalez, head of the Falklands\u2019 veteran centre in Rio Grande, called the plate an \u201coutright provocation\u201d, adding: \u201cIt had the number 982 \u2013 an allusion to the war [1982] and the letters FLK for the Falklands. It was a mockery to us all.\u201dClarkson\u2019s insistence that the number plate was an \u201cunbelievable coincidence\u201d was echoed by Andy Wilman, the programme\u2019s executive producer. \u201cTop Gear production purchased three cars for a forthcoming programme; to suggest that this car was either chosen for its number plate, or that an alternative number plate was substituted for the original, is completely untrue,\u201d he said.A BBC spokesman said: \u201cAs the executive producer has made clear, the number plate issue is a very unfortunate coincidence.\u201dThe team from the BBC2 show were in South America filming a special on a remote highway that passes through Chile and Argentina.Clarkson had described the attack as \u201cthe most terrifying thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in\u201d, adding: \u201cThere were hundreds of them. They were hurling rocks and bricks at our cars.\u201dA group of Argentinian war veterans protested outside the crew\u2019s hotel in Ushuaia and police were called after they invaded the lobby.One local politician said the crew had been escorted by police to the airport, reportedly flying out of the area three days earlier than planned.Local press reported that a fixer who had been hired to assist the crew was injured.The Porsche, along with a Lotus Esprit and a Ford Mustang, were abandoned by the side of a road. \u201cWe\u2019re leaving them here; we don\u2019t want any more problems. Set fire to them if you like,\u201d said a Top Gear crew member, according to local media.One edition of the BBC2 programme shot in Burma and broadcast earlier this year was found to be in breach of Ofcom\u2019s broadcasting code for using a racially offensive term, following a viewer complaint.The ruling came three months after Clarkson was forced to apologise over footage in which he appeared to use another racist term as part of an old nursery rhyme during filming.Top Gear has previously been criticised for unflattering depictions of Albanians, Romanians, Germans and Mexicans.", "tags": ["Top Gear", "Television", "Factual TV", "Jeremy Clarkson", "Media", "Argentina", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "BBC2", "BBC", "Television industry"], "title": "Jeremy Clarkson feared deaths in Argentina number plate row"},{"date": "2014-10-27T18:08:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s Malvinas secretary has warned that unilateral British drilling for oil and gas in the Falklands could unleash an environmental catastrophe on the scale of the Gulf of Mexico disaster.Speaking in London, Daniel Filmus, the first holder of the post which was created in January, said attempts by British companies to extract hydrocarbons from the seabed without Argentina\u2019s consent were hugely dangerous.Several small UK firms are exploring the waters around the islands, believed to contain billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Filmus warned that without \u201ccontinental support\u201d from Argentina these technically difficult projects risked a major oil spillage across the pristine South Atlantic.Buenos Aires has banned ships carrying the British flag from visiting its ports or carrying out \u201clogistical operations\u201d. Other South American nations including Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay have followed suit.\u201cThe environmental risk of exploring for oil in the region is huge. Not just for the islanders, but for the whole of Latin America and even the world. It means potentially undermining biodiversity,\u201d Filmus said. \u201cYou can\u2019t explore without proper support from the continent. The risk of another accident like the Gulf of Mexico is huge.\u201d Argentina\u2019s government was suing the companies involved for their \u201ccriminal actions\u201d, he said.Filmus added he would continue to press Britain to return the islands using peaceful means and dialogue. He said Argentina would respect the right of the islanders to remain British but wanted \u201cthe exercise of sovereignty\u201d.\u201cThe history of humanity is the history of the end of colonialism,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m certain those living on the islands will have a better life [with Argentina].\u201dFilmus is a close ally of president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, who has rekindled Argentina\u2019s claim to the Falklands (known in Argentina as the Malvinas). Filmus said he did not attempt to meet anyone from the British government during his one-day trip to London on Monday, following an earlier snub from former foreign secretary William Hague. The envoy launched a book, Dialogue, \u2013 which sets out Argentina\u2019s argument in a series of essays and articles.Argentina has said it will sabotage what it regards as illegal oil exploration around the islands. Last year parliament voted to impose jail sentences of up to 15 years on executives whose companies drill for oil, as well as punitive fines of up to $1.5bn. It has said firms will also be disbarred from lucrative work in Vaca Muerta, a giant shale oil deposit in Argentina\u2019s Patagonia region.Oil majors such as Chevron and BP have so far avoided the dispute. But smaller, UK-based firms such as Premier Oil are exploring the seabed, including the North Falklands Basin, believed to contain 400m barrels of recoverable oil.Filmus said Argentina\u2019s claim to the Malvinas went back to 1833, when Britain illegally seized the territory. International law, other South American nations, and binding UN resolutions all obliged Britain to negotiate over the future of the islands, he said. \u201cWe regret that the UK stopped dialogue. The only way of resolving a conflict is through talks.\u201d Britain secretly negotiated over the islands\u2019 future between 1966 and 1982 with successive Argentinian dictatorships, but now refuses to discuss the issue with a democratic and war-eschewing Argentina, he said.The envoy, meanwhile, said Buenos Aires had no intention of banning the BBC Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson, who drove around Argentina in a Porsche with the registration H982 FLK, an apparent reference to the 1982 Falklands War. Last week Argentina\u2019s ambassador to the UK, Alicia Castro, made a formal complaint to the BBC.\u201cI don\u2019t think we want to dedicate one second to Clarkson,\u201d Filmus said.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "Environment", "BP oil spill", "World news", "UK news", "Pollution", "Oil spills", "Oil", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "William Hague", "Politics", "Premier Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Business"], "title": "British drilling in Falklands risks eco-disaster, says Argentina"},{"date": "2014-10-04T11:23:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson has claimed he was thrown out of Argentina by state officials after thousands of people rounded on his crew in an apparent protest at a number licence plate that seemed to refer to the Falklands war.After returning to Britain on Saturday morning, the presenter claimed on Twitter that \u201cthousands\u201d of people chased the crew from Patagonia, where they were filming, to the border with Chile.\u201cThey threw us out for the political capital,\u201d he tweeted. \u201cThousands chased crew to border. Someone could have been killed.\u201dThey threw us out for the political capital. Thousands chased crew to border. Someone could have been killed.Clarkson rejected Argentinian claims that the Top Gear crew deliberately used a number plate that referred to the Falklands war.The presenter had been driving a Porsche 928 with the plate H982 FKL, which Argentinians believed was a reference to the 1982 conflict, prompting a mob to hurl rocks and bricks at the vehicles being driven by Clarkson and his co-presenters, James May and Richard Hammond.Clarkson insisted that the plate was \u201cnot a jolly jape that went awry. For once, we did nothing wrong. The number plate WAS a coincidence. When it was pointed out to us, we changed it. And these war veterans we upset. Mostly they were in their 20s. Do the maths.\u201dAnd these war veterans we upset. Mostly they were in their 20s. Do the maths.All members of the Top Gear crew have now left Argentina. The mayor of Rio Grande, the regional capital, reportedly banned the vehicles from the city and declared the crew \u201cpersonas non gratas\u201d following demands from military veterans\u2019 groups.Cesar Gonzalez, head of the Falklands\u2019 veteran centre in Rio Grande, called the plate an \u201coutright provocation\u201d, adding: \u201cIt had the number 982 \u2013 an allusion to the war [1982] and the letters FLK for the Falklands. It was a mockery to us all.\u201dClarkson\u2019s insistence that the number plate was an \u201cunbelievable coincidence\u201d was echoed by Andy Wilman, the programme\u2019s executive producer. \u201cTop Gear production purchased three cars for a forthcoming programme; to suggest that this car was either chosen for its number plate, or that an alternative number plate was substituted for the original, is completely untrue,\u201d he said.A BBC spokesman said: \u201cAs the executive producer has made clear, the number plate issue is a very unfortunate coincidence.\u201dThe team from the BBC2 show were in South America filming a special on a remote highway that passes through Chile and Argentina.Clarkson had described the attack as \u201cthe most terrifying thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in\u201d, adding: \u201cThere were hundreds of them. They were hurling rocks and bricks at our cars.\u201dA group of Argentinian war veterans protested outside the crew\u2019s hotel in Ushuaia and police were called after they invaded the lobby.One local politician said the crew had been escorted by police to the airport, reportedly flying out of the area three days earlier than planned.Local press reported that a fixer who had been hired to assist the crew was injured.The Porsche, along with a Lotus Esprit and a Ford Mustang, were abandoned by the side of a road. \u201cWe\u2019re leaving them here; we don\u2019t want any more problems. Set fire to them if you like,\u201d said a Top Gear crew member, according to local media.One edition of the BBC2 programme shot in Burma and broadcast earlier this year was found to be in breach of Ofcom\u2019s broadcasting code for using a racially offensive term, following a viewer complaint.The ruling came three months after Clarkson was forced to apologise over footage in which he appeared to use another racist term as part of an old nursery rhyme during filming.Top Gear has previously been criticised for unflattering depictions of Albanians, Romanians, Germans and Mexicans.", "tags": ["Top Gear", "Television", "Factual TV", "Jeremy Clarkson", "Media", "Argentina", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "BBC2", "BBC", "Television industry"], "title": "Jeremy Clarkson feared deaths in Argentina number plate row"},{"date": "2014-10-01T17:36:33Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentinian opposition politicians have accused the country\u2019s president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, of being \u201ccompletely out of touch with reality\u201d after she gave a rambling televised address in which she claimed the US may be behind a plot to overthrow her government and possibly even assassinate her.\u201cIf something should happen to me, don\u2019t look to the Middle East, look to the North,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez said during the address on Tuesday night, in which she alluded to an alleged plot against her by local bankers and businessmen \u201cwith foreign help\u201d.Fern\u00e1ndez had previously claimed to have received death threats from Islamic State (Isis) because of her friendship with Pope Francis. In last night\u2019s speech, however, she seemed to suggest the threats against her, received in three emails to Argentinian security officials, had come from the US.Her claim comes in the wake of a rapid deterioration of Argentina\u2019s already rocky relationship with the US after the country went into default in August.Argentina has rejected paying $1.3bn (\u00a3990m) awarded by New York Judge Thomas Griesa to \u201cvulture fund\u201d investors who refused to accept a \u201chaircut\u201d on Argentinian bonds from the country\u2019s previous default in 2001.\u201cI\u2019m not naive, this is not an isolated move by a senile judge in New York,\u201d said Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cBecause vultures look a lot like the eagles of empires,\u201d referring to the bald eagle, the national symbol of the US.Fern\u00e1ndez almost threw out the US embassy chief of mission Kevin Sullivan for saying \u201cit is important Argentina get out of default\u201d to a local newspaper. Fern\u00e1ndez claims that despite its debt crisis, Argentina is not in real default and Sullivan was called in for a reprimand by the Argentinian foreign ministry for using the \u201cdefault\u201d word.With economic stagnation, Argentina\u2019s peso currency in free fall and an alarming rise in crime levels, Fern\u00e1ndez has seemed increasingly beleaguered in the last few weeks.There is also increasing uncertainty within her Victory Front party regarding who Fern\u00e1ndez will back as presidential candidate in 2015. Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s second term ends next year, and she is unable to stand for re-election, though her 37-year-old son M\u00e1ximo Kirchner could be a candidate to replace her.Elisa Carri\u00f3, the presidential candidate of the centrist opposition UNEN party, said President Fern\u00e1ndez was \u201ccompletely out of touch with reality\u201d.\u201cSince she doesn\u2019t resist reality, with unemployment, high inflation, the rising dollar, she says it\u2019s no longer Isis trying to kill her, but the US,\u201d said Carri\u00f3. \u201cShe\u2019s inventing conspiracies.\u201dThe president\u2019s mental wellbeing was previously questioned by Hillary Clinton in 2010. \u201cIs she taking medication?\u201d, Clinton asked in a diplomatic cable leaked to the press while she was US secretary of state. \u201cHow does stress affect her behaviour toward advisers and/or her decision-making?\u201d the memo added.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US news"], "title": "Argentina president claims US plotting to oust her"},{"date": "2014-10-27T18:08:11Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s Malvinas secretary has warned that unilateral British drilling for oil and gas in the Falklands could unleash an environmental catastrophe on the scale of the Gulf of Mexico disaster.Speaking in London, Daniel Filmus, the first holder of the post which was created in January, said attempts by British companies to extract hydrocarbons from the seabed without Argentina\u2019s consent were hugely dangerous.Several small UK firms are exploring the waters around the islands, believed to contain billions of dollars worth of oil and gas revenues. Filmus warned that without \u201ccontinental support\u201d from Argentina these technically difficult projects risked a major oil spillage across the pristine South Atlantic.Buenos Aires has banned ships carrying the British flag from visiting its ports or carrying out \u201clogistical operations\u201d. Other South American nations including Brazil, Paraguay and Uruguay have followed suit.\u201cThe environmental risk of exploring for oil in the region is huge. Not just for the islanders, but for the whole of Latin America and even the world. It means potentially undermining biodiversity,\u201d Filmus said. \u201cYou can\u2019t explore without proper support from the continent. The risk of another accident like the Gulf of Mexico is huge.\u201d Argentina\u2019s government was suing the companies involved for their \u201ccriminal actions\u201d, he said.Filmus added he would continue to press Britain to return the islands using peaceful means and dialogue. He said Argentina would respect the right of the islanders to remain British but wanted \u201cthe exercise of sovereignty\u201d.\u201cThe history of humanity is the history of the end of colonialism,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m certain those living on the islands will have a better life [with Argentina].\u201dFilmus is a close ally of president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, who has rekindled Argentina\u2019s claim to the Falklands (known in Argentina as the Malvinas). Filmus said he did not attempt to meet anyone from the British government during his one-day trip to London on Monday, following an earlier snub from former foreign secretary William Hague. The envoy launched a book, Dialogue, \u2013 which sets out Argentina\u2019s argument in a series of essays and articles.Argentina has said it will sabotage what it regards as illegal oil exploration around the islands. Last year parliament voted to impose jail sentences of up to 15 years on executives whose companies drill for oil, as well as punitive fines of up to $1.5bn. It has said firms will also be disbarred from lucrative work in Vaca Muerta, a giant shale oil deposit in Argentina\u2019s Patagonia region.Oil majors such as Chevron and BP have so far avoided the dispute. But smaller, UK-based firms such as Premier Oil are exploring the seabed, including the North Falklands Basin, believed to contain 400m barrels of recoverable oil.Filmus said Argentina\u2019s claim to the Malvinas went back to 1833, when Britain illegally seized the territory. International law, other South American nations, and binding UN resolutions all obliged Britain to negotiate over the future of the islands, he said. \u201cWe regret that the UK stopped dialogue. The only way of resolving a conflict is through talks.\u201d Britain secretly negotiated over the islands\u2019 future between 1966 and 1982 with successive Argentinian dictatorships, but now refuses to discuss the issue with a democratic and war-eschewing Argentina, he said.The envoy, meanwhile, said Buenos Aires had no intention of banning the BBC Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson, who drove around Argentina in a Porsche with the registration H982 FLK, an apparent reference to the 1982 Falklands War. Last week Argentina\u2019s ambassador to the UK, Alicia Castro, made a formal complaint to the BBC.\u201cI don\u2019t think we want to dedicate one second to Clarkson,\u201d Filmus said.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Americas", "Environment", "BP oil spill", "World news", "UK news", "Pollution", "Oil spills", "Oil", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "William Hague", "Politics", "Premier Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Business"], "title": "British drilling in Falklands risks eco-disaster, says Argentina"},{"date": "2014-10-04T11:23:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "The Top Gear presenter Jeremy Clarkson has claimed he was thrown out of Argentina by state officials after thousands of people rounded on his crew in an apparent protest at a number licence plate that seemed to refer to the Falklands war.After returning to Britain on Saturday morning, the presenter claimed on Twitter that \u201cthousands\u201d of people chased the crew from Patagonia, where they were filming, to the border with Chile.\u201cThey threw us out for the political capital,\u201d he tweeted. \u201cThousands chased crew to border. Someone could have been killed.\u201dThey threw us out for the political capital. Thousands chased crew to border. Someone could have been killed.Clarkson rejected Argentinian claims that the Top Gear crew deliberately used a number plate that referred to the Falklands war.The presenter had been driving a Porsche 928 with the plate H982 FKL, which Argentinians believed was a reference to the 1982 conflict, prompting a mob to hurl rocks and bricks at the vehicles being driven by Clarkson and his co-presenters, James May and Richard Hammond.Clarkson insisted that the plate was \u201cnot a jolly jape that went awry. For once, we did nothing wrong. The number plate WAS a coincidence. When it was pointed out to us, we changed it. And these war veterans we upset. Mostly they were in their 20s. Do the maths.\u201dAnd these war veterans we upset. Mostly they were in their 20s. Do the maths.All members of the Top Gear crew have now left Argentina. The mayor of Rio Grande, the regional capital, reportedly banned the vehicles from the city and declared the crew \u201cpersonas non gratas\u201d following demands from military veterans\u2019 groups.Cesar Gonzalez, head of the Falklands\u2019 veteran centre in Rio Grande, called the plate an \u201coutright provocation\u201d, adding: \u201cIt had the number 982 \u2013 an allusion to the war [1982] and the letters FLK for the Falklands. It was a mockery to us all.\u201dClarkson\u2019s insistence that the number plate was an \u201cunbelievable coincidence\u201d was echoed by Andy Wilman, the programme\u2019s executive producer. \u201cTop Gear production purchased three cars for a forthcoming programme; to suggest that this car was either chosen for its number plate, or that an alternative number plate was substituted for the original, is completely untrue,\u201d he said.A BBC spokesman said: \u201cAs the executive producer has made clear, the number plate issue is a very unfortunate coincidence.\u201dThe team from the BBC2 show were in South America filming a special on a remote highway that passes through Chile and Argentina.Clarkson had described the attack as \u201cthe most terrifying thing I\u2019ve ever been involved in\u201d, adding: \u201cThere were hundreds of them. They were hurling rocks and bricks at our cars.\u201dA group of Argentinian war veterans protested outside the crew\u2019s hotel in Ushuaia and police were called after they invaded the lobby.One local politician said the crew had been escorted by police to the airport, reportedly flying out of the area three days earlier than planned.Local press reported that a fixer who had been hired to assist the crew was injured.The Porsche, along with a Lotus Esprit and a Ford Mustang, were abandoned by the side of a road. \u201cWe\u2019re leaving them here; we don\u2019t want any more problems. Set fire to them if you like,\u201d said a Top Gear crew member, according to local media.One edition of the BBC2 programme shot in Burma and broadcast earlier this year was found to be in breach of Ofcom\u2019s broadcasting code for using a racially offensive term, following a viewer complaint.The ruling came three months after Clarkson was forced to apologise over footage in which he appeared to use another racist term as part of an old nursery rhyme during filming.Top Gear has previously been criticised for unflattering depictions of Albanians, Romanians, Germans and Mexicans.", "tags": ["Top Gear", "Television", "Factual TV", "Jeremy Clarkson", "Media", "Argentina", "Americas", "Falkland Islands", "UK news", "BBC2", "BBC", "Television industry"], "title": "Jeremy Clarkson feared deaths in Argentina number plate row"},{"date": "2014-10-01T17:36:33Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentinian opposition politicians have accused the country\u2019s president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, of being \u201ccompletely out of touch with reality\u201d after she gave a rambling televised address in which she claimed the US may be behind a plot to overthrow her government and possibly even assassinate her.\u201cIf something should happen to me, don\u2019t look to the Middle East, look to the North,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez said during the address on Tuesday night, in which she alluded to an alleged plot against her by local bankers and businessmen \u201cwith foreign help\u201d.Fern\u00e1ndez had previously claimed to have received death threats from Islamic State (Isis) because of her friendship with Pope Francis. In last night\u2019s speech, however, she seemed to suggest the threats against her, received in three emails to Argentinian security officials, had come from the US.Her claim comes in the wake of a rapid deterioration of Argentina\u2019s already rocky relationship with the US after the country went into default in August.Argentina has rejected paying $1.3bn (\u00a3990m) awarded by New York Judge Thomas Griesa to \u201cvulture fund\u201d investors who refused to accept a \u201chaircut\u201d on Argentinian bonds from the country\u2019s previous default in 2001.\u201cI\u2019m not naive, this is not an isolated move by a senile judge in New York,\u201d said Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cBecause vultures look a lot like the eagles of empires,\u201d referring to the bald eagle, the national symbol of the US.Fern\u00e1ndez almost threw out the US embassy chief of mission Kevin Sullivan for saying \u201cit is important Argentina get out of default\u201d to a local newspaper. Fern\u00e1ndez claims that despite its debt crisis, Argentina is not in real default and Sullivan was called in for a reprimand by the Argentinian foreign ministry for using the \u201cdefault\u201d word.With economic stagnation, Argentina\u2019s peso currency in free fall and an alarming rise in crime levels, Fern\u00e1ndez has seemed increasingly beleaguered in the last few weeks.There is also increasing uncertainty within her Victory Front party regarding who Fern\u00e1ndez will back as presidential candidate in 2015. Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s second term ends next year, and she is unable to stand for re-election, though her 37-year-old son M\u00e1ximo Kirchner could be a candidate to replace her.Elisa Carri\u00f3, the presidential candidate of the centrist opposition UNEN party, said President Fern\u00e1ndez was \u201ccompletely out of touch with reality\u201d.\u201cSince she doesn\u2019t resist reality, with unemployment, high inflation, the rising dollar, she says it\u2019s no longer Isis trying to kill her, but the US,\u201d said Carri\u00f3. \u201cShe\u2019s inventing conspiracies.\u201dThe president\u2019s mental wellbeing was previously questioned by Hillary Clinton in 2010. \u201cIs she taking medication?\u201d, Clinton asked in a diplomatic cable leaked to the press while she was US secretary of state. \u201cHow does stress affect her behaviour toward advisers and/or her decision-making?\u201d the memo added.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "US news"], "title": "Argentina president claims US plotting to oust her"},{"date": "2014-11-14T08:22:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "An Argentinian magistrate has called on Interpol \u2013 the international police organisation rather than the New York postpunk band \u2013 to use all \u201cnecessary means\u201d to summon Justin Bieber to a Buenos Aires court. The singer has been accused of assault by a photographer, and magistrate Facundo Cubas said Bieber will face arrest if he does not submit his testimony about the incident within the next 60 days.State-run news agency T\u00e9lam reported that Cubas ordered Argentina\u2019s Interpol branch to locate Bieber and inform him of the allegations against him. If the singer does not then return to the country, the magistrate threatened to issue an international warrant for his arrest. If Bieber does return, a guilty verdict could result in up to a year in jail. The controversy dates to alleged events on 9 November 2013, when Bieber and his entourage were partying at Buenos Aires\u2019s Ink nightclub. Diego Pesoa, a photographer, claims he was chased and beaten after trying to take photos of the star; although prosecutors have yet to lay charges, they wish to question Bieber about what happened that night.\u201cBieber has to come to Argentina, and it won\u2019t be to sing,\u201d Matias Morla, Pesoa\u2019s lawyer, told C5N TV. He claims Bieber ordered bodyguards to attack the paparazzo and Pesoa\u2019s resulting injuries required hospital treatment.Bieber has yet to respond to the allegations. Earlier this week he attended a prayer meeting and Bible study with the Pittsburgh Steelers NFL team and purchased an $11,385 Jesus face pendant at a New York jewellery shop. \u201cAny artist has ebbs and flows in their life and career,\u201d Bieber\u2019s mentor, Usher, said of the 20-year-old\u2019s recent troubles. \u201cI think the story is just begun.\u201d", "tags": ["Justin Bieber", "Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Argentina", "Americas"], "title": "Justin Bieber must return to Argentina \u2013 and Interpol are on his trail"},{"date": "2015-03-26T19:57:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A federal court of appeals dismissed charges against the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Thursday, regarding an alleged conspiracy to shield Iranian officials\u2019 from prosecution over their alleged role in the deadly 1994 bombing of a Buenos Aires Jewish community centre.The charges had originally been made by prosecutor Alberto Nisman in January, four days before he was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head in his Buenos Aires apartment.On 14 January, Nisman had presented a 289-page writ in court that he said unveiled a conspiracy headed by Fern\u00e1ndez to clear five high-ranking Iranian suspects of charges that they had masterminded the 1994 bombing of the Amia centre, in which 85 people were killed. Related: Death of prosecutor leaves Argentina's Jewish community angry and distrustful In a 2-1 vote, appeals judges dismissed Nisman\u2019s accusation, but there is a strong likelihood that prosecutor Germ\u00e1n Moldes \u2013 who upheld Nisman\u2019s charges before the judges \u2013 may appeal the decision to a higher court.Fern\u00e1ndez and other officials accused by Nisman of being involved in the alleged conspiracy have all flatly denied the charges.Nisman\u2019s mysterious death triggered a political earthquake, which has rocked Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s government. Opinion polls have shown roughly 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 a hypothesis propelled by the prosecutor\u2019s family and seemingly confirmed by their independent forensic tests. One month after his death, 400,000 people participated in a \u201cmarch of silence\u201d demanding justice for Nisman. The court investigating his death has stuck to the hypothesis of suicide.As the special prosecutor in charge of the investigation into the Amia bombing, Nisman had obtained Interpol arrest warrants against five Iranian officials that he charged with masterminding the 1994 bombing.Nisman claimed as evidence to support the charges of conspiracy, an agreement signed by Iran and Argentina in 2013 to set up a binational \u201ctruth commission\u201d to investigate the Amia attack. Nisman claimed that the agreement effectively neutralised his investigation and the Interpol arrest warrants against the Iranian suspects.Although the Iran agreement was blocked last year by a court ruling that declared it \u201cunconstitutional\u201d, Nisman decided to accuse Fern\u00e1ndez in January of attempting to block the court case against the Iranian suspects with that agreement. Related: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner: is the fairytale ending for Argentina's new Evita? Fern\u00e1ndez needed to close the court case against the Iranians \u201cas part of a new geopolitical alignment on the current world stage\u201d, Nisman said in his extensive writ. N\u00e9stor Kirchner, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s husband, who preceded her as president from 2003-2007, had resolutely rebuffed approaches from Iran proposing generous trade concessions in return for Argentina dropping the charges against its five citizens. Following his unexpected death from heart failure in 2010, Fern\u00e1ndez began seeking closer relations with Russia, China, Venezuela and Iran.\u201cFern\u00e1ndez made Argentina drop off the map of the world with these new alliances,\u201d said legislator Elisa Carri\u00f3, a presidential hopeful for Argentina\u2019s upcoming October elections. Nisman\u2019s accusation seemed to offer an explanation for Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s surprising about turn regarding Iran after her husband\u2019s death.\u201cWe had standing orders from Kirchner not to negotiate under any terms with Iran regarding Amia,\u201d said Roberto Garc\u00eda Morit\u00e1n, who served as deputy foreign minister under both Kirchner and Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cAnd Iran was very insistent.\u201d\u201cThey made offers of up to $4bn in wheat and maize purchases,\u201d Kirchner\u2019s former foreign minister, Rafael Bielsa, said in an interview with the newspaper Perfil after the \u201ctruth commission\u201d with Nisman was signed.Fern\u00e1ndez was also hoping to increase trade with Iran, a traditional market for Argentinian grains before the 1994 bombing, which soured relations between the two countries, Nisman argued in his writ.\u2022 The headline on this article was amended on 27 March 2015 to better reflect the story. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Iran"], "title": "Appeals court dismisses Iran cover-up charges against Argentina president"},{"date": "2015-03-26T19:57:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A federal court of appeals dismissed charges against the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Thursday, regarding an alleged conspiracy to shield Iranian officials\u2019 from prosecution over their alleged role in the deadly 1994 bombing of a Buenos Aires Jewish community centre.The charges had originally been made by prosecutor Alberto Nisman in January, four days before he was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head in his Buenos Aires apartment.On 14 January, Nisman had presented a 289-page writ in court that he said unveiled a conspiracy headed by Fern\u00e1ndez to clear five high-ranking Iranian suspects of charges that they had masterminded the 1994 bombing of the Amia centre, in which 85 people were killed. Related: Death of prosecutor leaves Argentina's Jewish community angry and distrustful In a 2-1 vote, appeals judges dismissed Nisman\u2019s accusation, but there is a strong likelihood that prosecutor Germ\u00e1n Moldes \u2013 who upheld Nisman\u2019s charges before the judges \u2013 may appeal the decision to a higher court.Fern\u00e1ndez and other officials accused by Nisman of being involved in the alleged conspiracy have all flatly denied the charges.Nisman\u2019s mysterious death triggered a political earthquake, which has rocked Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s government. Opinion polls have shown roughly 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 a hypothesis propelled by the prosecutor\u2019s family and seemingly confirmed by their independent forensic tests. One month after his death, 400,000 people participated in a \u201cmarch of silence\u201d demanding justice for Nisman. The court investigating his death has stuck to the hypothesis of suicide.As the special prosecutor in charge of the investigation into the Amia bombing, Nisman had obtained Interpol arrest warrants against five Iranian officials that he charged with masterminding the 1994 bombing.Nisman claimed as evidence to support the charges of conspiracy, an agreement signed by Iran and Argentina in 2013 to set up a binational \u201ctruth commission\u201d to investigate the Amia attack. Nisman claimed that the agreement effectively neutralised his investigation and the Interpol arrest warrants against the Iranian suspects.Although the Iran agreement was blocked last year by a court ruling that declared it \u201cunconstitutional\u201d, Nisman decided to accuse Fern\u00e1ndez in January of attempting to block the court case against the Iranian suspects with that agreement. Related: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner: is the fairytale ending for Argentina's new Evita? Fern\u00e1ndez needed to close the court case against the Iranians \u201cas part of a new geopolitical alignment on the current world stage\u201d, Nisman said in his extensive writ. N\u00e9stor Kirchner, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s husband, who preceded her as president from 2003-2007, had resolutely rebuffed approaches from Iran proposing generous trade concessions in return for Argentina dropping the charges against its five citizens. Following his unexpected death from heart failure in 2010, Fern\u00e1ndez began seeking closer relations with Russia, China, Venezuela and Iran.\u201cFern\u00e1ndez made Argentina drop off the map of the world with these new alliances,\u201d said legislator Elisa Carri\u00f3, a presidential hopeful for Argentina\u2019s upcoming October elections. Nisman\u2019s accusation seemed to offer an explanation for Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s surprising about turn regarding Iran after her husband\u2019s death.\u201cWe had standing orders from Kirchner not to negotiate under any terms with Iran regarding Amia,\u201d said Roberto Garc\u00eda Morit\u00e1n, who served as deputy foreign minister under both Kirchner and Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cAnd Iran was very insistent.\u201d\u201cThey made offers of up to $4bn in wheat and maize purchases,\u201d Kirchner\u2019s former foreign minister, Rafael Bielsa, said in an interview with the newspaper Perfil after the \u201ctruth commission\u201d with Nisman was signed.Fern\u00e1ndez was also hoping to increase trade with Iran, a traditional market for Argentinian grains before the 1994 bombing, which soured relations between the two countries, Nisman argued in his writ.\u2022 The headline on this article was amended on 27 March 2015 to better reflect the story. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Iran"], "title": "Appeals court dismisses Iran cover-up charges against Argentina president"},{"date": "2015-03-10T09:53:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "France is in mourning after three of its leading sportspeople were killed along with their film crew and pilots when two helicopters collided in Argentina during the filming of an endurance-style reality TV show.Camille Muffat, the swimmer who won three medals at the London Olympics in 2012, yachtswoman Florence Arthaud and the boxer Alexis Vastine were among 10 people killed in the crash in the western province of La Rioja near the Andes mountains. Related: Argentina helicopter crash: the sports stars who died The helicopters collided in mid-air just after takeoff while filming the adventure show Dropped for France\u2019s biggest private TV station, TF1. The programme, an adaptation of a Swedish format, took famous sporting figures blindfolded by helicopter and left them in the wilderness, having to use their skills to find their way back to civilisation.Eight French nationals were killed, including crew members, and two Argentinian pilots. There were no survivors.The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, said he was stupefied by the crash, which was an \u201cimmense sadness\u201d for France.The crash happened at about 5pm near the town of Villa Castelli, about 700 miles (1,100km) north of the capital, Buenos Aires. It was not immediately clear what caused the collision, although weather conditions were said to be good.Shooting of the TV show began in late February in Ushuaia, at the southern tip of South America in the glacial terrain of Patagonia. A cast and crew of about 80 people, mostly French, had been filming the series.\u201cThe whole of French sport is in mourning because we have lost three huge champions,\u201d the sports minister, Thierry Braillard, told RTL radio. He described how Arthaud was affectionately known as the \u201cfiancee of the Atlantic\u201d. She was one of the first women to carve a place in the world of sailing and in 1990 secured the record for the fastest solitary crossing of the North Atlantic.Muffat, 25, was regarded as one of France\u2019s most promising swimmers and won several medals at the 2012 London Olympics, including the 400 metres freestyle gold. She retired last summer. Vastine, 28, won bronze at the Beijing 2008 Olympics.Some of the country\u2019s top athletes offered their condolences and expressed their grief on Twitter. Muffat\u2019s fellow swimmer and London medallist, Yannick Agnel, tweeted: \u201cNot her\u201d.Sylvain Wiltord, the former Arsenal footballer and fellow cast member, tweeted: \u201cI am sad for my friends, I\u2019m shaking, I\u2019m horrified, I can\u2019t find the words, I don\u2019t want to say anything.\u201dJe suis triste pour mes amis , je tremble , je suis horrifi\u00e9 , je n'ai pas de mots , je ne veux rien dire #Tristesse #Pleurs #Jesuis\u00e0ParisNonce Paolini, head of TF1, said: \u201cWe\u2019re in shock and very sad.\u201dOne of the helicopters was piloted by a veteran of the 1982 Falklands war between Argentina and the UK. Juan Carlos Castillo was an experienced former pilot with the Argentinian air force who had flown more than 20 Antarctic missions, his wife, Cristina Alvarez, told the TN television news channel.\u201cI understand the crash happened at a very low altitude \u2013 under 100m,\u201d said Alvarez. \u201cIt\u2019s very difficult at that height to re-establish [control over] the machine and perform an auto-rotation emergency manoeuvre to land the helicopter without this happening.\u201d Castillo was a regular pilot for reality shows, the Dakar rally, as well as floods and other emergencies in La Rioja, she said.One of the helicopters was letting off \u201cexplosions that were out of place\u201d, according to David Ocampo, who was about 100m from where the helicopters landed. \u201cIt was like the earth moved when they fell,\u201d he told a local news channel.Ocampo said the helicopters seemed to be flying \u201cfive metres apart\u201d and it looked like \u201cthe first one stopped in the air and the other one swerved to try and avoid it but crashed into it\u201d.Ocampo ran to where the aircraft hit the ground. \u201cI ran to see if I could help anyone but all I could see was fire, it was all fire, fire,\u201d Ocampo said. \u201cI felt so bad I couldn\u2019t help anyone because of the fire.\u201dPolice arrived 20 minutes later and ambulances 10 minutes after that, Ocampo said.The bodies were removed from the crash site on Tuesday morning, La Rioja judge Virginia Bord\u00f3n said, and taken to a hospital at the nearby town of Villa Uni\u00f3n. They were then moved to the judicial morgue at the provincial capital city of La Rioja.Representatives from Airbus, which made the Eurocopter AS350 aircraft involved, and Turbomeca, which manufactured the motors, were expected to arrive at the scene, said La Rioja governor, Luis Bedder Herrera.It is the second time in two years that a reality show produced by the production company ALP for TF1 has been hit by tragedy.In April 2013, during filming for France\u2019s longest-running reality show, the desert island challenge Koh-Lanta, a 25-year-old contestant died after one of the on-screen challenges, having complained of heart pains. The show\u2019s doctor was later found dead in his hotel room near the set, leaving a suicide note in which he said his name had been sullied by insinuations that not enough was done for the contestant and he could no longer stand the media pressure.", "tags": ["France", "Argentina", "Air transport", "World news", "Americas", "Europe"], "title": "France mourns sports stars killed in Argentina helicopter crash"},{"date": "2015-03-26T19:57:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A federal court of appeals dismissed charges against the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Thursday, regarding an alleged conspiracy to shield Iranian officials\u2019 from prosecution over their alleged role in the deadly 1994 bombing of a Buenos Aires Jewish community centre.The charges had originally been made by prosecutor Alberto Nisman in January, four days before he was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head in his Buenos Aires apartment.On 14 January, Nisman had presented a 289-page writ in court that he said unveiled a conspiracy headed by Fern\u00e1ndez to clear five high-ranking Iranian suspects of charges that they had masterminded the 1994 bombing of the Amia centre, in which 85 people were killed. Related: Death of prosecutor leaves Argentina's Jewish community angry and distrustful In a 2-1 vote, appeals judges dismissed Nisman\u2019s accusation, but there is a strong likelihood that prosecutor Germ\u00e1n Moldes \u2013 who upheld Nisman\u2019s charges before the judges \u2013 may appeal the decision to a higher court.Fern\u00e1ndez and other officials accused by Nisman of being involved in the alleged conspiracy have all flatly denied the charges.Nisman\u2019s mysterious death triggered a political earthquake, which has rocked Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s government. Opinion polls have shown roughly 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 a hypothesis propelled by the prosecutor\u2019s family and seemingly confirmed by their independent forensic tests. One month after his death, 400,000 people participated in a \u201cmarch of silence\u201d demanding justice for Nisman. The court investigating his death has stuck to the hypothesis of suicide.As the special prosecutor in charge of the investigation into the Amia bombing, Nisman had obtained Interpol arrest warrants against five Iranian officials that he charged with masterminding the 1994 bombing.Nisman claimed as evidence to support the charges of conspiracy, an agreement signed by Iran and Argentina in 2013 to set up a binational \u201ctruth commission\u201d to investigate the Amia attack. Nisman claimed that the agreement effectively neutralised his investigation and the Interpol arrest warrants against the Iranian suspects.Although the Iran agreement was blocked last year by a court ruling that declared it \u201cunconstitutional\u201d, Nisman decided to accuse Fern\u00e1ndez in January of attempting to block the court case against the Iranian suspects with that agreement. Related: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner: is the fairytale ending for Argentina's new Evita? Fern\u00e1ndez needed to close the court case against the Iranians \u201cas part of a new geopolitical alignment on the current world stage\u201d, Nisman said in his extensive writ. N\u00e9stor Kirchner, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s husband, who preceded her as president from 2003-2007, had resolutely rebuffed approaches from Iran proposing generous trade concessions in return for Argentina dropping the charges against its five citizens. Following his unexpected death from heart failure in 2010, Fern\u00e1ndez began seeking closer relations with Russia, China, Venezuela and Iran.\u201cFern\u00e1ndez made Argentina drop off the map of the world with these new alliances,\u201d said legislator Elisa Carri\u00f3, a presidential hopeful for Argentina\u2019s upcoming October elections. Nisman\u2019s accusation seemed to offer an explanation for Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s surprising about turn regarding Iran after her husband\u2019s death.\u201cWe had standing orders from Kirchner not to negotiate under any terms with Iran regarding Amia,\u201d said Roberto Garc\u00eda Morit\u00e1n, who served as deputy foreign minister under both Kirchner and Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cAnd Iran was very insistent.\u201d\u201cThey made offers of up to $4bn in wheat and maize purchases,\u201d Kirchner\u2019s former foreign minister, Rafael Bielsa, said in an interview with the newspaper Perfil after the \u201ctruth commission\u201d with Nisman was signed.Fern\u00e1ndez was also hoping to increase trade with Iran, a traditional market for Argentinian grains before the 1994 bombing, which soured relations between the two countries, Nisman argued in his writ.\u2022 The headline on this article was amended on 27 March 2015 to better reflect the story. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Iran"], "title": "Appeals court dismisses Iran cover-up charges against Argentina president"},{"date": "2015-03-10T09:53:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "France is in mourning after three of its leading sportspeople were killed along with their film crew and pilots when two helicopters collided in Argentina during the filming of an endurance-style reality TV show.Camille Muffat, the swimmer who won three medals at the London Olympics in 2012, yachtswoman Florence Arthaud and the boxer Alexis Vastine were among 10 people killed in the crash in the western province of La Rioja near the Andes mountains. Related: Argentina helicopter crash: the sports stars who died The helicopters collided in mid-air just after takeoff while filming the adventure show Dropped for France\u2019s biggest private TV station, TF1. The programme, an adaptation of a Swedish format, took famous sporting figures blindfolded by helicopter and left them in the wilderness, having to use their skills to find their way back to civilisation.Eight French nationals were killed, including crew members, and two Argentinian pilots. There were no survivors.The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, said he was stupefied by the crash, which was an \u201cimmense sadness\u201d for France.The crash happened at about 5pm near the town of Villa Castelli, about 700 miles (1,100km) north of the capital, Buenos Aires. It was not immediately clear what caused the collision, although weather conditions were said to be good.Shooting of the TV show began in late February in Ushuaia, at the southern tip of South America in the glacial terrain of Patagonia. A cast and crew of about 80 people, mostly French, had been filming the series.\u201cThe whole of French sport is in mourning because we have lost three huge champions,\u201d the sports minister, Thierry Braillard, told RTL radio. He described how Arthaud was affectionately known as the \u201cfiancee of the Atlantic\u201d. She was one of the first women to carve a place in the world of sailing and in 1990 secured the record for the fastest solitary crossing of the North Atlantic.Muffat, 25, was regarded as one of France\u2019s most promising swimmers and won several medals at the 2012 London Olympics, including the 400 metres freestyle gold. She retired last summer. Vastine, 28, won bronze at the Beijing 2008 Olympics.Some of the country\u2019s top athletes offered their condolences and expressed their grief on Twitter. Muffat\u2019s fellow swimmer and London medallist, Yannick Agnel, tweeted: \u201cNot her\u201d.Sylvain Wiltord, the former Arsenal footballer and fellow cast member, tweeted: \u201cI am sad for my friends, I\u2019m shaking, I\u2019m horrified, I can\u2019t find the words, I don\u2019t want to say anything.\u201dJe suis triste pour mes amis , je tremble , je suis horrifi\u00e9 , je n'ai pas de mots , je ne veux rien dire #Tristesse #Pleurs #Jesuis\u00e0ParisNonce Paolini, head of TF1, said: \u201cWe\u2019re in shock and very sad.\u201dOne of the helicopters was piloted by a veteran of the 1982 Falklands war between Argentina and the UK. Juan Carlos Castillo was an experienced former pilot with the Argentinian air force who had flown more than 20 Antarctic missions, his wife, Cristina Alvarez, told the TN television news channel.\u201cI understand the crash happened at a very low altitude \u2013 under 100m,\u201d said Alvarez. \u201cIt\u2019s very difficult at that height to re-establish [control over] the machine and perform an auto-rotation emergency manoeuvre to land the helicopter without this happening.\u201d Castillo was a regular pilot for reality shows, the Dakar rally, as well as floods and other emergencies in La Rioja, she said.One of the helicopters was letting off \u201cexplosions that were out of place\u201d, according to David Ocampo, who was about 100m from where the helicopters landed. \u201cIt was like the earth moved when they fell,\u201d he told a local news channel.Ocampo said the helicopters seemed to be flying \u201cfive metres apart\u201d and it looked like \u201cthe first one stopped in the air and the other one swerved to try and avoid it but crashed into it\u201d.Ocampo ran to where the aircraft hit the ground. \u201cI ran to see if I could help anyone but all I could see was fire, it was all fire, fire,\u201d Ocampo said. \u201cI felt so bad I couldn\u2019t help anyone because of the fire.\u201dPolice arrived 20 minutes later and ambulances 10 minutes after that, Ocampo said.The bodies were removed from the crash site on Tuesday morning, La Rioja judge Virginia Bord\u00f3n said, and taken to a hospital at the nearby town of Villa Uni\u00f3n. They were then moved to the judicial morgue at the provincial capital city of La Rioja.Representatives from Airbus, which made the Eurocopter AS350 aircraft involved, and Turbomeca, which manufactured the motors, were expected to arrive at the scene, said La Rioja governor, Luis Bedder Herrera.It is the second time in two years that a reality show produced by the production company ALP for TF1 has been hit by tragedy.In April 2013, during filming for France\u2019s longest-running reality show, the desert island challenge Koh-Lanta, a 25-year-old contestant died after one of the on-screen challenges, having complained of heart pains. The show\u2019s doctor was later found dead in his hotel room near the set, leaving a suicide note in which he said his name had been sullied by insinuations that not enough was done for the contestant and he could no longer stand the media pressure.", "tags": ["France", "Argentina", "Air transport", "World news", "Americas", "Europe"], "title": "France mourns sports stars killed in Argentina helicopter crash"},{"date": "2015-03-09T16:04:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is seeking to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC secretly helped clients funnel into offshore accounts to evade tax.Ricardo Echegaray, head of the Argentinian tax authority, Afip, said in London on Monday that his officials had identified 4,040 undisclosed bank accounts held by Argentinian individuals and companies in Switzerland through HSBC\u2019s Geneva subsidiary.Afip has already begun legal proceedings in Buenos Aires against the individual HSBC account holders for criminal tax evasion, but Echegaray said the authority would also be seeking redress from HSBC\u2019s holding company for facilitating tax evasion through its Argentinian and Swiss branches.The latest revelations emerged on the day directors of HSBC were facing a grilling by a committee of British parliamentarians over the bank\u2019s role in facilitating tax evasion and alleged money laundering. A joint investigation by the Guardian, the BBC, Le Monde and other media outlets into a cache of documents obtained by a former employee of the bank found that it had turned a blind eye to illegal activity of wealthy clients and arms dealers. The Argentinians said they were applying for an international arrest warrant for a UK-domiciled Argentinian accountant, Miguel Abadi, who they allege funnelled $1.4bn offshore through a single London-based investment fund called Gems Advisors [see footnote].HSBC said in a statement it had been \u201ccooperating fully with Argentine regulators, including the tax authority and the judiciary, since allegations were first made public last year, and we will continue to do so\u201d.Abadi\u2019s spokesman said: \u201cMr Abadi and Gems Advisors have never had any access to any private Argentinian funds. The funds belong to investors who are banks, pension funds and insurance funds. He has offered full cooperation to the Argentinian authorities, and has not been made aware of any arrest warrant.\u201dAccording to Echegaray, HSBC\u2019s subsidiary in Argentina designed a platform to help clients hide funds in Swiss accounts. Outside lawyers and accountants set up \u201cghost\u201d networks of offshore companies, to make the transfers even more opaque. Afip has made formal requests for information on the networks behind the Swiss accounts to the authorities in Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, and Uruguay as well. Afip has raided the Argentinian branch of HSBC and seized records and files, but was told many documents relating to the Swiss accounts had been stored at a facility which suffered an arson attack last year. Around 15% of the 4,040 account holders had changed their tax returns and declared offshore accounts since the Afip investigation was made public, the authority said. The Argentinian authorities were given the data on the secret Swiss accounts by the French government, which had itself received them from whistleblower and former employee of HSBC in Switzerland Herv\u00e9 Falciani.The same leak led to investigations in Belgium and France. The French authorities have recovered \u00a3188m in taxes and fines from a list of 3,000 clients and Spain has recovered \u00a3220m, also from 3,000 clients.HMRC has faced criticism for prosecuting just one out of the 1,000 individuals. The permanent secretary for the revenue, Edward Troup, was also scheduled to appear before MPs on the public accounts committee on Monday.\u2022 This footnote was added on 12 January 2016 and updated on 16 February 2016. Representatives for Miguel Abadi have pointed out that the application by Afip for an arrest warrant was rejected by the Argentine judiciary. Further, the allegations against Abadi are denied and have not been substantiated. Mr Abadi has voluntarily provided information to the Argentine authorities. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Argentina", "Americas", "Banking", "Business", "World news", "HMRC"], "title": "Argentina seeks to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC helped offshore"},{"date": "2015-03-26T19:57:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A federal court of appeals dismissed charges against the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Thursday, regarding an alleged conspiracy to shield Iranian officials\u2019 from prosecution over their alleged role in the deadly 1994 bombing of a Buenos Aires Jewish community centre.The charges had originally been made by prosecutor Alberto Nisman in January, four days before he was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head in his Buenos Aires apartment.On 14 January, Nisman had presented a 289-page writ in court that he said unveiled a conspiracy headed by Fern\u00e1ndez to clear five high-ranking Iranian suspects of charges that they had masterminded the 1994 bombing of the Amia centre, in which 85 people were killed. Related: Death of prosecutor leaves Argentina's Jewish community angry and distrustful In a 2-1 vote, appeals judges dismissed Nisman\u2019s accusation, but there is a strong likelihood that prosecutor Germ\u00e1n Moldes \u2013 who upheld Nisman\u2019s charges before the judges \u2013 may appeal the decision to a higher court.Fern\u00e1ndez and other officials accused by Nisman of being involved in the alleged conspiracy have all flatly denied the charges.Nisman\u2019s mysterious death triggered a political earthquake, which has rocked Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s government. Opinion polls have shown roughly 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 a hypothesis propelled by the prosecutor\u2019s family and seemingly confirmed by their independent forensic tests. One month after his death, 400,000 people participated in a \u201cmarch of silence\u201d demanding justice for Nisman. The court investigating his death has stuck to the hypothesis of suicide.As the special prosecutor in charge of the investigation into the Amia bombing, Nisman had obtained Interpol arrest warrants against five Iranian officials that he charged with masterminding the 1994 bombing.Nisman claimed as evidence to support the charges of conspiracy, an agreement signed by Iran and Argentina in 2013 to set up a binational \u201ctruth commission\u201d to investigate the Amia attack. Nisman claimed that the agreement effectively neutralised his investigation and the Interpol arrest warrants against the Iranian suspects.Although the Iran agreement was blocked last year by a court ruling that declared it \u201cunconstitutional\u201d, Nisman decided to accuse Fern\u00e1ndez in January of attempting to block the court case against the Iranian suspects with that agreement. Related: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner: is the fairytale ending for Argentina's new Evita? Fern\u00e1ndez needed to close the court case against the Iranians \u201cas part of a new geopolitical alignment on the current world stage\u201d, Nisman said in his extensive writ. N\u00e9stor Kirchner, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s husband, who preceded her as president from 2003-2007, had resolutely rebuffed approaches from Iran proposing generous trade concessions in return for Argentina dropping the charges against its five citizens. Following his unexpected death from heart failure in 2010, Fern\u00e1ndez began seeking closer relations with Russia, China, Venezuela and Iran.\u201cFern\u00e1ndez made Argentina drop off the map of the world with these new alliances,\u201d said legislator Elisa Carri\u00f3, a presidential hopeful for Argentina\u2019s upcoming October elections. Nisman\u2019s accusation seemed to offer an explanation for Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s surprising about turn regarding Iran after her husband\u2019s death.\u201cWe had standing orders from Kirchner not to negotiate under any terms with Iran regarding Amia,\u201d said Roberto Garc\u00eda Morit\u00e1n, who served as deputy foreign minister under both Kirchner and Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cAnd Iran was very insistent.\u201d\u201cThey made offers of up to $4bn in wheat and maize purchases,\u201d Kirchner\u2019s former foreign minister, Rafael Bielsa, said in an interview with the newspaper Perfil after the \u201ctruth commission\u201d with Nisman was signed.Fern\u00e1ndez was also hoping to increase trade with Iran, a traditional market for Argentinian grains before the 1994 bombing, which soured relations between the two countries, Nisman argued in his writ.\u2022 The headline on this article was amended on 27 March 2015 to better reflect the story. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Iran"], "title": "Appeals court dismisses Iran cover-up charges against Argentina president"},{"date": "2015-03-10T09:53:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "France is in mourning after three of its leading sportspeople were killed along with their film crew and pilots when two helicopters collided in Argentina during the filming of an endurance-style reality TV show.Camille Muffat, the swimmer who won three medals at the London Olympics in 2012, yachtswoman Florence Arthaud and the boxer Alexis Vastine were among 10 people killed in the crash in the western province of La Rioja near the Andes mountains. Related: Argentina helicopter crash: the sports stars who died The helicopters collided in mid-air just after takeoff while filming the adventure show Dropped for France\u2019s biggest private TV station, TF1. The programme, an adaptation of a Swedish format, took famous sporting figures blindfolded by helicopter and left them in the wilderness, having to use their skills to find their way back to civilisation.Eight French nationals were killed, including crew members, and two Argentinian pilots. There were no survivors.The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, said he was stupefied by the crash, which was an \u201cimmense sadness\u201d for France.The crash happened at about 5pm near the town of Villa Castelli, about 700 miles (1,100km) north of the capital, Buenos Aires. It was not immediately clear what caused the collision, although weather conditions were said to be good.Shooting of the TV show began in late February in Ushuaia, at the southern tip of South America in the glacial terrain of Patagonia. A cast and crew of about 80 people, mostly French, had been filming the series.\u201cThe whole of French sport is in mourning because we have lost three huge champions,\u201d the sports minister, Thierry Braillard, told RTL radio. He described how Arthaud was affectionately known as the \u201cfiancee of the Atlantic\u201d. She was one of the first women to carve a place in the world of sailing and in 1990 secured the record for the fastest solitary crossing of the North Atlantic.Muffat, 25, was regarded as one of France\u2019s most promising swimmers and won several medals at the 2012 London Olympics, including the 400 metres freestyle gold. She retired last summer. Vastine, 28, won bronze at the Beijing 2008 Olympics.Some of the country\u2019s top athletes offered their condolences and expressed their grief on Twitter. Muffat\u2019s fellow swimmer and London medallist, Yannick Agnel, tweeted: \u201cNot her\u201d.Sylvain Wiltord, the former Arsenal footballer and fellow cast member, tweeted: \u201cI am sad for my friends, I\u2019m shaking, I\u2019m horrified, I can\u2019t find the words, I don\u2019t want to say anything.\u201dJe suis triste pour mes amis , je tremble , je suis horrifi\u00e9 , je n'ai pas de mots , je ne veux rien dire #Tristesse #Pleurs #Jesuis\u00e0ParisNonce Paolini, head of TF1, said: \u201cWe\u2019re in shock and very sad.\u201dOne of the helicopters was piloted by a veteran of the 1982 Falklands war between Argentina and the UK. Juan Carlos Castillo was an experienced former pilot with the Argentinian air force who had flown more than 20 Antarctic missions, his wife, Cristina Alvarez, told the TN television news channel.\u201cI understand the crash happened at a very low altitude \u2013 under 100m,\u201d said Alvarez. \u201cIt\u2019s very difficult at that height to re-establish [control over] the machine and perform an auto-rotation emergency manoeuvre to land the helicopter without this happening.\u201d Castillo was a regular pilot for reality shows, the Dakar rally, as well as floods and other emergencies in La Rioja, she said.One of the helicopters was letting off \u201cexplosions that were out of place\u201d, according to David Ocampo, who was about 100m from where the helicopters landed. \u201cIt was like the earth moved when they fell,\u201d he told a local news channel.Ocampo said the helicopters seemed to be flying \u201cfive metres apart\u201d and it looked like \u201cthe first one stopped in the air and the other one swerved to try and avoid it but crashed into it\u201d.Ocampo ran to where the aircraft hit the ground. \u201cI ran to see if I could help anyone but all I could see was fire, it was all fire, fire,\u201d Ocampo said. \u201cI felt so bad I couldn\u2019t help anyone because of the fire.\u201dPolice arrived 20 minutes later and ambulances 10 minutes after that, Ocampo said.The bodies were removed from the crash site on Tuesday morning, La Rioja judge Virginia Bord\u00f3n said, and taken to a hospital at the nearby town of Villa Uni\u00f3n. They were then moved to the judicial morgue at the provincial capital city of La Rioja.Representatives from Airbus, which made the Eurocopter AS350 aircraft involved, and Turbomeca, which manufactured the motors, were expected to arrive at the scene, said La Rioja governor, Luis Bedder Herrera.It is the second time in two years that a reality show produced by the production company ALP for TF1 has been hit by tragedy.In April 2013, during filming for France\u2019s longest-running reality show, the desert island challenge Koh-Lanta, a 25-year-old contestant died after one of the on-screen challenges, having complained of heart pains. The show\u2019s doctor was later found dead in his hotel room near the set, leaving a suicide note in which he said his name had been sullied by insinuations that not enough was done for the contestant and he could no longer stand the media pressure.", "tags": ["France", "Argentina", "Air transport", "World news", "Americas", "Europe"], "title": "France mourns sports stars killed in Argentina helicopter crash"},{"date": "2015-03-09T16:04:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is seeking to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC secretly helped clients funnel into offshore accounts to evade tax.Ricardo Echegaray, head of the Argentinian tax authority, Afip, said in London on Monday that his officials had identified 4,040 undisclosed bank accounts held by Argentinian individuals and companies in Switzerland through HSBC\u2019s Geneva subsidiary.Afip has already begun legal proceedings in Buenos Aires against the individual HSBC account holders for criminal tax evasion, but Echegaray said the authority would also be seeking redress from HSBC\u2019s holding company for facilitating tax evasion through its Argentinian and Swiss branches.The latest revelations emerged on the day directors of HSBC were facing a grilling by a committee of British parliamentarians over the bank\u2019s role in facilitating tax evasion and alleged money laundering. A joint investigation by the Guardian, the BBC, Le Monde and other media outlets into a cache of documents obtained by a former employee of the bank found that it had turned a blind eye to illegal activity of wealthy clients and arms dealers. The Argentinians said they were applying for an international arrest warrant for a UK-domiciled Argentinian accountant, Miguel Abadi, who they allege funnelled $1.4bn offshore through a single London-based investment fund called Gems Advisors [see footnote].HSBC said in a statement it had been \u201ccooperating fully with Argentine regulators, including the tax authority and the judiciary, since allegations were first made public last year, and we will continue to do so\u201d.Abadi\u2019s spokesman said: \u201cMr Abadi and Gems Advisors have never had any access to any private Argentinian funds. The funds belong to investors who are banks, pension funds and insurance funds. He has offered full cooperation to the Argentinian authorities, and has not been made aware of any arrest warrant.\u201dAccording to Echegaray, HSBC\u2019s subsidiary in Argentina designed a platform to help clients hide funds in Swiss accounts. Outside lawyers and accountants set up \u201cghost\u201d networks of offshore companies, to make the transfers even more opaque. Afip has made formal requests for information on the networks behind the Swiss accounts to the authorities in Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, and Uruguay as well. Afip has raided the Argentinian branch of HSBC and seized records and files, but was told many documents relating to the Swiss accounts had been stored at a facility which suffered an arson attack last year. Around 15% of the 4,040 account holders had changed their tax returns and declared offshore accounts since the Afip investigation was made public, the authority said. The Argentinian authorities were given the data on the secret Swiss accounts by the French government, which had itself received them from whistleblower and former employee of HSBC in Switzerland Herv\u00e9 Falciani.The same leak led to investigations in Belgium and France. The French authorities have recovered \u00a3188m in taxes and fines from a list of 3,000 clients and Spain has recovered \u00a3220m, also from 3,000 clients.HMRC has faced criticism for prosecuting just one out of the 1,000 individuals. The permanent secretary for the revenue, Edward Troup, was also scheduled to appear before MPs on the public accounts committee on Monday.\u2022 This footnote was added on 12 January 2016 and updated on 16 February 2016. Representatives for Miguel Abadi have pointed out that the application by Afip for an arrest warrant was rejected by the Argentine judiciary. Further, the allegations against Abadi are denied and have not been substantiated. Mr Abadi has voluntarily provided information to the Argentine authorities. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Argentina", "Americas", "Banking", "Business", "World news", "HMRC"], "title": "Argentina seeks to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC helped offshore"},{"date": "2015-02-20T19:05:19Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Silently marching through Buenos Aires in the heavy rain, the mourners remembered a father, an ex-husband, a son, a colleague.With 400,000 people standing alongside them seeking justice for Alberto Nisman, it took the group of prosecutors, Nisman\u2019s former wife and his daughters, mother and relatives, almost two and a half hours to walk the 10 blocks that separate the Plaza de los dos Congresos from the Plaza de Mayo.Yet Argentinian people know that with every day that passes they are getting further from learning the truth about Nisman\u2019s death on 18 January.The late prosecutor had been carrying out the judicial investigation of Iran\u2019s involvement in the attack against the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association of Buenos Aires in 1994, in which 85 people died.During a 10-year investigation, Nisman gathered phone recordings that revealed an impunity deal between the Iranian and Argentinian governments in exchange for economic benefits. Nisman\u2019s report explained that in the midst of a reserves crisis, Iran would sell cheap oil and buy grains and weapons from Argentina.Furthermore, in some of the calls, the activist and politician Luis D\u2019El\u00eda was given orders from an alleged Iranian spy, Yussuf Khalil. And it was uncovered that this representative communicated such information with Iranians including Mohsen Rabbani, one of the accused.Nisman affirmed that these deals had been guaranteed by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner and the current Argentinian minister of foreign relations, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, among others.Four days after Nisman submitted his findings, and the day before he was scheduled to testify in front of Congress about his accusations, he was found dead in his apartment.When news of Nisman\u2019s death broke, an official statement announced that he had committed suicide. Media financed by the government told the same story. Additionally, the accounts of officials and the police seemed to contradict each other about facts such as the time they arrived and what they said; or it emerged that they simply forget to carry out judicial expertise, which is their daily job. That is why we can say that this death smells fishy.Now, over a month since Nisman died, the authorities have yet to determine whether his death was suicide or murder. Details of basic procedures, such as the autopsy confirming how the bullet entered his head and the toxicological result, have not been released. Yet doubts and scepticism increase each day as information trickles out.Two of Nisman\u2019s bodyguards have given contradictory explanations of the events that took place the night of Nisman\u2019s death. The judge, Manuel De Campos, was prevented from entering Nisman\u2019s apartment for 30 minutes, until the state secretary for public security arrived.The prosecutor Viviana Fein appeared on the scene 10 minutes later, and is said to have immediately lost control of the situation. The security cameras of the building did not work properly. Two witnesses have said that inside Nisman\u2019s apartment more than 50 people were at the scene, eating croissants and drinking mate (a typical Argentinian herbal drink). It was also alleged that any person could go through the door of the bathroom where Nisman\u2019s body was found, and that they saw traces of blood in the hallway.Even Fern\u00e1ndez feels that there is something strange going on, proclaiming \u201cthe suicide (I\u2019m convinced) was no suicide\u201d. But Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s theory damages her reputation as she could be blamed, at least, for being ineffective in controlling the services she has been managing for 12 years.The president is yet to express her condolences to Nisman\u2019s family, instead saying of the demonstrators: \u201cWe choose singing and happiness, and leave silence to them,\u201d \u2013 which speaks volumes.Slowly, a criminal case is turning into a political affair with no end in sight. And the investigation is falling to pieces, at the convenience of those who didn\u2019t want Nisman around.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "Iran"], "title": "Argentina, Iran and the strange death of Alberto Nisman | Gabriel Bracesco"},{"date": "2015-03-26T19:57:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A federal court of appeals dismissed charges against the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Thursday, regarding an alleged conspiracy to shield Iranian officials\u2019 from prosecution over their alleged role in the deadly 1994 bombing of a Buenos Aires Jewish community centre.The charges had originally been made by prosecutor Alberto Nisman in January, four days before he was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head in his Buenos Aires apartment.On 14 January, Nisman had presented a 289-page writ in court that he said unveiled a conspiracy headed by Fern\u00e1ndez to clear five high-ranking Iranian suspects of charges that they had masterminded the 1994 bombing of the Amia centre, in which 85 people were killed. Related: Death of prosecutor leaves Argentina's Jewish community angry and distrustful In a 2-1 vote, appeals judges dismissed Nisman\u2019s accusation, but there is a strong likelihood that prosecutor Germ\u00e1n Moldes \u2013 who upheld Nisman\u2019s charges before the judges \u2013 may appeal the decision to a higher court.Fern\u00e1ndez and other officials accused by Nisman of being involved in the alleged conspiracy have all flatly denied the charges.Nisman\u2019s mysterious death triggered a political earthquake, which has rocked Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s government. Opinion polls have shown roughly 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 a hypothesis propelled by the prosecutor\u2019s family and seemingly confirmed by their independent forensic tests. One month after his death, 400,000 people participated in a \u201cmarch of silence\u201d demanding justice for Nisman. The court investigating his death has stuck to the hypothesis of suicide.As the special prosecutor in charge of the investigation into the Amia bombing, Nisman had obtained Interpol arrest warrants against five Iranian officials that he charged with masterminding the 1994 bombing.Nisman claimed as evidence to support the charges of conspiracy, an agreement signed by Iran and Argentina in 2013 to set up a binational \u201ctruth commission\u201d to investigate the Amia attack. Nisman claimed that the agreement effectively neutralised his investigation and the Interpol arrest warrants against the Iranian suspects.Although the Iran agreement was blocked last year by a court ruling that declared it \u201cunconstitutional\u201d, Nisman decided to accuse Fern\u00e1ndez in January of attempting to block the court case against the Iranian suspects with that agreement. Related: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner: is the fairytale ending for Argentina's new Evita? Fern\u00e1ndez needed to close the court case against the Iranians \u201cas part of a new geopolitical alignment on the current world stage\u201d, Nisman said in his extensive writ. N\u00e9stor Kirchner, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s husband, who preceded her as president from 2003-2007, had resolutely rebuffed approaches from Iran proposing generous trade concessions in return for Argentina dropping the charges against its five citizens. Following his unexpected death from heart failure in 2010, Fern\u00e1ndez began seeking closer relations with Russia, China, Venezuela and Iran.\u201cFern\u00e1ndez made Argentina drop off the map of the world with these new alliances,\u201d said legislator Elisa Carri\u00f3, a presidential hopeful for Argentina\u2019s upcoming October elections. Nisman\u2019s accusation seemed to offer an explanation for Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s surprising about turn regarding Iran after her husband\u2019s death.\u201cWe had standing orders from Kirchner not to negotiate under any terms with Iran regarding Amia,\u201d said Roberto Garc\u00eda Morit\u00e1n, who served as deputy foreign minister under both Kirchner and Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cAnd Iran was very insistent.\u201d\u201cThey made offers of up to $4bn in wheat and maize purchases,\u201d Kirchner\u2019s former foreign minister, Rafael Bielsa, said in an interview with the newspaper Perfil after the \u201ctruth commission\u201d with Nisman was signed.Fern\u00e1ndez was also hoping to increase trade with Iran, a traditional market for Argentinian grains before the 1994 bombing, which soured relations between the two countries, Nisman argued in his writ.\u2022 The headline on this article was amended on 27 March 2015 to better reflect the story. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Iran"], "title": "Appeals court dismisses Iran cover-up charges against Argentina president"},{"date": "2015-03-10T09:53:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "France is in mourning after three of its leading sportspeople were killed along with their film crew and pilots when two helicopters collided in Argentina during the filming of an endurance-style reality TV show.Camille Muffat, the swimmer who won three medals at the London Olympics in 2012, yachtswoman Florence Arthaud and the boxer Alexis Vastine were among 10 people killed in the crash in the western province of La Rioja near the Andes mountains. Related: Argentina helicopter crash: the sports stars who died The helicopters collided in mid-air just after takeoff while filming the adventure show Dropped for France\u2019s biggest private TV station, TF1. The programme, an adaptation of a Swedish format, took famous sporting figures blindfolded by helicopter and left them in the wilderness, having to use their skills to find their way back to civilisation.Eight French nationals were killed, including crew members, and two Argentinian pilots. There were no survivors.The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, said he was stupefied by the crash, which was an \u201cimmense sadness\u201d for France.The crash happened at about 5pm near the town of Villa Castelli, about 700 miles (1,100km) north of the capital, Buenos Aires. It was not immediately clear what caused the collision, although weather conditions were said to be good.Shooting of the TV show began in late February in Ushuaia, at the southern tip of South America in the glacial terrain of Patagonia. A cast and crew of about 80 people, mostly French, had been filming the series.\u201cThe whole of French sport is in mourning because we have lost three huge champions,\u201d the sports minister, Thierry Braillard, told RTL radio. He described how Arthaud was affectionately known as the \u201cfiancee of the Atlantic\u201d. She was one of the first women to carve a place in the world of sailing and in 1990 secured the record for the fastest solitary crossing of the North Atlantic.Muffat, 25, was regarded as one of France\u2019s most promising swimmers and won several medals at the 2012 London Olympics, including the 400 metres freestyle gold. She retired last summer. Vastine, 28, won bronze at the Beijing 2008 Olympics.Some of the country\u2019s top athletes offered their condolences and expressed their grief on Twitter. Muffat\u2019s fellow swimmer and London medallist, Yannick Agnel, tweeted: \u201cNot her\u201d.Sylvain Wiltord, the former Arsenal footballer and fellow cast member, tweeted: \u201cI am sad for my friends, I\u2019m shaking, I\u2019m horrified, I can\u2019t find the words, I don\u2019t want to say anything.\u201dJe suis triste pour mes amis , je tremble , je suis horrifi\u00e9 , je n'ai pas de mots , je ne veux rien dire #Tristesse #Pleurs #Jesuis\u00e0ParisNonce Paolini, head of TF1, said: \u201cWe\u2019re in shock and very sad.\u201dOne of the helicopters was piloted by a veteran of the 1982 Falklands war between Argentina and the UK. Juan Carlos Castillo was an experienced former pilot with the Argentinian air force who had flown more than 20 Antarctic missions, his wife, Cristina Alvarez, told the TN television news channel.\u201cI understand the crash happened at a very low altitude \u2013 under 100m,\u201d said Alvarez. \u201cIt\u2019s very difficult at that height to re-establish [control over] the machine and perform an auto-rotation emergency manoeuvre to land the helicopter without this happening.\u201d Castillo was a regular pilot for reality shows, the Dakar rally, as well as floods and other emergencies in La Rioja, she said.One of the helicopters was letting off \u201cexplosions that were out of place\u201d, according to David Ocampo, who was about 100m from where the helicopters landed. \u201cIt was like the earth moved when they fell,\u201d he told a local news channel.Ocampo said the helicopters seemed to be flying \u201cfive metres apart\u201d and it looked like \u201cthe first one stopped in the air and the other one swerved to try and avoid it but crashed into it\u201d.Ocampo ran to where the aircraft hit the ground. \u201cI ran to see if I could help anyone but all I could see was fire, it was all fire, fire,\u201d Ocampo said. \u201cI felt so bad I couldn\u2019t help anyone because of the fire.\u201dPolice arrived 20 minutes later and ambulances 10 minutes after that, Ocampo said.The bodies were removed from the crash site on Tuesday morning, La Rioja judge Virginia Bord\u00f3n said, and taken to a hospital at the nearby town of Villa Uni\u00f3n. They were then moved to the judicial morgue at the provincial capital city of La Rioja.Representatives from Airbus, which made the Eurocopter AS350 aircraft involved, and Turbomeca, which manufactured the motors, were expected to arrive at the scene, said La Rioja governor, Luis Bedder Herrera.It is the second time in two years that a reality show produced by the production company ALP for TF1 has been hit by tragedy.In April 2013, during filming for France\u2019s longest-running reality show, the desert island challenge Koh-Lanta, a 25-year-old contestant died after one of the on-screen challenges, having complained of heart pains. The show\u2019s doctor was later found dead in his hotel room near the set, leaving a suicide note in which he said his name had been sullied by insinuations that not enough was done for the contestant and he could no longer stand the media pressure.", "tags": ["France", "Argentina", "Air transport", "World news", "Americas", "Europe"], "title": "France mourns sports stars killed in Argentina helicopter crash"},{"date": "2015-03-09T16:04:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is seeking to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC secretly helped clients funnel into offshore accounts to evade tax.Ricardo Echegaray, head of the Argentinian tax authority, Afip, said in London on Monday that his officials had identified 4,040 undisclosed bank accounts held by Argentinian individuals and companies in Switzerland through HSBC\u2019s Geneva subsidiary.Afip has already begun legal proceedings in Buenos Aires against the individual HSBC account holders for criminal tax evasion, but Echegaray said the authority would also be seeking redress from HSBC\u2019s holding company for facilitating tax evasion through its Argentinian and Swiss branches.The latest revelations emerged on the day directors of HSBC were facing a grilling by a committee of British parliamentarians over the bank\u2019s role in facilitating tax evasion and alleged money laundering. A joint investigation by the Guardian, the BBC, Le Monde and other media outlets into a cache of documents obtained by a former employee of the bank found that it had turned a blind eye to illegal activity of wealthy clients and arms dealers. The Argentinians said they were applying for an international arrest warrant for a UK-domiciled Argentinian accountant, Miguel Abadi, who they allege funnelled $1.4bn offshore through a single London-based investment fund called Gems Advisors [see footnote].HSBC said in a statement it had been \u201ccooperating fully with Argentine regulators, including the tax authority and the judiciary, since allegations were first made public last year, and we will continue to do so\u201d.Abadi\u2019s spokesman said: \u201cMr Abadi and Gems Advisors have never had any access to any private Argentinian funds. The funds belong to investors who are banks, pension funds and insurance funds. He has offered full cooperation to the Argentinian authorities, and has not been made aware of any arrest warrant.\u201dAccording to Echegaray, HSBC\u2019s subsidiary in Argentina designed a platform to help clients hide funds in Swiss accounts. Outside lawyers and accountants set up \u201cghost\u201d networks of offshore companies, to make the transfers even more opaque. Afip has made formal requests for information on the networks behind the Swiss accounts to the authorities in Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, and Uruguay as well. Afip has raided the Argentinian branch of HSBC and seized records and files, but was told many documents relating to the Swiss accounts had been stored at a facility which suffered an arson attack last year. Around 15% of the 4,040 account holders had changed their tax returns and declared offshore accounts since the Afip investigation was made public, the authority said. The Argentinian authorities were given the data on the secret Swiss accounts by the French government, which had itself received them from whistleblower and former employee of HSBC in Switzerland Herv\u00e9 Falciani.The same leak led to investigations in Belgium and France. The French authorities have recovered \u00a3188m in taxes and fines from a list of 3,000 clients and Spain has recovered \u00a3220m, also from 3,000 clients.HMRC has faced criticism for prosecuting just one out of the 1,000 individuals. The permanent secretary for the revenue, Edward Troup, was also scheduled to appear before MPs on the public accounts committee on Monday.\u2022 This footnote was added on 12 January 2016 and updated on 16 February 2016. Representatives for Miguel Abadi have pointed out that the application by Afip for an arrest warrant was rejected by the Argentine judiciary. Further, the allegations against Abadi are denied and have not been substantiated. Mr Abadi has voluntarily provided information to the Argentine authorities. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Argentina", "Americas", "Banking", "Business", "World news", "HMRC"], "title": "Argentina seeks to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC helped offshore"},{"date": "2015-02-20T19:05:19Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Silently marching through Buenos Aires in the heavy rain, the mourners remembered a father, an ex-husband, a son, a colleague.With 400,000 people standing alongside them seeking justice for Alberto Nisman, it took the group of prosecutors, Nisman\u2019s former wife and his daughters, mother and relatives, almost two and a half hours to walk the 10 blocks that separate the Plaza de los dos Congresos from the Plaza de Mayo.Yet Argentinian people know that with every day that passes they are getting further from learning the truth about Nisman\u2019s death on 18 January.The late prosecutor had been carrying out the judicial investigation of Iran\u2019s involvement in the attack against the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association of Buenos Aires in 1994, in which 85 people died.During a 10-year investigation, Nisman gathered phone recordings that revealed an impunity deal between the Iranian and Argentinian governments in exchange for economic benefits. Nisman\u2019s report explained that in the midst of a reserves crisis, Iran would sell cheap oil and buy grains and weapons from Argentina.Furthermore, in some of the calls, the activist and politician Luis D\u2019El\u00eda was given orders from an alleged Iranian spy, Yussuf Khalil. And it was uncovered that this representative communicated such information with Iranians including Mohsen Rabbani, one of the accused.Nisman affirmed that these deals had been guaranteed by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner and the current Argentinian minister of foreign relations, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, among others.Four days after Nisman submitted his findings, and the day before he was scheduled to testify in front of Congress about his accusations, he was found dead in his apartment.When news of Nisman\u2019s death broke, an official statement announced that he had committed suicide. Media financed by the government told the same story. Additionally, the accounts of officials and the police seemed to contradict each other about facts such as the time they arrived and what they said; or it emerged that they simply forget to carry out judicial expertise, which is their daily job. That is why we can say that this death smells fishy.Now, over a month since Nisman died, the authorities have yet to determine whether his death was suicide or murder. Details of basic procedures, such as the autopsy confirming how the bullet entered his head and the toxicological result, have not been released. Yet doubts and scepticism increase each day as information trickles out.Two of Nisman\u2019s bodyguards have given contradictory explanations of the events that took place the night of Nisman\u2019s death. The judge, Manuel De Campos, was prevented from entering Nisman\u2019s apartment for 30 minutes, until the state secretary for public security arrived.The prosecutor Viviana Fein appeared on the scene 10 minutes later, and is said to have immediately lost control of the situation. The security cameras of the building did not work properly. Two witnesses have said that inside Nisman\u2019s apartment more than 50 people were at the scene, eating croissants and drinking mate (a typical Argentinian herbal drink). It was also alleged that any person could go through the door of the bathroom where Nisman\u2019s body was found, and that they saw traces of blood in the hallway.Even Fern\u00e1ndez feels that there is something strange going on, proclaiming \u201cthe suicide (I\u2019m convinced) was no suicide\u201d. But Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s theory damages her reputation as she could be blamed, at least, for being ineffective in controlling the services she has been managing for 12 years.The president is yet to express her condolences to Nisman\u2019s family, instead saying of the demonstrators: \u201cWe choose singing and happiness, and leave silence to them,\u201d \u2013 which speaks volumes.Slowly, a criminal case is turning into a political affair with no end in sight. And the investigation is falling to pieces, at the convenience of those who didn\u2019t want Nisman around.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "Iran"], "title": "Argentina, Iran and the strange death of Alberto Nisman | Gabriel Bracesco"},{"date": "2015-02-12T21:14:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A former Guant\u00e1namo detainee who obtained refugee status in Uruguay last December, made a surprising visit to neighbouring Argentina to ask the country to take in detainees.Abu Wa\u2019el Dhiab, also known as Jihad Ahmad Diyab, made an impassioned plea for Argentina and other South American countries to accept prisoners still held at Guant\u00e1namo Bay. Uruguay accepted six former Guant\u00e1namo inmates last December, Dhiab among them.\u201cI\u2019m never going to forget my companions [in Guant\u00e1namo],\u201d Dhiab said in an interview with the leftwing Argentinian website Barricada released on Thursday. \u201cThat\u2019s why I came here to fight.\u201dThroughout the 19-minute interview, Dhiab sported the orange jumpsuit he wore during his 12 years in US detention.\u201cThese clothes are part of me,\u201d Dhiab said in the video, speaking Arabic with a Spanish translator. \u201cBefore leaving they told me to change and put on a brown suit. I put it over this, because this is symbolic and very important to me. The Americans made us wear this to terrorise the whole world. Thank God that has flipped around now.\u201dThe former Guant\u00e1namo inmate refused to give details of torture at the base. \u201cI would need many hours to develop that subject, but speaking generally, we were tortured from the first moment we arrived until the last moment we left Guant\u00e1namo.\u201d Related: Guant\u00e1namo prisoners released to Uruguay: 'We are so happy to be here' \u201cThey thought we\u2019d go crazy in six months but we resisted years and years, thanks to God and thanks to our patience.\u201dThe 46-year-old Syrian claimed that there are prisoners in Guant\u00e1namo on never-ending hunger strikes who have been force-fed since 2005. \u201cWe hear Obama say that prisoners at Guant\u00e1namo have to be treated humanely, but every time he appears saying that on television we see that has a very negative repercussion,\u201d he said in the interview.Dhiab said he himself had been on hunger strike, starting in 2005. \u201cI started having health problems in 2004 and I would write on my food plate, I handed back my food, because I felt that food was not good for my health.\u201d\u201cBefore leaving Guant\u00e1namo I was in a place where I was force-fed. It was a tube through my nose that forced me to eat. There I spoke to a companion from Yemen who said: \u2018Don\u2019t forget us when you leave.\u2019\u201dDhiab said he will continue to fight for the release of those left behind. \u201cThe Argentinian government could accept prisoners from Guant\u00e1namo for humanitarian reasons. I am requesting the governments here to accept more people, more Guant\u00e1namo prisoners to save them, at least for humanitarian reasons.\u201d Related: America can't handle the truth \u2013 about Guant\u00e1namo, torture or a man now free from both | Cori Crider The Argentinian government declined to comment on Dhiab\u2019s presence here.Dhiab is still waiting for his wife and children to be brought to Uruguay to join him. He said he can\u2019t go back to Syria because of the situation there.Since 2002, 779 inmates have been held at the US military base in Cuba, according to Reprieve, the British human rights organisation that secured Dhiab\u2019s release to Uruguay two months ago. Only eight have been been convicted of crimes by a Guant\u00e1namo military commission. A total of 122 detainees are believed to remain under detention today.", "tags": ["Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "Argentina", "Uruguay", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Former Guant\u00e1namo prisoner urges Argentina to accept detainees"},{"date": "2015-03-26T19:57:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A federal court of appeals dismissed charges against the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Thursday, regarding an alleged conspiracy to shield Iranian officials\u2019 from prosecution over their alleged role in the deadly 1994 bombing of a Buenos Aires Jewish community centre.The charges had originally been made by prosecutor Alberto Nisman in January, four days before he was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head in his Buenos Aires apartment.On 14 January, Nisman had presented a 289-page writ in court that he said unveiled a conspiracy headed by Fern\u00e1ndez to clear five high-ranking Iranian suspects of charges that they had masterminded the 1994 bombing of the Amia centre, in which 85 people were killed. Related: Death of prosecutor leaves Argentina's Jewish community angry and distrustful In a 2-1 vote, appeals judges dismissed Nisman\u2019s accusation, but there is a strong likelihood that prosecutor Germ\u00e1n Moldes \u2013 who upheld Nisman\u2019s charges before the judges \u2013 may appeal the decision to a higher court.Fern\u00e1ndez and other officials accused by Nisman of being involved in the alleged conspiracy have all flatly denied the charges.Nisman\u2019s mysterious death triggered a political earthquake, which has rocked Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s government. Opinion polls have shown roughly 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 a hypothesis propelled by the prosecutor\u2019s family and seemingly confirmed by their independent forensic tests. One month after his death, 400,000 people participated in a \u201cmarch of silence\u201d demanding justice for Nisman. The court investigating his death has stuck to the hypothesis of suicide.As the special prosecutor in charge of the investigation into the Amia bombing, Nisman had obtained Interpol arrest warrants against five Iranian officials that he charged with masterminding the 1994 bombing.Nisman claimed as evidence to support the charges of conspiracy, an agreement signed by Iran and Argentina in 2013 to set up a binational \u201ctruth commission\u201d to investigate the Amia attack. Nisman claimed that the agreement effectively neutralised his investigation and the Interpol arrest warrants against the Iranian suspects.Although the Iran agreement was blocked last year by a court ruling that declared it \u201cunconstitutional\u201d, Nisman decided to accuse Fern\u00e1ndez in January of attempting to block the court case against the Iranian suspects with that agreement. Related: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner: is the fairytale ending for Argentina's new Evita? Fern\u00e1ndez needed to close the court case against the Iranians \u201cas part of a new geopolitical alignment on the current world stage\u201d, Nisman said in his extensive writ. N\u00e9stor Kirchner, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s husband, who preceded her as president from 2003-2007, had resolutely rebuffed approaches from Iran proposing generous trade concessions in return for Argentina dropping the charges against its five citizens. Following his unexpected death from heart failure in 2010, Fern\u00e1ndez began seeking closer relations with Russia, China, Venezuela and Iran.\u201cFern\u00e1ndez made Argentina drop off the map of the world with these new alliances,\u201d said legislator Elisa Carri\u00f3, a presidential hopeful for Argentina\u2019s upcoming October elections. Nisman\u2019s accusation seemed to offer an explanation for Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s surprising about turn regarding Iran after her husband\u2019s death.\u201cWe had standing orders from Kirchner not to negotiate under any terms with Iran regarding Amia,\u201d said Roberto Garc\u00eda Morit\u00e1n, who served as deputy foreign minister under both Kirchner and Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cAnd Iran was very insistent.\u201d\u201cThey made offers of up to $4bn in wheat and maize purchases,\u201d Kirchner\u2019s former foreign minister, Rafael Bielsa, said in an interview with the newspaper Perfil after the \u201ctruth commission\u201d with Nisman was signed.Fern\u00e1ndez was also hoping to increase trade with Iran, a traditional market for Argentinian grains before the 1994 bombing, which soured relations between the two countries, Nisman argued in his writ.\u2022 The headline on this article was amended on 27 March 2015 to better reflect the story. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Iran"], "title": "Appeals court dismisses Iran cover-up charges against Argentina president"},{"date": "2015-03-10T09:53:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "France is in mourning after three of its leading sportspeople were killed along with their film crew and pilots when two helicopters collided in Argentina during the filming of an endurance-style reality TV show.Camille Muffat, the swimmer who won three medals at the London Olympics in 2012, yachtswoman Florence Arthaud and the boxer Alexis Vastine were among 10 people killed in the crash in the western province of La Rioja near the Andes mountains. Related: Argentina helicopter crash: the sports stars who died The helicopters collided in mid-air just after takeoff while filming the adventure show Dropped for France\u2019s biggest private TV station, TF1. The programme, an adaptation of a Swedish format, took famous sporting figures blindfolded by helicopter and left them in the wilderness, having to use their skills to find their way back to civilisation.Eight French nationals were killed, including crew members, and two Argentinian pilots. There were no survivors.The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, said he was stupefied by the crash, which was an \u201cimmense sadness\u201d for France.The crash happened at about 5pm near the town of Villa Castelli, about 700 miles (1,100km) north of the capital, Buenos Aires. It was not immediately clear what caused the collision, although weather conditions were said to be good.Shooting of the TV show began in late February in Ushuaia, at the southern tip of South America in the glacial terrain of Patagonia. A cast and crew of about 80 people, mostly French, had been filming the series.\u201cThe whole of French sport is in mourning because we have lost three huge champions,\u201d the sports minister, Thierry Braillard, told RTL radio. He described how Arthaud was affectionately known as the \u201cfiancee of the Atlantic\u201d. She was one of the first women to carve a place in the world of sailing and in 1990 secured the record for the fastest solitary crossing of the North Atlantic.Muffat, 25, was regarded as one of France\u2019s most promising swimmers and won several medals at the 2012 London Olympics, including the 400 metres freestyle gold. She retired last summer. Vastine, 28, won bronze at the Beijing 2008 Olympics.Some of the country\u2019s top athletes offered their condolences and expressed their grief on Twitter. Muffat\u2019s fellow swimmer and London medallist, Yannick Agnel, tweeted: \u201cNot her\u201d.Sylvain Wiltord, the former Arsenal footballer and fellow cast member, tweeted: \u201cI am sad for my friends, I\u2019m shaking, I\u2019m horrified, I can\u2019t find the words, I don\u2019t want to say anything.\u201dJe suis triste pour mes amis , je tremble , je suis horrifi\u00e9 , je n'ai pas de mots , je ne veux rien dire #Tristesse #Pleurs #Jesuis\u00e0ParisNonce Paolini, head of TF1, said: \u201cWe\u2019re in shock and very sad.\u201dOne of the helicopters was piloted by a veteran of the 1982 Falklands war between Argentina and the UK. Juan Carlos Castillo was an experienced former pilot with the Argentinian air force who had flown more than 20 Antarctic missions, his wife, Cristina Alvarez, told the TN television news channel.\u201cI understand the crash happened at a very low altitude \u2013 under 100m,\u201d said Alvarez. \u201cIt\u2019s very difficult at that height to re-establish [control over] the machine and perform an auto-rotation emergency manoeuvre to land the helicopter without this happening.\u201d Castillo was a regular pilot for reality shows, the Dakar rally, as well as floods and other emergencies in La Rioja, she said.One of the helicopters was letting off \u201cexplosions that were out of place\u201d, according to David Ocampo, who was about 100m from where the helicopters landed. \u201cIt was like the earth moved when they fell,\u201d he told a local news channel.Ocampo said the helicopters seemed to be flying \u201cfive metres apart\u201d and it looked like \u201cthe first one stopped in the air and the other one swerved to try and avoid it but crashed into it\u201d.Ocampo ran to where the aircraft hit the ground. \u201cI ran to see if I could help anyone but all I could see was fire, it was all fire, fire,\u201d Ocampo said. \u201cI felt so bad I couldn\u2019t help anyone because of the fire.\u201dPolice arrived 20 minutes later and ambulances 10 minutes after that, Ocampo said.The bodies were removed from the crash site on Tuesday morning, La Rioja judge Virginia Bord\u00f3n said, and taken to a hospital at the nearby town of Villa Uni\u00f3n. They were then moved to the judicial morgue at the provincial capital city of La Rioja.Representatives from Airbus, which made the Eurocopter AS350 aircraft involved, and Turbomeca, which manufactured the motors, were expected to arrive at the scene, said La Rioja governor, Luis Bedder Herrera.It is the second time in two years that a reality show produced by the production company ALP for TF1 has been hit by tragedy.In April 2013, during filming for France\u2019s longest-running reality show, the desert island challenge Koh-Lanta, a 25-year-old contestant died after one of the on-screen challenges, having complained of heart pains. The show\u2019s doctor was later found dead in his hotel room near the set, leaving a suicide note in which he said his name had been sullied by insinuations that not enough was done for the contestant and he could no longer stand the media pressure.", "tags": ["France", "Argentina", "Air transport", "World news", "Americas", "Europe"], "title": "France mourns sports stars killed in Argentina helicopter crash"},{"date": "2015-03-09T16:04:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is seeking to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC secretly helped clients funnel into offshore accounts to evade tax.Ricardo Echegaray, head of the Argentinian tax authority, Afip, said in London on Monday that his officials had identified 4,040 undisclosed bank accounts held by Argentinian individuals and companies in Switzerland through HSBC\u2019s Geneva subsidiary.Afip has already begun legal proceedings in Buenos Aires against the individual HSBC account holders for criminal tax evasion, but Echegaray said the authority would also be seeking redress from HSBC\u2019s holding company for facilitating tax evasion through its Argentinian and Swiss branches.The latest revelations emerged on the day directors of HSBC were facing a grilling by a committee of British parliamentarians over the bank\u2019s role in facilitating tax evasion and alleged money laundering. A joint investigation by the Guardian, the BBC, Le Monde and other media outlets into a cache of documents obtained by a former employee of the bank found that it had turned a blind eye to illegal activity of wealthy clients and arms dealers. The Argentinians said they were applying for an international arrest warrant for a UK-domiciled Argentinian accountant, Miguel Abadi, who they allege funnelled $1.4bn offshore through a single London-based investment fund called Gems Advisors [see footnote].HSBC said in a statement it had been \u201ccooperating fully with Argentine regulators, including the tax authority and the judiciary, since allegations were first made public last year, and we will continue to do so\u201d.Abadi\u2019s spokesman said: \u201cMr Abadi and Gems Advisors have never had any access to any private Argentinian funds. The funds belong to investors who are banks, pension funds and insurance funds. He has offered full cooperation to the Argentinian authorities, and has not been made aware of any arrest warrant.\u201dAccording to Echegaray, HSBC\u2019s subsidiary in Argentina designed a platform to help clients hide funds in Swiss accounts. Outside lawyers and accountants set up \u201cghost\u201d networks of offshore companies, to make the transfers even more opaque. Afip has made formal requests for information on the networks behind the Swiss accounts to the authorities in Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, and Uruguay as well. Afip has raided the Argentinian branch of HSBC and seized records and files, but was told many documents relating to the Swiss accounts had been stored at a facility which suffered an arson attack last year. Around 15% of the 4,040 account holders had changed their tax returns and declared offshore accounts since the Afip investigation was made public, the authority said. The Argentinian authorities were given the data on the secret Swiss accounts by the French government, which had itself received them from whistleblower and former employee of HSBC in Switzerland Herv\u00e9 Falciani.The same leak led to investigations in Belgium and France. The French authorities have recovered \u00a3188m in taxes and fines from a list of 3,000 clients and Spain has recovered \u00a3220m, also from 3,000 clients.HMRC has faced criticism for prosecuting just one out of the 1,000 individuals. The permanent secretary for the revenue, Edward Troup, was also scheduled to appear before MPs on the public accounts committee on Monday.\u2022 This footnote was added on 12 January 2016 and updated on 16 February 2016. Representatives for Miguel Abadi have pointed out that the application by Afip for an arrest warrant was rejected by the Argentine judiciary. Further, the allegations against Abadi are denied and have not been substantiated. Mr Abadi has voluntarily provided information to the Argentine authorities. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Argentina", "Americas", "Banking", "Business", "World news", "HMRC"], "title": "Argentina seeks to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC helped offshore"},{"date": "2015-02-20T19:05:19Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Silently marching through Buenos Aires in the heavy rain, the mourners remembered a father, an ex-husband, a son, a colleague.With 400,000 people standing alongside them seeking justice for Alberto Nisman, it took the group of prosecutors, Nisman\u2019s former wife and his daughters, mother and relatives, almost two and a half hours to walk the 10 blocks that separate the Plaza de los dos Congresos from the Plaza de Mayo.Yet Argentinian people know that with every day that passes they are getting further from learning the truth about Nisman\u2019s death on 18 January.The late prosecutor had been carrying out the judicial investigation of Iran\u2019s involvement in the attack against the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association of Buenos Aires in 1994, in which 85 people died.During a 10-year investigation, Nisman gathered phone recordings that revealed an impunity deal between the Iranian and Argentinian governments in exchange for economic benefits. Nisman\u2019s report explained that in the midst of a reserves crisis, Iran would sell cheap oil and buy grains and weapons from Argentina.Furthermore, in some of the calls, the activist and politician Luis D\u2019El\u00eda was given orders from an alleged Iranian spy, Yussuf Khalil. And it was uncovered that this representative communicated such information with Iranians including Mohsen Rabbani, one of the accused.Nisman affirmed that these deals had been guaranteed by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner and the current Argentinian minister of foreign relations, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, among others.Four days after Nisman submitted his findings, and the day before he was scheduled to testify in front of Congress about his accusations, he was found dead in his apartment.When news of Nisman\u2019s death broke, an official statement announced that he had committed suicide. Media financed by the government told the same story. Additionally, the accounts of officials and the police seemed to contradict each other about facts such as the time they arrived and what they said; or it emerged that they simply forget to carry out judicial expertise, which is their daily job. That is why we can say that this death smells fishy.Now, over a month since Nisman died, the authorities have yet to determine whether his death was suicide or murder. Details of basic procedures, such as the autopsy confirming how the bullet entered his head and the toxicological result, have not been released. Yet doubts and scepticism increase each day as information trickles out.Two of Nisman\u2019s bodyguards have given contradictory explanations of the events that took place the night of Nisman\u2019s death. The judge, Manuel De Campos, was prevented from entering Nisman\u2019s apartment for 30 minutes, until the state secretary for public security arrived.The prosecutor Viviana Fein appeared on the scene 10 minutes later, and is said to have immediately lost control of the situation. The security cameras of the building did not work properly. Two witnesses have said that inside Nisman\u2019s apartment more than 50 people were at the scene, eating croissants and drinking mate (a typical Argentinian herbal drink). It was also alleged that any person could go through the door of the bathroom where Nisman\u2019s body was found, and that they saw traces of blood in the hallway.Even Fern\u00e1ndez feels that there is something strange going on, proclaiming \u201cthe suicide (I\u2019m convinced) was no suicide\u201d. But Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s theory damages her reputation as she could be blamed, at least, for being ineffective in controlling the services she has been managing for 12 years.The president is yet to express her condolences to Nisman\u2019s family, instead saying of the demonstrators: \u201cWe choose singing and happiness, and leave silence to them,\u201d \u2013 which speaks volumes.Slowly, a criminal case is turning into a political affair with no end in sight. And the investigation is falling to pieces, at the convenience of those who didn\u2019t want Nisman around.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "Iran"], "title": "Argentina, Iran and the strange death of Alberto Nisman | Gabriel Bracesco"},{"date": "2015-02-12T21:14:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A former Guant\u00e1namo detainee who obtained refugee status in Uruguay last December, made a surprising visit to neighbouring Argentina to ask the country to take in detainees.Abu Wa\u2019el Dhiab, also known as Jihad Ahmad Diyab, made an impassioned plea for Argentina and other South American countries to accept prisoners still held at Guant\u00e1namo Bay. Uruguay accepted six former Guant\u00e1namo inmates last December, Dhiab among them.\u201cI\u2019m never going to forget my companions [in Guant\u00e1namo],\u201d Dhiab said in an interview with the leftwing Argentinian website Barricada released on Thursday. \u201cThat\u2019s why I came here to fight.\u201dThroughout the 19-minute interview, Dhiab sported the orange jumpsuit he wore during his 12 years in US detention.\u201cThese clothes are part of me,\u201d Dhiab said in the video, speaking Arabic with a Spanish translator. \u201cBefore leaving they told me to change and put on a brown suit. I put it over this, because this is symbolic and very important to me. The Americans made us wear this to terrorise the whole world. Thank God that has flipped around now.\u201dThe former Guant\u00e1namo inmate refused to give details of torture at the base. \u201cI would need many hours to develop that subject, but speaking generally, we were tortured from the first moment we arrived until the last moment we left Guant\u00e1namo.\u201d Related: Guant\u00e1namo prisoners released to Uruguay: 'We are so happy to be here' \u201cThey thought we\u2019d go crazy in six months but we resisted years and years, thanks to God and thanks to our patience.\u201dThe 46-year-old Syrian claimed that there are prisoners in Guant\u00e1namo on never-ending hunger strikes who have been force-fed since 2005. \u201cWe hear Obama say that prisoners at Guant\u00e1namo have to be treated humanely, but every time he appears saying that on television we see that has a very negative repercussion,\u201d he said in the interview.Dhiab said he himself had been on hunger strike, starting in 2005. \u201cI started having health problems in 2004 and I would write on my food plate, I handed back my food, because I felt that food was not good for my health.\u201d\u201cBefore leaving Guant\u00e1namo I was in a place where I was force-fed. It was a tube through my nose that forced me to eat. There I spoke to a companion from Yemen who said: \u2018Don\u2019t forget us when you leave.\u2019\u201dDhiab said he will continue to fight for the release of those left behind. \u201cThe Argentinian government could accept prisoners from Guant\u00e1namo for humanitarian reasons. I am requesting the governments here to accept more people, more Guant\u00e1namo prisoners to save them, at least for humanitarian reasons.\u201d Related: America can't handle the truth \u2013 about Guant\u00e1namo, torture or a man now free from both | Cori Crider The Argentinian government declined to comment on Dhiab\u2019s presence here.Dhiab is still waiting for his wife and children to be brought to Uruguay to join him. He said he can\u2019t go back to Syria because of the situation there.Since 2002, 779 inmates have been held at the US military base in Cuba, according to Reprieve, the British human rights organisation that secured Dhiab\u2019s release to Uruguay two months ago. Only eight have been been convicted of crimes by a Guant\u00e1namo military commission. A total of 122 detainees are believed to remain under detention today.", "tags": ["Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "Argentina", "Uruguay", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Former Guant\u00e1namo prisoner urges Argentina to accept detainees"},{"date": "2015-02-01T18:01:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A British mountaineer has died attempting to reach the peak of the Aconcagua mountain in Argentina\u2019s Andes.Roger Cookson, 58, was taken ill just 1,640ft (500m) from the peak of Aconcagua, the highest mountain outside of Asia at 22,837ft.On Sunday night his body was still on the mountain, at the Nido de Condores camp at 18,874ft. \u201cWeather conditions are not good enough to bring his body down with the helicopter,\u201d said Jos\u00e9 Casas, who runs the Lanko mountain-climbing company in the province of Mendoza, which helped organise the expedition.Cookson is reported to have died on Saturday at 10am local time, of respiratory failure. \u201cHe had a lot of mountain-climbing experience and his medical records showed he was in perfect condition,\u201d said Casas.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Mountaineering", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "British mountaineer dies near peak of Aconcagua in Argentina"},{"date": "2015-03-26T19:57:25Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A federal court of appeals dismissed charges against the Argentinian president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, on Thursday, regarding an alleged conspiracy to shield Iranian officials\u2019 from prosecution over their alleged role in the deadly 1994 bombing of a Buenos Aires Jewish community centre.The charges had originally been made by prosecutor Alberto Nisman in January, four days before he was found dead with a gunshot wound to the head in his Buenos Aires apartment.On 14 January, Nisman had presented a 289-page writ in court that he said unveiled a conspiracy headed by Fern\u00e1ndez to clear five high-ranking Iranian suspects of charges that they had masterminded the 1994 bombing of the Amia centre, in which 85 people were killed. Related: Death of prosecutor leaves Argentina's Jewish community angry and distrustful In a 2-1 vote, appeals judges dismissed Nisman\u2019s accusation, but there is a strong likelihood that prosecutor Germ\u00e1n Moldes \u2013 who upheld Nisman\u2019s charges before the judges \u2013 may appeal the decision to a higher court.Fern\u00e1ndez and other officials accused by Nisman of being involved in the alleged conspiracy have all flatly denied the charges.Nisman\u2019s mysterious death triggered a political earthquake, which has rocked Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s government. Opinion polls have shown roughly 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 a hypothesis propelled by the prosecutor\u2019s family and seemingly confirmed by their independent forensic tests. One month after his death, 400,000 people participated in a \u201cmarch of silence\u201d demanding justice for Nisman. The court investigating his death has stuck to the hypothesis of suicide.As the special prosecutor in charge of the investigation into the Amia bombing, Nisman had obtained Interpol arrest warrants against five Iranian officials that he charged with masterminding the 1994 bombing.Nisman claimed as evidence to support the charges of conspiracy, an agreement signed by Iran and Argentina in 2013 to set up a binational \u201ctruth commission\u201d to investigate the Amia attack. Nisman claimed that the agreement effectively neutralised his investigation and the Interpol arrest warrants against the Iranian suspects.Although the Iran agreement was blocked last year by a court ruling that declared it \u201cunconstitutional\u201d, Nisman decided to accuse Fern\u00e1ndez in January of attempting to block the court case against the Iranian suspects with that agreement. Related: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner: is the fairytale ending for Argentina's new Evita? Fern\u00e1ndez needed to close the court case against the Iranians \u201cas part of a new geopolitical alignment on the current world stage\u201d, Nisman said in his extensive writ. N\u00e9stor Kirchner, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s husband, who preceded her as president from 2003-2007, had resolutely rebuffed approaches from Iran proposing generous trade concessions in return for Argentina dropping the charges against its five citizens. Following his unexpected death from heart failure in 2010, Fern\u00e1ndez began seeking closer relations with Russia, China, Venezuela and Iran.\u201cFern\u00e1ndez made Argentina drop off the map of the world with these new alliances,\u201d said legislator Elisa Carri\u00f3, a presidential hopeful for Argentina\u2019s upcoming October elections. Nisman\u2019s accusation seemed to offer an explanation for Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s surprising about turn regarding Iran after her husband\u2019s death.\u201cWe had standing orders from Kirchner not to negotiate under any terms with Iran regarding Amia,\u201d said Roberto Garc\u00eda Morit\u00e1n, who served as deputy foreign minister under both Kirchner and Fern\u00e1ndez. \u201cAnd Iran was very insistent.\u201d\u201cThey made offers of up to $4bn in wheat and maize purchases,\u201d Kirchner\u2019s former foreign minister, Rafael Bielsa, said in an interview with the newspaper Perfil after the \u201ctruth commission\u201d with Nisman was signed.Fern\u00e1ndez was also hoping to increase trade with Iran, a traditional market for Argentinian grains before the 1994 bombing, which soured relations between the two countries, Nisman argued in his writ.\u2022 The headline on this article was amended on 27 March 2015 to better reflect the story. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Iran"], "title": "Appeals court dismisses Iran cover-up charges against Argentina president"},{"date": "2015-03-10T09:53:20Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "France is in mourning after three of its leading sportspeople were killed along with their film crew and pilots when two helicopters collided in Argentina during the filming of an endurance-style reality TV show.Camille Muffat, the swimmer who won three medals at the London Olympics in 2012, yachtswoman Florence Arthaud and the boxer Alexis Vastine were among 10 people killed in the crash in the western province of La Rioja near the Andes mountains. Related: Argentina helicopter crash: the sports stars who died The helicopters collided in mid-air just after takeoff while filming the adventure show Dropped for France\u2019s biggest private TV station, TF1. The programme, an adaptation of a Swedish format, took famous sporting figures blindfolded by helicopter and left them in the wilderness, having to use their skills to find their way back to civilisation.Eight French nationals were killed, including crew members, and two Argentinian pilots. There were no survivors.The French president, Fran\u00e7ois Hollande, said he was stupefied by the crash, which was an \u201cimmense sadness\u201d for France.The crash happened at about 5pm near the town of Villa Castelli, about 700 miles (1,100km) north of the capital, Buenos Aires. It was not immediately clear what caused the collision, although weather conditions were said to be good.Shooting of the TV show began in late February in Ushuaia, at the southern tip of South America in the glacial terrain of Patagonia. A cast and crew of about 80 people, mostly French, had been filming the series.\u201cThe whole of French sport is in mourning because we have lost three huge champions,\u201d the sports minister, Thierry Braillard, told RTL radio. He described how Arthaud was affectionately known as the \u201cfiancee of the Atlantic\u201d. She was one of the first women to carve a place in the world of sailing and in 1990 secured the record for the fastest solitary crossing of the North Atlantic.Muffat, 25, was regarded as one of France\u2019s most promising swimmers and won several medals at the 2012 London Olympics, including the 400 metres freestyle gold. She retired last summer. Vastine, 28, won bronze at the Beijing 2008 Olympics.Some of the country\u2019s top athletes offered their condolences and expressed their grief on Twitter. Muffat\u2019s fellow swimmer and London medallist, Yannick Agnel, tweeted: \u201cNot her\u201d.Sylvain Wiltord, the former Arsenal footballer and fellow cast member, tweeted: \u201cI am sad for my friends, I\u2019m shaking, I\u2019m horrified, I can\u2019t find the words, I don\u2019t want to say anything.\u201dJe suis triste pour mes amis , je tremble , je suis horrifi\u00e9 , je n'ai pas de mots , je ne veux rien dire #Tristesse #Pleurs #Jesuis\u00e0ParisNonce Paolini, head of TF1, said: \u201cWe\u2019re in shock and very sad.\u201dOne of the helicopters was piloted by a veteran of the 1982 Falklands war between Argentina and the UK. Juan Carlos Castillo was an experienced former pilot with the Argentinian air force who had flown more than 20 Antarctic missions, his wife, Cristina Alvarez, told the TN television news channel.\u201cI understand the crash happened at a very low altitude \u2013 under 100m,\u201d said Alvarez. \u201cIt\u2019s very difficult at that height to re-establish [control over] the machine and perform an auto-rotation emergency manoeuvre to land the helicopter without this happening.\u201d Castillo was a regular pilot for reality shows, the Dakar rally, as well as floods and other emergencies in La Rioja, she said.One of the helicopters was letting off \u201cexplosions that were out of place\u201d, according to David Ocampo, who was about 100m from where the helicopters landed. \u201cIt was like the earth moved when they fell,\u201d he told a local news channel.Ocampo said the helicopters seemed to be flying \u201cfive metres apart\u201d and it looked like \u201cthe first one stopped in the air and the other one swerved to try and avoid it but crashed into it\u201d.Ocampo ran to where the aircraft hit the ground. \u201cI ran to see if I could help anyone but all I could see was fire, it was all fire, fire,\u201d Ocampo said. \u201cI felt so bad I couldn\u2019t help anyone because of the fire.\u201dPolice arrived 20 minutes later and ambulances 10 minutes after that, Ocampo said.The bodies were removed from the crash site on Tuesday morning, La Rioja judge Virginia Bord\u00f3n said, and taken to a hospital at the nearby town of Villa Uni\u00f3n. They were then moved to the judicial morgue at the provincial capital city of La Rioja.Representatives from Airbus, which made the Eurocopter AS350 aircraft involved, and Turbomeca, which manufactured the motors, were expected to arrive at the scene, said La Rioja governor, Luis Bedder Herrera.It is the second time in two years that a reality show produced by the production company ALP for TF1 has been hit by tragedy.In April 2013, during filming for France\u2019s longest-running reality show, the desert island challenge Koh-Lanta, a 25-year-old contestant died after one of the on-screen challenges, having complained of heart pains. The show\u2019s doctor was later found dead in his hotel room near the set, leaving a suicide note in which he said his name had been sullied by insinuations that not enough was done for the contestant and he could no longer stand the media pressure.", "tags": ["France", "Argentina", "Air transport", "World news", "Americas", "Europe"], "title": "France mourns sports stars killed in Argentina helicopter crash"},{"date": "2015-03-09T16:04:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina is seeking to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC secretly helped clients funnel into offshore accounts to evade tax.Ricardo Echegaray, head of the Argentinian tax authority, Afip, said in London on Monday that his officials had identified 4,040 undisclosed bank accounts held by Argentinian individuals and companies in Switzerland through HSBC\u2019s Geneva subsidiary.Afip has already begun legal proceedings in Buenos Aires against the individual HSBC account holders for criminal tax evasion, but Echegaray said the authority would also be seeking redress from HSBC\u2019s holding company for facilitating tax evasion through its Argentinian and Swiss branches.The latest revelations emerged on the day directors of HSBC were facing a grilling by a committee of British parliamentarians over the bank\u2019s role in facilitating tax evasion and alleged money laundering. A joint investigation by the Guardian, the BBC, Le Monde and other media outlets into a cache of documents obtained by a former employee of the bank found that it had turned a blind eye to illegal activity of wealthy clients and arms dealers. The Argentinians said they were applying for an international arrest warrant for a UK-domiciled Argentinian accountant, Miguel Abadi, who they allege funnelled $1.4bn offshore through a single London-based investment fund called Gems Advisors [see footnote].HSBC said in a statement it had been \u201ccooperating fully with Argentine regulators, including the tax authority and the judiciary, since allegations were first made public last year, and we will continue to do so\u201d.Abadi\u2019s spokesman said: \u201cMr Abadi and Gems Advisors have never had any access to any private Argentinian funds. The funds belong to investors who are banks, pension funds and insurance funds. He has offered full cooperation to the Argentinian authorities, and has not been made aware of any arrest warrant.\u201dAccording to Echegaray, HSBC\u2019s subsidiary in Argentina designed a platform to help clients hide funds in Swiss accounts. Outside lawyers and accountants set up \u201cghost\u201d networks of offshore companies, to make the transfers even more opaque. Afip has made formal requests for information on the networks behind the Swiss accounts to the authorities in Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands, and Uruguay as well. Afip has raided the Argentinian branch of HSBC and seized records and files, but was told many documents relating to the Swiss accounts had been stored at a facility which suffered an arson attack last year. Around 15% of the 4,040 account holders had changed their tax returns and declared offshore accounts since the Afip investigation was made public, the authority said. The Argentinian authorities were given the data on the secret Swiss accounts by the French government, which had itself received them from whistleblower and former employee of HSBC in Switzerland Herv\u00e9 Falciani.The same leak led to investigations in Belgium and France. The French authorities have recovered \u00a3188m in taxes and fines from a list of 3,000 clients and Spain has recovered \u00a3220m, also from 3,000 clients.HMRC has faced criticism for prosecuting just one out of the 1,000 individuals. The permanent secretary for the revenue, Edward Troup, was also scheduled to appear before MPs on the public accounts committee on Monday.\u2022 This footnote was added on 12 January 2016 and updated on 16 February 2016. Representatives for Miguel Abadi have pointed out that the application by Afip for an arrest warrant was rejected by the Argentine judiciary. Further, the allegations against Abadi are denied and have not been substantiated. Mr Abadi has voluntarily provided information to the Argentine authorities. ", "tags": ["HSBC", "Argentina", "Americas", "Banking", "Business", "World news", "HMRC"], "title": "Argentina seeks to repatriate $3.5bn it claims HSBC helped offshore"},{"date": "2015-02-20T19:05:19Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Silently marching through Buenos Aires in the heavy rain, the mourners remembered a father, an ex-husband, a son, a colleague.With 400,000 people standing alongside them seeking justice for Alberto Nisman, it took the group of prosecutors, Nisman\u2019s former wife and his daughters, mother and relatives, almost two and a half hours to walk the 10 blocks that separate the Plaza de los dos Congresos from the Plaza de Mayo.Yet Argentinian people know that with every day that passes they are getting further from learning the truth about Nisman\u2019s death on 18 January.The late prosecutor had been carrying out the judicial investigation of Iran\u2019s involvement in the attack against the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association of Buenos Aires in 1994, in which 85 people died.During a 10-year investigation, Nisman gathered phone recordings that revealed an impunity deal between the Iranian and Argentinian governments in exchange for economic benefits. Nisman\u2019s report explained that in the midst of a reserves crisis, Iran would sell cheap oil and buy grains and weapons from Argentina.Furthermore, in some of the calls, the activist and politician Luis D\u2019El\u00eda was given orders from an alleged Iranian spy, Yussuf Khalil. And it was uncovered that this representative communicated such information with Iranians including Mohsen Rabbani, one of the accused.Nisman affirmed that these deals had been guaranteed by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner and the current Argentinian minister of foreign relations, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, among others.Four days after Nisman submitted his findings, and the day before he was scheduled to testify in front of Congress about his accusations, he was found dead in his apartment.When news of Nisman\u2019s death broke, an official statement announced that he had committed suicide. Media financed by the government told the same story. Additionally, the accounts of officials and the police seemed to contradict each other about facts such as the time they arrived and what they said; or it emerged that they simply forget to carry out judicial expertise, which is their daily job. That is why we can say that this death smells fishy.Now, over a month since Nisman died, the authorities have yet to determine whether his death was suicide or murder. Details of basic procedures, such as the autopsy confirming how the bullet entered his head and the toxicological result, have not been released. Yet doubts and scepticism increase each day as information trickles out.Two of Nisman\u2019s bodyguards have given contradictory explanations of the events that took place the night of Nisman\u2019s death. The judge, Manuel De Campos, was prevented from entering Nisman\u2019s apartment for 30 minutes, until the state secretary for public security arrived.The prosecutor Viviana Fein appeared on the scene 10 minutes later, and is said to have immediately lost control of the situation. The security cameras of the building did not work properly. Two witnesses have said that inside Nisman\u2019s apartment more than 50 people were at the scene, eating croissants and drinking mate (a typical Argentinian herbal drink). It was also alleged that any person could go through the door of the bathroom where Nisman\u2019s body was found, and that they saw traces of blood in the hallway.Even Fern\u00e1ndez feels that there is something strange going on, proclaiming \u201cthe suicide (I\u2019m convinced) was no suicide\u201d. But Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s theory damages her reputation as she could be blamed, at least, for being ineffective in controlling the services she has been managing for 12 years.The president is yet to express her condolences to Nisman\u2019s family, instead saying of the demonstrators: \u201cWe choose singing and happiness, and leave silence to them,\u201d \u2013 which speaks volumes.Slowly, a criminal case is turning into a political affair with no end in sight. And the investigation is falling to pieces, at the convenience of those who didn\u2019t want Nisman around.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "Iran"], "title": "Argentina, Iran and the strange death of Alberto Nisman | Gabriel Bracesco"},{"date": "2015-02-12T21:14:37Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A former Guant\u00e1namo detainee who obtained refugee status in Uruguay last December, made a surprising visit to neighbouring Argentina to ask the country to take in detainees.Abu Wa\u2019el Dhiab, also known as Jihad Ahmad Diyab, made an impassioned plea for Argentina and other South American countries to accept prisoners still held at Guant\u00e1namo Bay. Uruguay accepted six former Guant\u00e1namo inmates last December, Dhiab among them.\u201cI\u2019m never going to forget my companions [in Guant\u00e1namo],\u201d Dhiab said in an interview with the leftwing Argentinian website Barricada released on Thursday. \u201cThat\u2019s why I came here to fight.\u201dThroughout the 19-minute interview, Dhiab sported the orange jumpsuit he wore during his 12 years in US detention.\u201cThese clothes are part of me,\u201d Dhiab said in the video, speaking Arabic with a Spanish translator. \u201cBefore leaving they told me to change and put on a brown suit. I put it over this, because this is symbolic and very important to me. The Americans made us wear this to terrorise the whole world. Thank God that has flipped around now.\u201dThe former Guant\u00e1namo inmate refused to give details of torture at the base. \u201cI would need many hours to develop that subject, but speaking generally, we were tortured from the first moment we arrived until the last moment we left Guant\u00e1namo.\u201d Related: Guant\u00e1namo prisoners released to Uruguay: 'We are so happy to be here' \u201cThey thought we\u2019d go crazy in six months but we resisted years and years, thanks to God and thanks to our patience.\u201dThe 46-year-old Syrian claimed that there are prisoners in Guant\u00e1namo on never-ending hunger strikes who have been force-fed since 2005. \u201cWe hear Obama say that prisoners at Guant\u00e1namo have to be treated humanely, but every time he appears saying that on television we see that has a very negative repercussion,\u201d he said in the interview.Dhiab said he himself had been on hunger strike, starting in 2005. \u201cI started having health problems in 2004 and I would write on my food plate, I handed back my food, because I felt that food was not good for my health.\u201d\u201cBefore leaving Guant\u00e1namo I was in a place where I was force-fed. It was a tube through my nose that forced me to eat. There I spoke to a companion from Yemen who said: \u2018Don\u2019t forget us when you leave.\u2019\u201dDhiab said he will continue to fight for the release of those left behind. \u201cThe Argentinian government could accept prisoners from Guant\u00e1namo for humanitarian reasons. I am requesting the governments here to accept more people, more Guant\u00e1namo prisoners to save them, at least for humanitarian reasons.\u201d Related: America can't handle the truth \u2013 about Guant\u00e1namo, torture or a man now free from both | Cori Crider The Argentinian government declined to comment on Dhiab\u2019s presence here.Dhiab is still waiting for his wife and children to be brought to Uruguay to join him. He said he can\u2019t go back to Syria because of the situation there.Since 2002, 779 inmates have been held at the US military base in Cuba, according to Reprieve, the British human rights organisation that secured Dhiab\u2019s release to Uruguay two months ago. Only eight have been been convicted of crimes by a Guant\u00e1namo military commission. A total of 122 detainees are believed to remain under detention today.", "tags": ["Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "Argentina", "Uruguay", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Former Guant\u00e1namo prisoner urges Argentina to accept detainees"},{"date": "2015-02-01T18:01:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "A British mountaineer has died attempting to reach the peak of the Aconcagua mountain in Argentina\u2019s Andes.Roger Cookson, 58, was taken ill just 1,640ft (500m) from the peak of Aconcagua, the highest mountain outside of Asia at 22,837ft.On Sunday night his body was still on the mountain, at the Nido de Condores camp at 18,874ft. \u201cWeather conditions are not good enough to bring his body down with the helicopter,\u201d said Jos\u00e9 Casas, who runs the Lanko mountain-climbing company in the province of Mendoza, which helped organise the expedition.Cookson is reported to have died on Saturday at 10am local time, of respiratory failure. \u201cHe had a lot of mountain-climbing experience and his medical records showed he was in perfect condition,\u201d said Casas.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Mountaineering", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "British mountaineer dies near peak of Aconcagua in Argentina"},{"date": "2015-01-23T21:19:43Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Jewish community leaders in Argentina have announced that none of their representatives will attend an official Holocaust Memorial Day ceremony next week, amid growing anger over the mysterious death of a state prosecutor who was investigating the alleged coverup of the 1994 bombing of a Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires.The body of Alberto Nisman was found late on Sunday next to a .22-calibre handgun and a bullet casing on the floor of the bathroom of his flat in Buenos Aires. Nisman had been due to testify to Congress on his allegations that President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner had conspired to protect Iranian officials implicated in the attack on the Argentinian Jewish Mutual Association, Amia, in which 85 people died. On Friday, the Amia, the Daia \u2013 the country\u2019s affiliate to the World Jewish Congress \u2013 the Holocaust Museum of Buenos Aires and other groups announced their refusal to send any representatives to the ceremony at the country\u2019s foreign ministry on Tuesday. \u201cThe charges are so gruesome and extend to so many areas of government that it would be an insult to the memory of our victims of the Shoah to attend,\u201d said Waldo Wolff, vicepresident of the DAIA, the son of a Jewish survivor of Nazi Germany who soughtrefuge in Argentina after Germany\u2019s Kristallnacht anti-Jewish pogroms of1938.Anger was focused on the alleged role of the foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, who Nisman alleged had participated in secret talks with Iran \u2013 and who is also Jewish.\u201cI am horrified by the charge that someone who is both an Argentinian and a Jew is suspected of plotting to cast darkness on an investigation undertaken in his own country to solve the Amia bombing,\u201d said Diana Wang, head of the Children of the Shoah association. Wang arrived in Argentina in 1947 at barely two years of age with her parents, who were Holocaust survivors.  Related: Argentinian government points to rogue intelligence agents in Nisman death As prosecutor in the Amia investigation, Nisman had attempted to obtain Interpol arrest warrants for the five Iranian officials to stand trial in Argentina. In the charges he presented in court only four days before his death, Nisman claimed that Fern\u00e1ndez and Timerman plotted to lift those warrants in exchange for Iranian oil.Government officials have rejected the allegations, and suggested that Nisman was killed by rogue intelligence agents. The decision not to attend the celebration of the 70th anniversary of theliberation of Auschwitz concentration camp is a sharp blow to Argentina\u2019sgovernment, which has dedicated many years of patient effort to clear thiscountry\u2019s reputation as a post-war safe haven for some of the most importantNazi criminals, such as Adolf Eichmann, who organised the transport ofmillions of Jews to the concentration camps, and the Auschwitz doctor JosefMengele.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Holocaust"], "title": "Jewish groups boycott Holocaust event over Argentina prosecutor's death"},{"date": "2015-06-18T18:31:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "There is a beguiling argument that life for Greece outside the eurozone wouldn\u2019t be so bad. Sure, the immediate economic pain would be severe, but a new drachma, coupled with debt default, might deliver a whoosh of relief in time. Isn\u2019t history full of countries that have devalued their way out of crisis by generating an export boom? Didn\u2019t Argentina recover that way when it abandoned its currency peg to the US dollar in 2002?Taken to its logical extreme, this argument says the real threat to the survival of the eurozone is that Greece leaves and prospers. Come the next crisis, other strugglers might opt to quit, dumping their debts as they go.If this idea sounds far-fetched, Jim Leaviss on M&G\u2019s bond team would agree. He makes an excellent case that Greece isn\u2019t Argentina, not by any stretch.Sure, there are parallels between the causes and symptoms of distress \u2013 an overvalued currency, unsustainable debts, shoddy tax collection, dodgy official statistics and high unemployment. But an Argentinian-style cure \u2013 massive devaluation and conversion of bank accounts \u2013 is unlikely to produce the same recovery in Greece, thinks Leaviss.Argentina was lucky with its timing of its devaluation, he argues. Global trade boomed after 2002 as the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates after the 9/11 terrorism attacks and China was welcomed into the world economy. A newly-competitive Argentina increased exports by 120% between 2002 and 2006.It\u2019s hard to imagine Greece copying that performance. Tourism is already 18% of the economy, so probably can\u2019t double as it almost did in Argentina. The poorer quality of the land makes an agricultural boom harder. Greece\u2019s biggest export (surprisingly) is refined petroleum, which is priced in dollars. And its biggest export market is Germany \u2013 \u201cpossibly problematic post a debt default\u201d, notes Leaviss dryly.His common-sense conclusion is that countries that thrived after devaluation (Canada and Sweden are other examples) had trading partners that were growing strongly. \u201cGreece does not have that luxury, nor an economy that can respond quickly to increased export competitiveness,\u201d concludes Leaviss. Note, too, that the Argentinian revival looks less impressive these days with real growth at just 0.5%. They\u2019re all good points, even if life inside the eurozone for Greece is also hellish.Here\u2019s an investment oddity: a company with a mammoth dividend yield of 9.5% and an intention, which most of its City followers think credible, to keep annual payments to shareholders rising in line with inflation, at a minimum.What\u2019s the catch with Infinis Energy? There are two. First, half its business is onshore wind farms and new energy secretary Amber Rudd supposedly hates the things; yesterday she said she would honour the Conservatives\u2019 pledge to kill current subsidies for onshore wind a year early. Second, the dominant shareholder is Guy Hands\u2019 Terra Firma, which has been saying for six months it might sell its 68.6% stake.These are serious worries \u2013 thus the one-quarter decline in Infinis\u2019s share price since flotation in 2013.But perhaps Rudd\u2019s war on onshore subsidies is not as damaging for Infinis as it seems. She plans to grant a \u201cgrace period\u201d to allow projects with planning permission to proceed. This is not a token concession either. She\u2019s talking \u201cup to 5.2GW\u201d of new on-shore wind capacity, which could mean another 3,000 turbines in the UK, on top of the 5,000 already turning (usually). Infinis\u2019s two big new projects in Scotland, adding 109MW to the company\u2019s current 274MW, should still be OK.Admittedly, there\u2019s a question mark over what Infinis does thereafter. A new contracts for difference subsidy regime arrives in 2017. Will onshore wind get a fair crack? In theory it should: onshore wind is cheaper than offshore variety, letalone grand projects like the Swansea Bay tidal lagoon. Plus, the UK\u2019s renewable energy targets will almost certainly rise after the Paris climate summit in September. On the other hand, it\u2019s hard to know what the government\u2019s plan to give local communities \u201cthe final say\u201d on windfarm applications will mean in practice.The other half of Infinis is unaffected \u2013 it extracts gas from landfill sites to generate electricity. There is little growth in that business since nobody is building new landfill sites, but the cashflows look extremely solid. They are the main source of comfort on the dividend.Cautious investors, understandably, would steer clear of a stock where the main shareholder is eyeing an exit. But, if you think Rudd has thrown only a medium-sized spanner in the turbines, Infinis is an intriguing stock at that dividend yield.Fitbit makes profits \u2013 net income was $132m last year \u2013 so it came to market in better shape than some Wall Street technology flotations. Even so, a 50% surge in the share price on day one, carrying the company\u2019s market value to $6bn, is hard to fathom.The company leads the market for fitness trackers, which probably aren\u2019t a fad. Fitbit is even able to shift its top-of-the-range versions at $250 a pop. But competitors are arriving in droves to this \u201cwearables\u201d market, from Apple to Google to Chinese tech firms. It\u2019s hard to believe profit margins will continue to be so good forever. Fitbit is now worth about six times this year\u2019s expected revenues. Too much, too soon.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Currencies", "Economics", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European monetary union", "World news", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Financial sector"], "title": "Would an Argentina-style cure work for Greece? Probably not"},{"date": "2015-06-18T18:31:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "There is a beguiling argument that life for Greece outside the eurozone wouldn\u2019t be so bad. Sure, the immediate economic pain would be severe, but a new drachma, coupled with debt default, might deliver a whoosh of relief in time. Isn\u2019t history full of countries that have devalued their way out of crisis by generating an export boom? Didn\u2019t Argentina recover that way when it abandoned its currency peg to the US dollar in 2002?Taken to its logical extreme, this argument says the real threat to the survival of the eurozone is that Greece leaves and prospers. Come the next crisis, other strugglers might opt to quit, dumping their debts as they go.If this idea sounds far-fetched, Jim Leaviss on M&G\u2019s bond team would agree. He makes an excellent case that Greece isn\u2019t Argentina, not by any stretch.Sure, there are parallels between the causes and symptoms of distress \u2013 an overvalued currency, unsustainable debts, shoddy tax collection, dodgy official statistics and high unemployment. But an Argentinian-style cure \u2013 massive devaluation and conversion of bank accounts \u2013 is unlikely to produce the same recovery in Greece, thinks Leaviss.Argentina was lucky with its timing of its devaluation, he argues. Global trade boomed after 2002 as the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates after the 9/11 terrorism attacks and China was welcomed into the world economy. A newly-competitive Argentina increased exports by 120% between 2002 and 2006.It\u2019s hard to imagine Greece copying that performance. Tourism is already 18% of the economy, so probably can\u2019t double as it almost did in Argentina. The poorer quality of the land makes an agricultural boom harder. Greece\u2019s biggest export (surprisingly) is refined petroleum, which is priced in dollars. And its biggest export market is Germany \u2013 \u201cpossibly problematic post a debt default\u201d, notes Leaviss dryly.His common-sense conclusion is that countries that thrived after devaluation (Canada and Sweden are other examples) had trading partners that were growing strongly. \u201cGreece does not have that luxury, nor an economy that can respond quickly to increased export competitiveness,\u201d concludes Leaviss. Note, too, that the Argentinian revival looks less impressive these days with real growth at just 0.5%. They\u2019re all good points, even if life inside the eurozone for Greece is also hellish.Here\u2019s an investment oddity: a company with a mammoth dividend yield of 9.5% and an intention, which most of its City followers think credible, to keep annual payments to shareholders rising in line with inflation, at a minimum.What\u2019s the catch with Infinis Energy? There are two. First, half its business is onshore wind farms and new energy secretary Amber Rudd supposedly hates the things; yesterday she said she would honour the Conservatives\u2019 pledge to kill current subsidies for onshore wind a year early. Second, the dominant shareholder is Guy Hands\u2019 Terra Firma, which has been saying for six months it might sell its 68.6% stake.These are serious worries \u2013 thus the one-quarter decline in Infinis\u2019s share price since flotation in 2013.But perhaps Rudd\u2019s war on onshore subsidies is not as damaging for Infinis as it seems. She plans to grant a \u201cgrace period\u201d to allow projects with planning permission to proceed. This is not a token concession either. She\u2019s talking \u201cup to 5.2GW\u201d of new on-shore wind capacity, which could mean another 3,000 turbines in the UK, on top of the 5,000 already turning (usually). Infinis\u2019s two big new projects in Scotland, adding 109MW to the company\u2019s current 274MW, should still be OK.Admittedly, there\u2019s a question mark over what Infinis does thereafter. A new contracts for difference subsidy regime arrives in 2017. Will onshore wind get a fair crack? In theory it should: onshore wind is cheaper than offshore variety, letalone grand projects like the Swansea Bay tidal lagoon. Plus, the UK\u2019s renewable energy targets will almost certainly rise after the Paris climate summit in September. On the other hand, it\u2019s hard to know what the government\u2019s plan to give local communities \u201cthe final say\u201d on windfarm applications will mean in practice.The other half of Infinis is unaffected \u2013 it extracts gas from landfill sites to generate electricity. There is little growth in that business since nobody is building new landfill sites, but the cashflows look extremely solid. They are the main source of comfort on the dividend.Cautious investors, understandably, would steer clear of a stock where the main shareholder is eyeing an exit. But, if you think Rudd has thrown only a medium-sized spanner in the turbines, Infinis is an intriguing stock at that dividend yield.Fitbit makes profits \u2013 net income was $132m last year \u2013 so it came to market in better shape than some Wall Street technology flotations. Even so, a 50% surge in the share price on day one, carrying the company\u2019s market value to $6bn, is hard to fathom.The company leads the market for fitness trackers, which probably aren\u2019t a fad. Fitbit is even able to shift its top-of-the-range versions at $250 a pop. But competitors are arriving in droves to this \u201cwearables\u201d market, from Apple to Google to Chinese tech firms. It\u2019s hard to believe profit margins will continue to be so good forever. Fitbit is now worth about six times this year\u2019s expected revenues. Too much, too soon.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Currencies", "Economics", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European monetary union", "World news", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Financial sector"], "title": "Would an Argentina-style cure work for Greece? Probably not"},{"date": "2015-06-08T17:11:50Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Chiara Paez was 14 years old. She was a few weeks pregnant. On May 11, after a three-day search, her body was found buried in the garden of her boyfriend\u2019s house. He was 16. Chiara had been beaten to death after having been forced to take medication to terminate her pregnancy. Her boyfriend, who confessed to the crime, had been helped by his mother.A couple of months earlier, the body of Daiana Garcia, 19, was found by the roadside. Her remains were inside a rubbish bag. The body of another young girl, Melina Romero, was found a few metres away from a waste-processing plant last year. She had gone missing after celebrating her 17th birthday at a dance club. In another case, the body of Angeles Rawson, 16, was found inside a rubbish-compacting machine. All were victims of gender violence; and the list goes on.Although official statistics are lacking, respected NGOs in this country \u2013 by compiling media reports \u2013 have calculated that a woman is killed every 30 hours because of gender violence. In the past seven years, more than 1,800 women have been killed in such circumstances. Given the absence of official reporting on femicide, this number is likely to be just the tip of the iceberg.Where once these gender crimes, in most instances against a partner or former partner, were likely to be committed in domestic settings, in many recent cases they have made a leap into the public sphere \u2013 into coffee shops and classrooms. \u201cMacho\u201d gender violence has taken on perverse new forms and entered new spaces in Argentina.Questions abound but there is one that rules over the rest: are more crimes being committed, or is it that they have become more visible?Whatever the answer, it was on the day they discovered Ciara\u2019s body that the idea to demonstrate was born; to take to the streets and shout \u201cstop femicide\u201d. The seed was a tweet in which Marcela Ojeda, a radio journalist, challenged women across the country with a phrase that is already historic: \u201cThey are killing us: Aren\u2019t we going to do anything?\u201dSome of us decided to do something. We protested, rallying around the slogan and hashtag #NiUnaMenos (\u201cNotOneLess\u201d, meaning we must not lose one more woman to violence).The main march was to the congress in the capital city of Buenos Aires, where I and the other female organisers were astounded at the size of the crowd. Groups of women from outside the city arrived bearing photos of their relatives, slain victims of femicide. Some of them yelled their disappointment at the failure of the police and the courts to respond adequately. \u201cI don\u2019t want you to tell me how to dress,\u201d read one of the handwritten placards.For the three weeks before, a group of female journalists, intellectuals and activists had come together, explaining to others why we needed to march. We underlined that Argentina has comprehensive anti-gender violence legislation, but the law has not been fully implemented. Budgets need to be assigned. Security forces and justice officials need to be trained in how to deal with women who wish to report violent partners. An official register of femicide cases needs to be established.We asked actors, television hosts and friends in showbiz to help. They each posed for a photo holding a sign reading #NiUnaMenos. Then, anonymous men and women, groups of friends, workmates, students, families and young children started doing the same. Politicians also joined, but only after the hashtag and the issue were already on everybody\u2019s lips.Before we knew it, in homes, schools, shops, on television, everywhere, people were talking about the issue. Young children grasped the concept and could explain to others that #NiUnaMenos was a campaign to eradicate violence against women \u2013 proof that our bid to raise awareness was beginning to bear fruit.When we started to promote our cause we were just a handful of women. But soon we were hundreds and then thousands.From the beginning we knew that what we wanted was not, or at least not exclusively, some form of collective venting of frustration. We wanted to ask for concrete action, not only by politicans and the justice system, but also by other sectors of civil society such as the media. We wanted criticism regarding the way these cases are presented, often focusing on the lifestyle of the victim, revictimising them again and again because of the way they dressed, the men they dated or the kinds of photos they posted on Facebook.And it was also a call for solidarity. We need to help woman experiencing domestic violence out of the spiral.The silent cry of women who suffer or have suffered domestic violence broke out of hundreds of thousands of throats that afternoon. This wave of violence must be stopped. Not because it is a noble cause. It\u2019s something much more basic. It is a human right.Barely 24 hours after the march ended we had the first piece of good news. Supreme court justice Elena Highton announced a registry of femicides would be set up at the court. The office of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner set off a series of tweets emphasising her government\u2019s concern. Meanwhile, the government\u2019s Human Rights Secretariat announced it, too, would start to compile statistics on femicides.Most important of all, judging by the massive turnout at the march, the majority of us now understand that looking away is no longer an option.\u2022 Hinde Pomeraniec is one of the 10 women journalists who, without personally knowing each other previously, came together via Twitter in mid-May to organise last Wednesday\u2019s mass demonstration against gender violence in Buenos Aires.", "tags": ["Women", "Life and style", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Domestic violence", "Society", "Gender"], "title": "How Argentina rose up against the murder of women"},{"date": "2015-06-18T18:31:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "There is a beguiling argument that life for Greece outside the eurozone wouldn\u2019t be so bad. Sure, the immediate economic pain would be severe, but a new drachma, coupled with debt default, might deliver a whoosh of relief in time. Isn\u2019t history full of countries that have devalued their way out of crisis by generating an export boom? Didn\u2019t Argentina recover that way when it abandoned its currency peg to the US dollar in 2002?Taken to its logical extreme, this argument says the real threat to the survival of the eurozone is that Greece leaves and prospers. Come the next crisis, other strugglers might opt to quit, dumping their debts as they go.If this idea sounds far-fetched, Jim Leaviss on M&G\u2019s bond team would agree. He makes an excellent case that Greece isn\u2019t Argentina, not by any stretch.Sure, there are parallels between the causes and symptoms of distress \u2013 an overvalued currency, unsustainable debts, shoddy tax collection, dodgy official statistics and high unemployment. But an Argentinian-style cure \u2013 massive devaluation and conversion of bank accounts \u2013 is unlikely to produce the same recovery in Greece, thinks Leaviss.Argentina was lucky with its timing of its devaluation, he argues. Global trade boomed after 2002 as the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates after the 9/11 terrorism attacks and China was welcomed into the world economy. A newly-competitive Argentina increased exports by 120% between 2002 and 2006.It\u2019s hard to imagine Greece copying that performance. Tourism is already 18% of the economy, so probably can\u2019t double as it almost did in Argentina. The poorer quality of the land makes an agricultural boom harder. Greece\u2019s biggest export (surprisingly) is refined petroleum, which is priced in dollars. And its biggest export market is Germany \u2013 \u201cpossibly problematic post a debt default\u201d, notes Leaviss dryly.His common-sense conclusion is that countries that thrived after devaluation (Canada and Sweden are other examples) had trading partners that were growing strongly. \u201cGreece does not have that luxury, nor an economy that can respond quickly to increased export competitiveness,\u201d concludes Leaviss. Note, too, that the Argentinian revival looks less impressive these days with real growth at just 0.5%. They\u2019re all good points, even if life inside the eurozone for Greece is also hellish.Here\u2019s an investment oddity: a company with a mammoth dividend yield of 9.5% and an intention, which most of its City followers think credible, to keep annual payments to shareholders rising in line with inflation, at a minimum.What\u2019s the catch with Infinis Energy? There are two. First, half its business is onshore wind farms and new energy secretary Amber Rudd supposedly hates the things; yesterday she said she would honour the Conservatives\u2019 pledge to kill current subsidies for onshore wind a year early. Second, the dominant shareholder is Guy Hands\u2019 Terra Firma, which has been saying for six months it might sell its 68.6% stake.These are serious worries \u2013 thus the one-quarter decline in Infinis\u2019s share price since flotation in 2013.But perhaps Rudd\u2019s war on onshore subsidies is not as damaging for Infinis as it seems. She plans to grant a \u201cgrace period\u201d to allow projects with planning permission to proceed. This is not a token concession either. She\u2019s talking \u201cup to 5.2GW\u201d of new on-shore wind capacity, which could mean another 3,000 turbines in the UK, on top of the 5,000 already turning (usually). Infinis\u2019s two big new projects in Scotland, adding 109MW to the company\u2019s current 274MW, should still be OK.Admittedly, there\u2019s a question mark over what Infinis does thereafter. A new contracts for difference subsidy regime arrives in 2017. Will onshore wind get a fair crack? In theory it should: onshore wind is cheaper than offshore variety, letalone grand projects like the Swansea Bay tidal lagoon. Plus, the UK\u2019s renewable energy targets will almost certainly rise after the Paris climate summit in September. On the other hand, it\u2019s hard to know what the government\u2019s plan to give local communities \u201cthe final say\u201d on windfarm applications will mean in practice.The other half of Infinis is unaffected \u2013 it extracts gas from landfill sites to generate electricity. There is little growth in that business since nobody is building new landfill sites, but the cashflows look extremely solid. They are the main source of comfort on the dividend.Cautious investors, understandably, would steer clear of a stock where the main shareholder is eyeing an exit. But, if you think Rudd has thrown only a medium-sized spanner in the turbines, Infinis is an intriguing stock at that dividend yield.Fitbit makes profits \u2013 net income was $132m last year \u2013 so it came to market in better shape than some Wall Street technology flotations. Even so, a 50% surge in the share price on day one, carrying the company\u2019s market value to $6bn, is hard to fathom.The company leads the market for fitness trackers, which probably aren\u2019t a fad. Fitbit is even able to shift its top-of-the-range versions at $250 a pop. But competitors are arriving in droves to this \u201cwearables\u201d market, from Apple to Google to Chinese tech firms. It\u2019s hard to believe profit margins will continue to be so good forever. Fitbit is now worth about six times this year\u2019s expected revenues. Too much, too soon.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Currencies", "Economics", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European monetary union", "World news", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Financial sector"], "title": "Would an Argentina-style cure work for Greece? Probably not"},{"date": "2015-06-08T17:11:50Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Chiara Paez was 14 years old. She was a few weeks pregnant. On May 11, after a three-day search, her body was found buried in the garden of her boyfriend\u2019s house. He was 16. Chiara had been beaten to death after having been forced to take medication to terminate her pregnancy. Her boyfriend, who confessed to the crime, had been helped by his mother.A couple of months earlier, the body of Daiana Garcia, 19, was found by the roadside. Her remains were inside a rubbish bag. The body of another young girl, Melina Romero, was found a few metres away from a waste-processing plant last year. She had gone missing after celebrating her 17th birthday at a dance club. In another case, the body of Angeles Rawson, 16, was found inside a rubbish-compacting machine. All were victims of gender violence; and the list goes on.Although official statistics are lacking, respected NGOs in this country \u2013 by compiling media reports \u2013 have calculated that a woman is killed every 30 hours because of gender violence. In the past seven years, more than 1,800 women have been killed in such circumstances. Given the absence of official reporting on femicide, this number is likely to be just the tip of the iceberg.Where once these gender crimes, in most instances against a partner or former partner, were likely to be committed in domestic settings, in many recent cases they have made a leap into the public sphere \u2013 into coffee shops and classrooms. \u201cMacho\u201d gender violence has taken on perverse new forms and entered new spaces in Argentina.Questions abound but there is one that rules over the rest: are more crimes being committed, or is it that they have become more visible?Whatever the answer, it was on the day they discovered Ciara\u2019s body that the idea to demonstrate was born; to take to the streets and shout \u201cstop femicide\u201d. The seed was a tweet in which Marcela Ojeda, a radio journalist, challenged women across the country with a phrase that is already historic: \u201cThey are killing us: Aren\u2019t we going to do anything?\u201dSome of us decided to do something. We protested, rallying around the slogan and hashtag #NiUnaMenos (\u201cNotOneLess\u201d, meaning we must not lose one more woman to violence).The main march was to the congress in the capital city of Buenos Aires, where I and the other female organisers were astounded at the size of the crowd. Groups of women from outside the city arrived bearing photos of their relatives, slain victims of femicide. Some of them yelled their disappointment at the failure of the police and the courts to respond adequately. \u201cI don\u2019t want you to tell me how to dress,\u201d read one of the handwritten placards.For the three weeks before, a group of female journalists, intellectuals and activists had come together, explaining to others why we needed to march. We underlined that Argentina has comprehensive anti-gender violence legislation, but the law has not been fully implemented. Budgets need to be assigned. Security forces and justice officials need to be trained in how to deal with women who wish to report violent partners. An official register of femicide cases needs to be established.We asked actors, television hosts and friends in showbiz to help. They each posed for a photo holding a sign reading #NiUnaMenos. Then, anonymous men and women, groups of friends, workmates, students, families and young children started doing the same. Politicians also joined, but only after the hashtag and the issue were already on everybody\u2019s lips.Before we knew it, in homes, schools, shops, on television, everywhere, people were talking about the issue. Young children grasped the concept and could explain to others that #NiUnaMenos was a campaign to eradicate violence against women \u2013 proof that our bid to raise awareness was beginning to bear fruit.When we started to promote our cause we were just a handful of women. But soon we were hundreds and then thousands.From the beginning we knew that what we wanted was not, or at least not exclusively, some form of collective venting of frustration. We wanted to ask for concrete action, not only by politicans and the justice system, but also by other sectors of civil society such as the media. We wanted criticism regarding the way these cases are presented, often focusing on the lifestyle of the victim, revictimising them again and again because of the way they dressed, the men they dated or the kinds of photos they posted on Facebook.And it was also a call for solidarity. We need to help woman experiencing domestic violence out of the spiral.The silent cry of women who suffer or have suffered domestic violence broke out of hundreds of thousands of throats that afternoon. This wave of violence must be stopped. Not because it is a noble cause. It\u2019s something much more basic. It is a human right.Barely 24 hours after the march ended we had the first piece of good news. Supreme court justice Elena Highton announced a registry of femicides would be set up at the court. The office of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner set off a series of tweets emphasising her government\u2019s concern. Meanwhile, the government\u2019s Human Rights Secretariat announced it, too, would start to compile statistics on femicides.Most important of all, judging by the massive turnout at the march, the majority of us now understand that looking away is no longer an option.\u2022 Hinde Pomeraniec is one of the 10 women journalists who, without personally knowing each other previously, came together via Twitter in mid-May to organise last Wednesday\u2019s mass demonstration against gender violence in Buenos Aires.", "tags": ["Women", "Life and style", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Domestic violence", "Society", "Gender"], "title": "How Argentina rose up against the murder of women"},{"date": "2015-04-29T19:01:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Pope Francis has ordered the Vatican to open its files on Argentina\u2019s military dictatorship, a move that could help the families of thousands of victims of the military regime finally discover the fate of their loved ones.\u201cThis is the pope\u2019s wish \u2013 for something to be done \u2013 so he has asked the secretariat of state to take charge of it, and work has already begun on declassifying the Vatican archives related to Argentina\u2019s dictatorship,\u201d Father Guillermo Karcher, an Argentinian priest who is a close aide of the pope, said in an interview with a Buenos Aires radio station. Related: New pope's role during Argentina's military era disputed During the 1976-83 dictatorship, 20,000 people were made to \u201cdisappear\u201d by the Argentinian authorities, who saw them as subversives. The Vatican collected a large amount of information on these cases, principally through the papal nuncio\u2019s office in Buenos Aires.The pope acceded to the opening of the Vatican archives at a meeting last week with Lita Boitano, the 83-year-old mother of two sons who were \u201cdisappeared\u201d during the dictatorship.\u201cPope Francis told me the Vatican will open its archives for that period,\u201d Boitano, president of the Argentinian human rights group Familiares (\u201cRelatives\u201d), said after her meeting with the pope in Rome.The pope \u2013 who was born in Buenos Aires \u2013 arranged a meeting between Boitano and Monsignor Giuseppe Laterza, an official in the Vatican secretariat of state, at which they also discussed the possibility of the Vatican issuing a statement of self-criticism regarding its role during Argentina\u2019s dictatorship, Boitano said.The most important documents to be released could be the reports wired to Rome by the Vatican\u2019s then ambassador to Buenos Aires, Monsignor Pio Laghi, who met regularly with the military chiefs. Laghi even played tennis on a regular basis with the navy\u2019s then commander-in-chief, Admiral Emilio Massera, considered to have been one of the bloodiest members of the three-man military junta that ruled Argentina with an iron fist.The Vatican also collected information from victims\u2019 families, who turned to Monsignor Laghi for help. The nuncio\u2019s office kept files on the thousands of disappearances reported by relatives and pleaded to the military for clemency, often acting as a go-between in specific cases.\u201cIt\u2019s not a promise, it\u2019s a certainty, and it is extremely important,\u201d said Graciela Lois in Buenos Aires, another member of Familiares who lost her husband Ricardo to the dictatorship. \u201cThis also shows a side of Pope Francis that not many realise is there,\u201d Lois added. \u201cYou must remember that during the dictatorship he was close friends with Esther Careaga, one of the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo [the mothers of the disappeared who confronted the military about the abuction of their children].\u201dThe pope, then Jorge Bergoglio and head of the Jesuit order in Argentina during the military regime, maintained his friendship with Careaga despite her revolutionary ideals and her harsh criticism of the regime. Careaga was finally \u201cdisappeared\u201d herself in December 1977 when the regime cracked down on the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo.\u201cIt was a very positive meeting,\u201d said Boitano regarding her meeting with Francis. \u201cHe promised us he would take care of the matter. The church had the exact data on the disappearances and the Vatican is looking for it.\u201d\u201cThe collection of the material has been concluded and there is a system to scan and digitise it,\u201d Monsignor Laterza of the secretariat of state told the Italian newsagency Ansa. \u201cIt could be available to the public in one year.\u201dSpeaking to the Guardian from Rome today where she continues meeting with Vatican officials, Boitano recalled how in her years in exile in Europe during the dictatorship she became aware first-hand of how much information on the \u201cdesparecidos\u201d the Vatican had.\u201cIn 1979 I was in Rome and had asked for a meeting with Pope John Paul II, which I didn\u2019t get, but I got a meeting with a Vatican official. When I gave him my name, he left and quickly returned with a file card with my name on it. It had all the details of my two kids and the exact dates of their kidnappings, they knew exactly who I was.\u201dDuring her one-and-half-hour meeting with Laterza, Boitano pleaded for an immediate opening of the archives after Laterza told her it would take at least one year till the work is completed. \u201cI told him I am 83 years old and that most of the mothers and fathers of the \u201cdisappeared\u201d who are still left alive are over 80 years old as well. We can\u2019t afford to wait any longer.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "Pope Francis", "Americas", "The papacy", "World news"], "title": "Pope Francis orders Vatican to open files on Argentina dictatorship"},{"date": "2015-06-18T18:31:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "There is a beguiling argument that life for Greece outside the eurozone wouldn\u2019t be so bad. Sure, the immediate economic pain would be severe, but a new drachma, coupled with debt default, might deliver a whoosh of relief in time. Isn\u2019t history full of countries that have devalued their way out of crisis by generating an export boom? Didn\u2019t Argentina recover that way when it abandoned its currency peg to the US dollar in 2002?Taken to its logical extreme, this argument says the real threat to the survival of the eurozone is that Greece leaves and prospers. Come the next crisis, other strugglers might opt to quit, dumping their debts as they go.If this idea sounds far-fetched, Jim Leaviss on M&G\u2019s bond team would agree. He makes an excellent case that Greece isn\u2019t Argentina, not by any stretch.Sure, there are parallels between the causes and symptoms of distress \u2013 an overvalued currency, unsustainable debts, shoddy tax collection, dodgy official statistics and high unemployment. But an Argentinian-style cure \u2013 massive devaluation and conversion of bank accounts \u2013 is unlikely to produce the same recovery in Greece, thinks Leaviss.Argentina was lucky with its timing of its devaluation, he argues. Global trade boomed after 2002 as the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates after the 9/11 terrorism attacks and China was welcomed into the world economy. A newly-competitive Argentina increased exports by 120% between 2002 and 2006.It\u2019s hard to imagine Greece copying that performance. Tourism is already 18% of the economy, so probably can\u2019t double as it almost did in Argentina. The poorer quality of the land makes an agricultural boom harder. Greece\u2019s biggest export (surprisingly) is refined petroleum, which is priced in dollars. And its biggest export market is Germany \u2013 \u201cpossibly problematic post a debt default\u201d, notes Leaviss dryly.His common-sense conclusion is that countries that thrived after devaluation (Canada and Sweden are other examples) had trading partners that were growing strongly. \u201cGreece does not have that luxury, nor an economy that can respond quickly to increased export competitiveness,\u201d concludes Leaviss. Note, too, that the Argentinian revival looks less impressive these days with real growth at just 0.5%. They\u2019re all good points, even if life inside the eurozone for Greece is also hellish.Here\u2019s an investment oddity: a company with a mammoth dividend yield of 9.5% and an intention, which most of its City followers think credible, to keep annual payments to shareholders rising in line with inflation, at a minimum.What\u2019s the catch with Infinis Energy? There are two. First, half its business is onshore wind farms and new energy secretary Amber Rudd supposedly hates the things; yesterday she said she would honour the Conservatives\u2019 pledge to kill current subsidies for onshore wind a year early. Second, the dominant shareholder is Guy Hands\u2019 Terra Firma, which has been saying for six months it might sell its 68.6% stake.These are serious worries \u2013 thus the one-quarter decline in Infinis\u2019s share price since flotation in 2013.But perhaps Rudd\u2019s war on onshore subsidies is not as damaging for Infinis as it seems. She plans to grant a \u201cgrace period\u201d to allow projects with planning permission to proceed. This is not a token concession either. She\u2019s talking \u201cup to 5.2GW\u201d of new on-shore wind capacity, which could mean another 3,000 turbines in the UK, on top of the 5,000 already turning (usually). Infinis\u2019s two big new projects in Scotland, adding 109MW to the company\u2019s current 274MW, should still be OK.Admittedly, there\u2019s a question mark over what Infinis does thereafter. A new contracts for difference subsidy regime arrives in 2017. Will onshore wind get a fair crack? In theory it should: onshore wind is cheaper than offshore variety, letalone grand projects like the Swansea Bay tidal lagoon. Plus, the UK\u2019s renewable energy targets will almost certainly rise after the Paris climate summit in September. On the other hand, it\u2019s hard to know what the government\u2019s plan to give local communities \u201cthe final say\u201d on windfarm applications will mean in practice.The other half of Infinis is unaffected \u2013 it extracts gas from landfill sites to generate electricity. There is little growth in that business since nobody is building new landfill sites, but the cashflows look extremely solid. They are the main source of comfort on the dividend.Cautious investors, understandably, would steer clear of a stock where the main shareholder is eyeing an exit. But, if you think Rudd has thrown only a medium-sized spanner in the turbines, Infinis is an intriguing stock at that dividend yield.Fitbit makes profits \u2013 net income was $132m last year \u2013 so it came to market in better shape than some Wall Street technology flotations. Even so, a 50% surge in the share price on day one, carrying the company\u2019s market value to $6bn, is hard to fathom.The company leads the market for fitness trackers, which probably aren\u2019t a fad. Fitbit is even able to shift its top-of-the-range versions at $250 a pop. But competitors are arriving in droves to this \u201cwearables\u201d market, from Apple to Google to Chinese tech firms. It\u2019s hard to believe profit margins will continue to be so good forever. Fitbit is now worth about six times this year\u2019s expected revenues. Too much, too soon.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Currencies", "Economics", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European monetary union", "World news", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Financial sector"], "title": "Would an Argentina-style cure work for Greece? Probably not"},{"date": "2015-06-08T17:11:50Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Chiara Paez was 14 years old. She was a few weeks pregnant. On May 11, after a three-day search, her body was found buried in the garden of her boyfriend\u2019s house. He was 16. Chiara had been beaten to death after having been forced to take medication to terminate her pregnancy. Her boyfriend, who confessed to the crime, had been helped by his mother.A couple of months earlier, the body of Daiana Garcia, 19, was found by the roadside. Her remains were inside a rubbish bag. The body of another young girl, Melina Romero, was found a few metres away from a waste-processing plant last year. She had gone missing after celebrating her 17th birthday at a dance club. In another case, the body of Angeles Rawson, 16, was found inside a rubbish-compacting machine. All were victims of gender violence; and the list goes on.Although official statistics are lacking, respected NGOs in this country \u2013 by compiling media reports \u2013 have calculated that a woman is killed every 30 hours because of gender violence. In the past seven years, more than 1,800 women have been killed in such circumstances. Given the absence of official reporting on femicide, this number is likely to be just the tip of the iceberg.Where once these gender crimes, in most instances against a partner or former partner, were likely to be committed in domestic settings, in many recent cases they have made a leap into the public sphere \u2013 into coffee shops and classrooms. \u201cMacho\u201d gender violence has taken on perverse new forms and entered new spaces in Argentina.Questions abound but there is one that rules over the rest: are more crimes being committed, or is it that they have become more visible?Whatever the answer, it was on the day they discovered Ciara\u2019s body that the idea to demonstrate was born; to take to the streets and shout \u201cstop femicide\u201d. The seed was a tweet in which Marcela Ojeda, a radio journalist, challenged women across the country with a phrase that is already historic: \u201cThey are killing us: Aren\u2019t we going to do anything?\u201dSome of us decided to do something. We protested, rallying around the slogan and hashtag #NiUnaMenos (\u201cNotOneLess\u201d, meaning we must not lose one more woman to violence).The main march was to the congress in the capital city of Buenos Aires, where I and the other female organisers were astounded at the size of the crowd. Groups of women from outside the city arrived bearing photos of their relatives, slain victims of femicide. Some of them yelled their disappointment at the failure of the police and the courts to respond adequately. \u201cI don\u2019t want you to tell me how to dress,\u201d read one of the handwritten placards.For the three weeks before, a group of female journalists, intellectuals and activists had come together, explaining to others why we needed to march. We underlined that Argentina has comprehensive anti-gender violence legislation, but the law has not been fully implemented. Budgets need to be assigned. Security forces and justice officials need to be trained in how to deal with women who wish to report violent partners. An official register of femicide cases needs to be established.We asked actors, television hosts and friends in showbiz to help. They each posed for a photo holding a sign reading #NiUnaMenos. Then, anonymous men and women, groups of friends, workmates, students, families and young children started doing the same. Politicians also joined, but only after the hashtag and the issue were already on everybody\u2019s lips.Before we knew it, in homes, schools, shops, on television, everywhere, people were talking about the issue. Young children grasped the concept and could explain to others that #NiUnaMenos was a campaign to eradicate violence against women \u2013 proof that our bid to raise awareness was beginning to bear fruit.When we started to promote our cause we were just a handful of women. But soon we were hundreds and then thousands.From the beginning we knew that what we wanted was not, or at least not exclusively, some form of collective venting of frustration. We wanted to ask for concrete action, not only by politicans and the justice system, but also by other sectors of civil society such as the media. We wanted criticism regarding the way these cases are presented, often focusing on the lifestyle of the victim, revictimising them again and again because of the way they dressed, the men they dated or the kinds of photos they posted on Facebook.And it was also a call for solidarity. We need to help woman experiencing domestic violence out of the spiral.The silent cry of women who suffer or have suffered domestic violence broke out of hundreds of thousands of throats that afternoon. This wave of violence must be stopped. Not because it is a noble cause. It\u2019s something much more basic. It is a human right.Barely 24 hours after the march ended we had the first piece of good news. Supreme court justice Elena Highton announced a registry of femicides would be set up at the court. The office of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner set off a series of tweets emphasising her government\u2019s concern. Meanwhile, the government\u2019s Human Rights Secretariat announced it, too, would start to compile statistics on femicides.Most important of all, judging by the massive turnout at the march, the majority of us now understand that looking away is no longer an option.\u2022 Hinde Pomeraniec is one of the 10 women journalists who, without personally knowing each other previously, came together via Twitter in mid-May to organise last Wednesday\u2019s mass demonstration against gender violence in Buenos Aires.", "tags": ["Women", "Life and style", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Domestic violence", "Society", "Gender"], "title": "How Argentina rose up against the murder of women"},{"date": "2015-04-29T19:01:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Pope Francis has ordered the Vatican to open its files on Argentina\u2019s military dictatorship, a move that could help the families of thousands of victims of the military regime finally discover the fate of their loved ones.\u201cThis is the pope\u2019s wish \u2013 for something to be done \u2013 so he has asked the secretariat of state to take charge of it, and work has already begun on declassifying the Vatican archives related to Argentina\u2019s dictatorship,\u201d Father Guillermo Karcher, an Argentinian priest who is a close aide of the pope, said in an interview with a Buenos Aires radio station. Related: New pope's role during Argentina's military era disputed During the 1976-83 dictatorship, 20,000 people were made to \u201cdisappear\u201d by the Argentinian authorities, who saw them as subversives. The Vatican collected a large amount of information on these cases, principally through the papal nuncio\u2019s office in Buenos Aires.The pope acceded to the opening of the Vatican archives at a meeting last week with Lita Boitano, the 83-year-old mother of two sons who were \u201cdisappeared\u201d during the dictatorship.\u201cPope Francis told me the Vatican will open its archives for that period,\u201d Boitano, president of the Argentinian human rights group Familiares (\u201cRelatives\u201d), said after her meeting with the pope in Rome.The pope \u2013 who was born in Buenos Aires \u2013 arranged a meeting between Boitano and Monsignor Giuseppe Laterza, an official in the Vatican secretariat of state, at which they also discussed the possibility of the Vatican issuing a statement of self-criticism regarding its role during Argentina\u2019s dictatorship, Boitano said.The most important documents to be released could be the reports wired to Rome by the Vatican\u2019s then ambassador to Buenos Aires, Monsignor Pio Laghi, who met regularly with the military chiefs. Laghi even played tennis on a regular basis with the navy\u2019s then commander-in-chief, Admiral Emilio Massera, considered to have been one of the bloodiest members of the three-man military junta that ruled Argentina with an iron fist.The Vatican also collected information from victims\u2019 families, who turned to Monsignor Laghi for help. The nuncio\u2019s office kept files on the thousands of disappearances reported by relatives and pleaded to the military for clemency, often acting as a go-between in specific cases.\u201cIt\u2019s not a promise, it\u2019s a certainty, and it is extremely important,\u201d said Graciela Lois in Buenos Aires, another member of Familiares who lost her husband Ricardo to the dictatorship. \u201cThis also shows a side of Pope Francis that not many realise is there,\u201d Lois added. \u201cYou must remember that during the dictatorship he was close friends with Esther Careaga, one of the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo [the mothers of the disappeared who confronted the military about the abuction of their children].\u201dThe pope, then Jorge Bergoglio and head of the Jesuit order in Argentina during the military regime, maintained his friendship with Careaga despite her revolutionary ideals and her harsh criticism of the regime. Careaga was finally \u201cdisappeared\u201d herself in December 1977 when the regime cracked down on the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo.\u201cIt was a very positive meeting,\u201d said Boitano regarding her meeting with Francis. \u201cHe promised us he would take care of the matter. The church had the exact data on the disappearances and the Vatican is looking for it.\u201d\u201cThe collection of the material has been concluded and there is a system to scan and digitise it,\u201d Monsignor Laterza of the secretariat of state told the Italian newsagency Ansa. \u201cIt could be available to the public in one year.\u201dSpeaking to the Guardian from Rome today where she continues meeting with Vatican officials, Boitano recalled how in her years in exile in Europe during the dictatorship she became aware first-hand of how much information on the \u201cdesparecidos\u201d the Vatican had.\u201cIn 1979 I was in Rome and had asked for a meeting with Pope John Paul II, which I didn\u2019t get, but I got a meeting with a Vatican official. When I gave him my name, he left and quickly returned with a file card with my name on it. It had all the details of my two kids and the exact dates of their kidnappings, they knew exactly who I was.\u201dDuring her one-and-half-hour meeting with Laterza, Boitano pleaded for an immediate opening of the archives after Laterza told her it would take at least one year till the work is completed. \u201cI told him I am 83 years old and that most of the mothers and fathers of the \u201cdisappeared\u201d who are still left alive are over 80 years old as well. We can\u2019t afford to wait any longer.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "Pope Francis", "Americas", "The papacy", "World news"], "title": "Pope Francis orders Vatican to open files on Argentina dictatorship"},{"date": "2015-04-21T15:29:56Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has gone on the offensive against her critics by claiming she is the target of a conspiracy between US \u201cvulture funds,\u201d Jewish community groups and the prosecutor Alberto Nisman, who died in suspicious circumstances earlier this year.In a lengthy column published on her official website, Fern\u00e1ndez alleges a close connection between pro-Israeli groups and individuals who, she says, were plotting to undermine her efforts to secure closer ties to Iran.\u201cWe are facing a global modus operandi, which not only severely injures national sovereignty, but also generates international political operations of any type, shape and colour,\u201d she writes in a post entitled \u201cEverything has to do with everything.\u201d  Related: Spies, cover-ups and the mysterious death of an Argentinian prosecutor Her comments follow massive street demonstrations over the death of Nisman, who was found with a bullet in his brain the day before he was due to allege in Congress that the president was covering up alleged Iranian involvement in the 1994 bombing of the Amia Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires because she wanted a trade deal with Tehran.Fern\u00e1ndez at first claimed that Nisman\u2019s death was a suicide, then stated that he was most likely killed by rogue elements in the secret service who were plotting against her. The investigation into his death, meanwhile, remains bogged down in court, where conflicting forensic tests suggest it could have been either murder or suicide. Related: Profile: Argentina's nemesis, hedge fund manager Paul Singer The president\u2019s latest column adds a new twist by alleging links between Nisman and US fund manager Paul Singer, who has been locked in a decade-long financial battle to collect $1.5bn from Argentina on defaulted foreign bonds held by an affiliate NML Capital.Fern\u00e1ndez says Nisman told leaders of the Delegation of Argentine Israeli Associations (Daia): \u201cIf necessary, Paul Singer will help us.\u201d This is alleged to have happened two years ago when Nisman lobbied the body \u2013 which represents the country\u2019s Jews \u2013 to mount a legal challenge a memorandum of understanding between Argentina and Iran.Nisman and his supporters alleged that the memorandum was part of a conspiracy to cover up Iran\u2019s involvement in the bombing in exchange for a trade deal \u2013 a charge denied by both Iran and Fern\u00e1ndez. The president\u2019s allegations that Singer supported her critics were based on an article in the government-friendly newspaper P\u00e1gina 12 by Jorge Elbaum, a former executive director of Daia. Elbaum claimed Singer was funding opposition to the Iran-Argentina deal in Buenos Aires and Washington. The report says Singer also donated $3.6m between 2008 and 2014 to the Foundation for Defence of Democracies, a thinktank whose executive director, Mark Dubowitz, claims to be a friend of Nisman\u2019s.Fern\u00e1ndez said she saw parallels between these activities and the Israeli government\u2019s support for US members of Congress who aimed to block the recent US-Iran nuclear deal. In both cases, she said lobbyists and covert agencies organised financial attacks and media smear operations designed to destabilised governments. \u201cAny similarity is not coincidence,\u201d she wrote. \u201cEverything has to do with geopolitics and international power. Sometimes their effects can be on global peace, such as preventing the possibility of an agreement between the US and other powers with Iran on nuclear matters. Or those effects can be collateral, such as making impossible an agreement that would contribute bring truth and justice for victims of the Amia, after 21 years.\u201dA spokesman for Singer\u2019s hedge fund Elliott Management denied the acccusations.\u201cThe allegation that Mr Singer had any contact whatsoever with Mr Nisman is categorically false. This is just another desperate attempt by Cristina Kirchner to blame creditors for her administration\u2019s multiplying scandals and failed economic policies,\u201d the spokesman said. Jewish leaders also responded angrily to the president\u2019s claims. \u201cIt\u2019s a lie,\u201d said Daia\u2019s vice-president Waldo Wolff. \u201cIt\u2019s terrible, it\u2019s incredible. If she believes this to be true she should present the evidence in court.\u201dWolff said that Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s charges are \u201ca smokescreen\u201d to cover up Nisman\u2019s death.But the legal case against Fern\u00e1ndez, inspired by Nisman\u2019s investigation, appeared to have suffered an almost fatal blow on Monday, when a prosecutor dismissed claims that the president helped shield Iranian officials allegedly behind the 1994 bombing.Citing insufficient evidence to warrant further investigation, prosecutor Javier De Luca said: \u201cThere has been no crime.\u201dThe case had earlier been rejected by both a federal judge and an appeals court.Opinion polls show that about 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 but that his death will never be solved.This article was amended on 21 April 2015 to delete a reference that erroneously stated that the Foundation for the Defence of Democracies had produced several papers criticising Argentina\u2019s policy on vulture funds and Tehran.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina president: US 'vulture funds' backed Nisman before his death"},{"date": "2015-06-18T18:31:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "There is a beguiling argument that life for Greece outside the eurozone wouldn\u2019t be so bad. Sure, the immediate economic pain would be severe, but a new drachma, coupled with debt default, might deliver a whoosh of relief in time. Isn\u2019t history full of countries that have devalued their way out of crisis by generating an export boom? Didn\u2019t Argentina recover that way when it abandoned its currency peg to the US dollar in 2002?Taken to its logical extreme, this argument says the real threat to the survival of the eurozone is that Greece leaves and prospers. Come the next crisis, other strugglers might opt to quit, dumping their debts as they go.If this idea sounds far-fetched, Jim Leaviss on M&G\u2019s bond team would agree. He makes an excellent case that Greece isn\u2019t Argentina, not by any stretch.Sure, there are parallels between the causes and symptoms of distress \u2013 an overvalued currency, unsustainable debts, shoddy tax collection, dodgy official statistics and high unemployment. But an Argentinian-style cure \u2013 massive devaluation and conversion of bank accounts \u2013 is unlikely to produce the same recovery in Greece, thinks Leaviss.Argentina was lucky with its timing of its devaluation, he argues. Global trade boomed after 2002 as the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates after the 9/11 terrorism attacks and China was welcomed into the world economy. A newly-competitive Argentina increased exports by 120% between 2002 and 2006.It\u2019s hard to imagine Greece copying that performance. Tourism is already 18% of the economy, so probably can\u2019t double as it almost did in Argentina. The poorer quality of the land makes an agricultural boom harder. Greece\u2019s biggest export (surprisingly) is refined petroleum, which is priced in dollars. And its biggest export market is Germany \u2013 \u201cpossibly problematic post a debt default\u201d, notes Leaviss dryly.His common-sense conclusion is that countries that thrived after devaluation (Canada and Sweden are other examples) had trading partners that were growing strongly. \u201cGreece does not have that luxury, nor an economy that can respond quickly to increased export competitiveness,\u201d concludes Leaviss. Note, too, that the Argentinian revival looks less impressive these days with real growth at just 0.5%. They\u2019re all good points, even if life inside the eurozone for Greece is also hellish.Here\u2019s an investment oddity: a company with a mammoth dividend yield of 9.5% and an intention, which most of its City followers think credible, to keep annual payments to shareholders rising in line with inflation, at a minimum.What\u2019s the catch with Infinis Energy? There are two. First, half its business is onshore wind farms and new energy secretary Amber Rudd supposedly hates the things; yesterday she said she would honour the Conservatives\u2019 pledge to kill current subsidies for onshore wind a year early. Second, the dominant shareholder is Guy Hands\u2019 Terra Firma, which has been saying for six months it might sell its 68.6% stake.These are serious worries \u2013 thus the one-quarter decline in Infinis\u2019s share price since flotation in 2013.But perhaps Rudd\u2019s war on onshore subsidies is not as damaging for Infinis as it seems. She plans to grant a \u201cgrace period\u201d to allow projects with planning permission to proceed. This is not a token concession either. She\u2019s talking \u201cup to 5.2GW\u201d of new on-shore wind capacity, which could mean another 3,000 turbines in the UK, on top of the 5,000 already turning (usually). Infinis\u2019s two big new projects in Scotland, adding 109MW to the company\u2019s current 274MW, should still be OK.Admittedly, there\u2019s a question mark over what Infinis does thereafter. A new contracts for difference subsidy regime arrives in 2017. Will onshore wind get a fair crack? In theory it should: onshore wind is cheaper than offshore variety, letalone grand projects like the Swansea Bay tidal lagoon. Plus, the UK\u2019s renewable energy targets will almost certainly rise after the Paris climate summit in September. On the other hand, it\u2019s hard to know what the government\u2019s plan to give local communities \u201cthe final say\u201d on windfarm applications will mean in practice.The other half of Infinis is unaffected \u2013 it extracts gas from landfill sites to generate electricity. There is little growth in that business since nobody is building new landfill sites, but the cashflows look extremely solid. They are the main source of comfort on the dividend.Cautious investors, understandably, would steer clear of a stock where the main shareholder is eyeing an exit. But, if you think Rudd has thrown only a medium-sized spanner in the turbines, Infinis is an intriguing stock at that dividend yield.Fitbit makes profits \u2013 net income was $132m last year \u2013 so it came to market in better shape than some Wall Street technology flotations. Even so, a 50% surge in the share price on day one, carrying the company\u2019s market value to $6bn, is hard to fathom.The company leads the market for fitness trackers, which probably aren\u2019t a fad. Fitbit is even able to shift its top-of-the-range versions at $250 a pop. But competitors are arriving in droves to this \u201cwearables\u201d market, from Apple to Google to Chinese tech firms. It\u2019s hard to believe profit margins will continue to be so good forever. Fitbit is now worth about six times this year\u2019s expected revenues. Too much, too soon.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Currencies", "Economics", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European monetary union", "World news", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Financial sector"], "title": "Would an Argentina-style cure work for Greece? Probably not"},{"date": "2015-06-08T17:11:50Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Chiara Paez was 14 years old. She was a few weeks pregnant. On May 11, after a three-day search, her body was found buried in the garden of her boyfriend\u2019s house. He was 16. Chiara had been beaten to death after having been forced to take medication to terminate her pregnancy. Her boyfriend, who confessed to the crime, had been helped by his mother.A couple of months earlier, the body of Daiana Garcia, 19, was found by the roadside. Her remains were inside a rubbish bag. The body of another young girl, Melina Romero, was found a few metres away from a waste-processing plant last year. She had gone missing after celebrating her 17th birthday at a dance club. In another case, the body of Angeles Rawson, 16, was found inside a rubbish-compacting machine. All were victims of gender violence; and the list goes on.Although official statistics are lacking, respected NGOs in this country \u2013 by compiling media reports \u2013 have calculated that a woman is killed every 30 hours because of gender violence. In the past seven years, more than 1,800 women have been killed in such circumstances. Given the absence of official reporting on femicide, this number is likely to be just the tip of the iceberg.Where once these gender crimes, in most instances against a partner or former partner, were likely to be committed in domestic settings, in many recent cases they have made a leap into the public sphere \u2013 into coffee shops and classrooms. \u201cMacho\u201d gender violence has taken on perverse new forms and entered new spaces in Argentina.Questions abound but there is one that rules over the rest: are more crimes being committed, or is it that they have become more visible?Whatever the answer, it was on the day they discovered Ciara\u2019s body that the idea to demonstrate was born; to take to the streets and shout \u201cstop femicide\u201d. The seed was a tweet in which Marcela Ojeda, a radio journalist, challenged women across the country with a phrase that is already historic: \u201cThey are killing us: Aren\u2019t we going to do anything?\u201dSome of us decided to do something. We protested, rallying around the slogan and hashtag #NiUnaMenos (\u201cNotOneLess\u201d, meaning we must not lose one more woman to violence).The main march was to the congress in the capital city of Buenos Aires, where I and the other female organisers were astounded at the size of the crowd. Groups of women from outside the city arrived bearing photos of their relatives, slain victims of femicide. Some of them yelled their disappointment at the failure of the police and the courts to respond adequately. \u201cI don\u2019t want you to tell me how to dress,\u201d read one of the handwritten placards.For the three weeks before, a group of female journalists, intellectuals and activists had come together, explaining to others why we needed to march. We underlined that Argentina has comprehensive anti-gender violence legislation, but the law has not been fully implemented. Budgets need to be assigned. Security forces and justice officials need to be trained in how to deal with women who wish to report violent partners. An official register of femicide cases needs to be established.We asked actors, television hosts and friends in showbiz to help. They each posed for a photo holding a sign reading #NiUnaMenos. Then, anonymous men and women, groups of friends, workmates, students, families and young children started doing the same. Politicians also joined, but only after the hashtag and the issue were already on everybody\u2019s lips.Before we knew it, in homes, schools, shops, on television, everywhere, people were talking about the issue. Young children grasped the concept and could explain to others that #NiUnaMenos was a campaign to eradicate violence against women \u2013 proof that our bid to raise awareness was beginning to bear fruit.When we started to promote our cause we were just a handful of women. But soon we were hundreds and then thousands.From the beginning we knew that what we wanted was not, or at least not exclusively, some form of collective venting of frustration. We wanted to ask for concrete action, not only by politicans and the justice system, but also by other sectors of civil society such as the media. We wanted criticism regarding the way these cases are presented, often focusing on the lifestyle of the victim, revictimising them again and again because of the way they dressed, the men they dated or the kinds of photos they posted on Facebook.And it was also a call for solidarity. We need to help woman experiencing domestic violence out of the spiral.The silent cry of women who suffer or have suffered domestic violence broke out of hundreds of thousands of throats that afternoon. This wave of violence must be stopped. Not because it is a noble cause. It\u2019s something much more basic. It is a human right.Barely 24 hours after the march ended we had the first piece of good news. Supreme court justice Elena Highton announced a registry of femicides would be set up at the court. The office of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner set off a series of tweets emphasising her government\u2019s concern. Meanwhile, the government\u2019s Human Rights Secretariat announced it, too, would start to compile statistics on femicides.Most important of all, judging by the massive turnout at the march, the majority of us now understand that looking away is no longer an option.\u2022 Hinde Pomeraniec is one of the 10 women journalists who, without personally knowing each other previously, came together via Twitter in mid-May to organise last Wednesday\u2019s mass demonstration against gender violence in Buenos Aires.", "tags": ["Women", "Life and style", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Domestic violence", "Society", "Gender"], "title": "How Argentina rose up against the murder of women"},{"date": "2015-04-29T19:01:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Pope Francis has ordered the Vatican to open its files on Argentina\u2019s military dictatorship, a move that could help the families of thousands of victims of the military regime finally discover the fate of their loved ones.\u201cThis is the pope\u2019s wish \u2013 for something to be done \u2013 so he has asked the secretariat of state to take charge of it, and work has already begun on declassifying the Vatican archives related to Argentina\u2019s dictatorship,\u201d Father Guillermo Karcher, an Argentinian priest who is a close aide of the pope, said in an interview with a Buenos Aires radio station. Related: New pope's role during Argentina's military era disputed During the 1976-83 dictatorship, 20,000 people were made to \u201cdisappear\u201d by the Argentinian authorities, who saw them as subversives. The Vatican collected a large amount of information on these cases, principally through the papal nuncio\u2019s office in Buenos Aires.The pope acceded to the opening of the Vatican archives at a meeting last week with Lita Boitano, the 83-year-old mother of two sons who were \u201cdisappeared\u201d during the dictatorship.\u201cPope Francis told me the Vatican will open its archives for that period,\u201d Boitano, president of the Argentinian human rights group Familiares (\u201cRelatives\u201d), said after her meeting with the pope in Rome.The pope \u2013 who was born in Buenos Aires \u2013 arranged a meeting between Boitano and Monsignor Giuseppe Laterza, an official in the Vatican secretariat of state, at which they also discussed the possibility of the Vatican issuing a statement of self-criticism regarding its role during Argentina\u2019s dictatorship, Boitano said.The most important documents to be released could be the reports wired to Rome by the Vatican\u2019s then ambassador to Buenos Aires, Monsignor Pio Laghi, who met regularly with the military chiefs. Laghi even played tennis on a regular basis with the navy\u2019s then commander-in-chief, Admiral Emilio Massera, considered to have been one of the bloodiest members of the three-man military junta that ruled Argentina with an iron fist.The Vatican also collected information from victims\u2019 families, who turned to Monsignor Laghi for help. The nuncio\u2019s office kept files on the thousands of disappearances reported by relatives and pleaded to the military for clemency, often acting as a go-between in specific cases.\u201cIt\u2019s not a promise, it\u2019s a certainty, and it is extremely important,\u201d said Graciela Lois in Buenos Aires, another member of Familiares who lost her husband Ricardo to the dictatorship. \u201cThis also shows a side of Pope Francis that not many realise is there,\u201d Lois added. \u201cYou must remember that during the dictatorship he was close friends with Esther Careaga, one of the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo [the mothers of the disappeared who confronted the military about the abuction of their children].\u201dThe pope, then Jorge Bergoglio and head of the Jesuit order in Argentina during the military regime, maintained his friendship with Careaga despite her revolutionary ideals and her harsh criticism of the regime. Careaga was finally \u201cdisappeared\u201d herself in December 1977 when the regime cracked down on the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo.\u201cIt was a very positive meeting,\u201d said Boitano regarding her meeting with Francis. \u201cHe promised us he would take care of the matter. The church had the exact data on the disappearances and the Vatican is looking for it.\u201d\u201cThe collection of the material has been concluded and there is a system to scan and digitise it,\u201d Monsignor Laterza of the secretariat of state told the Italian newsagency Ansa. \u201cIt could be available to the public in one year.\u201dSpeaking to the Guardian from Rome today where she continues meeting with Vatican officials, Boitano recalled how in her years in exile in Europe during the dictatorship she became aware first-hand of how much information on the \u201cdesparecidos\u201d the Vatican had.\u201cIn 1979 I was in Rome and had asked for a meeting with Pope John Paul II, which I didn\u2019t get, but I got a meeting with a Vatican official. When I gave him my name, he left and quickly returned with a file card with my name on it. It had all the details of my two kids and the exact dates of their kidnappings, they knew exactly who I was.\u201dDuring her one-and-half-hour meeting with Laterza, Boitano pleaded for an immediate opening of the archives after Laterza told her it would take at least one year till the work is completed. \u201cI told him I am 83 years old and that most of the mothers and fathers of the \u201cdisappeared\u201d who are still left alive are over 80 years old as well. We can\u2019t afford to wait any longer.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "Pope Francis", "Americas", "The papacy", "World news"], "title": "Pope Francis orders Vatican to open files on Argentina dictatorship"},{"date": "2015-04-21T15:29:56Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has gone on the offensive against her critics by claiming she is the target of a conspiracy between US \u201cvulture funds,\u201d Jewish community groups and the prosecutor Alberto Nisman, who died in suspicious circumstances earlier this year.In a lengthy column published on her official website, Fern\u00e1ndez alleges a close connection between pro-Israeli groups and individuals who, she says, were plotting to undermine her efforts to secure closer ties to Iran.\u201cWe are facing a global modus operandi, which not only severely injures national sovereignty, but also generates international political operations of any type, shape and colour,\u201d she writes in a post entitled \u201cEverything has to do with everything.\u201d  Related: Spies, cover-ups and the mysterious death of an Argentinian prosecutor Her comments follow massive street demonstrations over the death of Nisman, who was found with a bullet in his brain the day before he was due to allege in Congress that the president was covering up alleged Iranian involvement in the 1994 bombing of the Amia Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires because she wanted a trade deal with Tehran.Fern\u00e1ndez at first claimed that Nisman\u2019s death was a suicide, then stated that he was most likely killed by rogue elements in the secret service who were plotting against her. The investigation into his death, meanwhile, remains bogged down in court, where conflicting forensic tests suggest it could have been either murder or suicide. Related: Profile: Argentina's nemesis, hedge fund manager Paul Singer The president\u2019s latest column adds a new twist by alleging links between Nisman and US fund manager Paul Singer, who has been locked in a decade-long financial battle to collect $1.5bn from Argentina on defaulted foreign bonds held by an affiliate NML Capital.Fern\u00e1ndez says Nisman told leaders of the Delegation of Argentine Israeli Associations (Daia): \u201cIf necessary, Paul Singer will help us.\u201d This is alleged to have happened two years ago when Nisman lobbied the body \u2013 which represents the country\u2019s Jews \u2013 to mount a legal challenge a memorandum of understanding between Argentina and Iran.Nisman and his supporters alleged that the memorandum was part of a conspiracy to cover up Iran\u2019s involvement in the bombing in exchange for a trade deal \u2013 a charge denied by both Iran and Fern\u00e1ndez. The president\u2019s allegations that Singer supported her critics were based on an article in the government-friendly newspaper P\u00e1gina 12 by Jorge Elbaum, a former executive director of Daia. Elbaum claimed Singer was funding opposition to the Iran-Argentina deal in Buenos Aires and Washington. The report says Singer also donated $3.6m between 2008 and 2014 to the Foundation for Defence of Democracies, a thinktank whose executive director, Mark Dubowitz, claims to be a friend of Nisman\u2019s.Fern\u00e1ndez said she saw parallels between these activities and the Israeli government\u2019s support for US members of Congress who aimed to block the recent US-Iran nuclear deal. In both cases, she said lobbyists and covert agencies organised financial attacks and media smear operations designed to destabilised governments. \u201cAny similarity is not coincidence,\u201d she wrote. \u201cEverything has to do with geopolitics and international power. Sometimes their effects can be on global peace, such as preventing the possibility of an agreement between the US and other powers with Iran on nuclear matters. Or those effects can be collateral, such as making impossible an agreement that would contribute bring truth and justice for victims of the Amia, after 21 years.\u201dA spokesman for Singer\u2019s hedge fund Elliott Management denied the acccusations.\u201cThe allegation that Mr Singer had any contact whatsoever with Mr Nisman is categorically false. This is just another desperate attempt by Cristina Kirchner to blame creditors for her administration\u2019s multiplying scandals and failed economic policies,\u201d the spokesman said. Jewish leaders also responded angrily to the president\u2019s claims. \u201cIt\u2019s a lie,\u201d said Daia\u2019s vice-president Waldo Wolff. \u201cIt\u2019s terrible, it\u2019s incredible. If she believes this to be true she should present the evidence in court.\u201dWolff said that Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s charges are \u201ca smokescreen\u201d to cover up Nisman\u2019s death.But the legal case against Fern\u00e1ndez, inspired by Nisman\u2019s investigation, appeared to have suffered an almost fatal blow on Monday, when a prosecutor dismissed claims that the president helped shield Iranian officials allegedly behind the 1994 bombing.Citing insufficient evidence to warrant further investigation, prosecutor Javier De Luca said: \u201cThere has been no crime.\u201dThe case had earlier been rejected by both a federal judge and an appeals court.Opinion polls show that about 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 but that his death will never be solved.This article was amended on 21 April 2015 to delete a reference that erroneously stated that the Foundation for the Defence of Democracies had produced several papers criticising Argentina\u2019s policy on vulture funds and Tehran.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina president: US 'vulture funds' backed Nisman before his death"},{"date": "2015-04-10T08:53:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Tensions between Britain and Argentina over the Falkland Islands have escalated after they summoned each other\u2019s ambassadors.John Freeman, the British ambassador, was called in by Argentina\u2019s deputy foreign minister, Eduardo Zuain, who is said to have demanded Freeman account for the \u201csilence of the British government\u201d after allegations made by the US whistleblower Edward Snowden last week that British agents spied on Argentina between 2006 and 2011.In a meeting in Buenos Aires on Thursday, Zuain is said to have warned Freeman that Argentina would prosecute oil companies working in waters off the Falklands, and repeated complaints about British plans to boost defences on the islands.A Foreign Office spokesman confirmed that Freeman was summoned on Thursday, but declined to comment further.On Wednesday the Foreign Office called in Argentina\u2019s ambassador to London over comments made by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner on 2 April, the 33rd anniversary of the start of the Falklands war. Fern\u00e1ndez reportedly said: \u201cInternational law and dialogue, not militarisation, are the path to a reunion and sovereignty. We will see the islands form part of our territory again. It\u2019s not just wishful thinking.\u201dThe remarks were made in response to the announcement by Michael Fallon, the defence secretary, that two Chinook helicopters and an upgraded surface-to-air missile system would be part of a new defence package for the Falkland Islands.The Foreign Office said: \u201cThe UK has no doubt about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and surrounding maritime areas, nor about the Falkland Islanders\u2019 right to decide their own future.\u201cWe object strongly to recent statements by the Argentine president and the Argentine ambassador to London and so summoned the ambassador to account for these.\u201dLast week Britain dismissed the threat of prosecution against three oil and gas firms. The companies \u2013 Premier Oil, Rockhopper Exploration and Falkland Oil & Gas \u2013 announced they had found oil and gas in a remote field north of the islands.In 2013, Falkland Islanders took part in a referendum, voting by 1,513 to three to remain a British overseas territory.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "World news", "Americas", "Politics"], "title": "Britain and Argentina summon each other's ambassadors in Falklands row"},{"date": "2015-06-18T18:31:41Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "There is a beguiling argument that life for Greece outside the eurozone wouldn\u2019t be so bad. Sure, the immediate economic pain would be severe, but a new drachma, coupled with debt default, might deliver a whoosh of relief in time. Isn\u2019t history full of countries that have devalued their way out of crisis by generating an export boom? Didn\u2019t Argentina recover that way when it abandoned its currency peg to the US dollar in 2002?Taken to its logical extreme, this argument says the real threat to the survival of the eurozone is that Greece leaves and prospers. Come the next crisis, other strugglers might opt to quit, dumping their debts as they go.If this idea sounds far-fetched, Jim Leaviss on M&G\u2019s bond team would agree. He makes an excellent case that Greece isn\u2019t Argentina, not by any stretch.Sure, there are parallels between the causes and symptoms of distress \u2013 an overvalued currency, unsustainable debts, shoddy tax collection, dodgy official statistics and high unemployment. But an Argentinian-style cure \u2013 massive devaluation and conversion of bank accounts \u2013 is unlikely to produce the same recovery in Greece, thinks Leaviss.Argentina was lucky with its timing of its devaluation, he argues. Global trade boomed after 2002 as the US Federal Reserve cut interest rates after the 9/11 terrorism attacks and China was welcomed into the world economy. A newly-competitive Argentina increased exports by 120% between 2002 and 2006.It\u2019s hard to imagine Greece copying that performance. Tourism is already 18% of the economy, so probably can\u2019t double as it almost did in Argentina. The poorer quality of the land makes an agricultural boom harder. Greece\u2019s biggest export (surprisingly) is refined petroleum, which is priced in dollars. And its biggest export market is Germany \u2013 \u201cpossibly problematic post a debt default\u201d, notes Leaviss dryly.His common-sense conclusion is that countries that thrived after devaluation (Canada and Sweden are other examples) had trading partners that were growing strongly. \u201cGreece does not have that luxury, nor an economy that can respond quickly to increased export competitiveness,\u201d concludes Leaviss. Note, too, that the Argentinian revival looks less impressive these days with real growth at just 0.5%. They\u2019re all good points, even if life inside the eurozone for Greece is also hellish.Here\u2019s an investment oddity: a company with a mammoth dividend yield of 9.5% and an intention, which most of its City followers think credible, to keep annual payments to shareholders rising in line with inflation, at a minimum.What\u2019s the catch with Infinis Energy? There are two. First, half its business is onshore wind farms and new energy secretary Amber Rudd supposedly hates the things; yesterday she said she would honour the Conservatives\u2019 pledge to kill current subsidies for onshore wind a year early. Second, the dominant shareholder is Guy Hands\u2019 Terra Firma, which has been saying for six months it might sell its 68.6% stake.These are serious worries \u2013 thus the one-quarter decline in Infinis\u2019s share price since flotation in 2013.But perhaps Rudd\u2019s war on onshore subsidies is not as damaging for Infinis as it seems. She plans to grant a \u201cgrace period\u201d to allow projects with planning permission to proceed. This is not a token concession either. She\u2019s talking \u201cup to 5.2GW\u201d of new on-shore wind capacity, which could mean another 3,000 turbines in the UK, on top of the 5,000 already turning (usually). Infinis\u2019s two big new projects in Scotland, adding 109MW to the company\u2019s current 274MW, should still be OK.Admittedly, there\u2019s a question mark over what Infinis does thereafter. A new contracts for difference subsidy regime arrives in 2017. Will onshore wind get a fair crack? In theory it should: onshore wind is cheaper than offshore variety, letalone grand projects like the Swansea Bay tidal lagoon. Plus, the UK\u2019s renewable energy targets will almost certainly rise after the Paris climate summit in September. On the other hand, it\u2019s hard to know what the government\u2019s plan to give local communities \u201cthe final say\u201d on windfarm applications will mean in practice.The other half of Infinis is unaffected \u2013 it extracts gas from landfill sites to generate electricity. There is little growth in that business since nobody is building new landfill sites, but the cashflows look extremely solid. They are the main source of comfort on the dividend.Cautious investors, understandably, would steer clear of a stock where the main shareholder is eyeing an exit. But, if you think Rudd has thrown only a medium-sized spanner in the turbines, Infinis is an intriguing stock at that dividend yield.Fitbit makes profits \u2013 net income was $132m last year \u2013 so it came to market in better shape than some Wall Street technology flotations. Even so, a 50% surge in the share price on day one, carrying the company\u2019s market value to $6bn, is hard to fathom.The company leads the market for fitness trackers, which probably aren\u2019t a fad. Fitbit is even able to shift its top-of-the-range versions at $250 a pop. But competitors are arriving in droves to this \u201cwearables\u201d market, from Apple to Google to Chinese tech firms. It\u2019s hard to believe profit margins will continue to be so good forever. Fitbit is now worth about six times this year\u2019s expected revenues. Too much, too soon.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "Business", "Currencies", "Economics", "Europe", "European Central Bank", "European Union", "European monetary union", "World news", "European banks", "Financial crisis", "Banking", "Financial sector"], "title": "Would an Argentina-style cure work for Greece? Probably not"},{"date": "2015-06-08T17:11:50Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Chiara Paez was 14 years old. She was a few weeks pregnant. On May 11, after a three-day search, her body was found buried in the garden of her boyfriend\u2019s house. He was 16. Chiara had been beaten to death after having been forced to take medication to terminate her pregnancy. Her boyfriend, who confessed to the crime, had been helped by his mother.A couple of months earlier, the body of Daiana Garcia, 19, was found by the roadside. Her remains were inside a rubbish bag. The body of another young girl, Melina Romero, was found a few metres away from a waste-processing plant last year. She had gone missing after celebrating her 17th birthday at a dance club. In another case, the body of Angeles Rawson, 16, was found inside a rubbish-compacting machine. All were victims of gender violence; and the list goes on.Although official statistics are lacking, respected NGOs in this country \u2013 by compiling media reports \u2013 have calculated that a woman is killed every 30 hours because of gender violence. In the past seven years, more than 1,800 women have been killed in such circumstances. Given the absence of official reporting on femicide, this number is likely to be just the tip of the iceberg.Where once these gender crimes, in most instances against a partner or former partner, were likely to be committed in domestic settings, in many recent cases they have made a leap into the public sphere \u2013 into coffee shops and classrooms. \u201cMacho\u201d gender violence has taken on perverse new forms and entered new spaces in Argentina.Questions abound but there is one that rules over the rest: are more crimes being committed, or is it that they have become more visible?Whatever the answer, it was on the day they discovered Ciara\u2019s body that the idea to demonstrate was born; to take to the streets and shout \u201cstop femicide\u201d. The seed was a tweet in which Marcela Ojeda, a radio journalist, challenged women across the country with a phrase that is already historic: \u201cThey are killing us: Aren\u2019t we going to do anything?\u201dSome of us decided to do something. We protested, rallying around the slogan and hashtag #NiUnaMenos (\u201cNotOneLess\u201d, meaning we must not lose one more woman to violence).The main march was to the congress in the capital city of Buenos Aires, where I and the other female organisers were astounded at the size of the crowd. Groups of women from outside the city arrived bearing photos of their relatives, slain victims of femicide. Some of them yelled their disappointment at the failure of the police and the courts to respond adequately. \u201cI don\u2019t want you to tell me how to dress,\u201d read one of the handwritten placards.For the three weeks before, a group of female journalists, intellectuals and activists had come together, explaining to others why we needed to march. We underlined that Argentina has comprehensive anti-gender violence legislation, but the law has not been fully implemented. Budgets need to be assigned. Security forces and justice officials need to be trained in how to deal with women who wish to report violent partners. An official register of femicide cases needs to be established.We asked actors, television hosts and friends in showbiz to help. They each posed for a photo holding a sign reading #NiUnaMenos. Then, anonymous men and women, groups of friends, workmates, students, families and young children started doing the same. Politicians also joined, but only after the hashtag and the issue were already on everybody\u2019s lips.Before we knew it, in homes, schools, shops, on television, everywhere, people were talking about the issue. Young children grasped the concept and could explain to others that #NiUnaMenos was a campaign to eradicate violence against women \u2013 proof that our bid to raise awareness was beginning to bear fruit.When we started to promote our cause we were just a handful of women. But soon we were hundreds and then thousands.From the beginning we knew that what we wanted was not, or at least not exclusively, some form of collective venting of frustration. We wanted to ask for concrete action, not only by politicans and the justice system, but also by other sectors of civil society such as the media. We wanted criticism regarding the way these cases are presented, often focusing on the lifestyle of the victim, revictimising them again and again because of the way they dressed, the men they dated or the kinds of photos they posted on Facebook.And it was also a call for solidarity. We need to help woman experiencing domestic violence out of the spiral.The silent cry of women who suffer or have suffered domestic violence broke out of hundreds of thousands of throats that afternoon. This wave of violence must be stopped. Not because it is a noble cause. It\u2019s something much more basic. It is a human right.Barely 24 hours after the march ended we had the first piece of good news. Supreme court justice Elena Highton announced a registry of femicides would be set up at the court. The office of President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner set off a series of tweets emphasising her government\u2019s concern. Meanwhile, the government\u2019s Human Rights Secretariat announced it, too, would start to compile statistics on femicides.Most important of all, judging by the massive turnout at the march, the majority of us now understand that looking away is no longer an option.\u2022 Hinde Pomeraniec is one of the 10 women journalists who, without personally knowing each other previously, came together via Twitter in mid-May to organise last Wednesday\u2019s mass demonstration against gender violence in Buenos Aires.", "tags": ["Women", "Life and style", "Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Domestic violence", "Society", "Gender"], "title": "How Argentina rose up against the murder of women"},{"date": "2015-04-29T19:01:46Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Pope Francis has ordered the Vatican to open its files on Argentina\u2019s military dictatorship, a move that could help the families of thousands of victims of the military regime finally discover the fate of their loved ones.\u201cThis is the pope\u2019s wish \u2013 for something to be done \u2013 so he has asked the secretariat of state to take charge of it, and work has already begun on declassifying the Vatican archives related to Argentina\u2019s dictatorship,\u201d Father Guillermo Karcher, an Argentinian priest who is a close aide of the pope, said in an interview with a Buenos Aires radio station. Related: New pope's role during Argentina's military era disputed During the 1976-83 dictatorship, 20,000 people were made to \u201cdisappear\u201d by the Argentinian authorities, who saw them as subversives. The Vatican collected a large amount of information on these cases, principally through the papal nuncio\u2019s office in Buenos Aires.The pope acceded to the opening of the Vatican archives at a meeting last week with Lita Boitano, the 83-year-old mother of two sons who were \u201cdisappeared\u201d during the dictatorship.\u201cPope Francis told me the Vatican will open its archives for that period,\u201d Boitano, president of the Argentinian human rights group Familiares (\u201cRelatives\u201d), said after her meeting with the pope in Rome.The pope \u2013 who was born in Buenos Aires \u2013 arranged a meeting between Boitano and Monsignor Giuseppe Laterza, an official in the Vatican secretariat of state, at which they also discussed the possibility of the Vatican issuing a statement of self-criticism regarding its role during Argentina\u2019s dictatorship, Boitano said.The most important documents to be released could be the reports wired to Rome by the Vatican\u2019s then ambassador to Buenos Aires, Monsignor Pio Laghi, who met regularly with the military chiefs. Laghi even played tennis on a regular basis with the navy\u2019s then commander-in-chief, Admiral Emilio Massera, considered to have been one of the bloodiest members of the three-man military junta that ruled Argentina with an iron fist.The Vatican also collected information from victims\u2019 families, who turned to Monsignor Laghi for help. The nuncio\u2019s office kept files on the thousands of disappearances reported by relatives and pleaded to the military for clemency, often acting as a go-between in specific cases.\u201cIt\u2019s not a promise, it\u2019s a certainty, and it is extremely important,\u201d said Graciela Lois in Buenos Aires, another member of Familiares who lost her husband Ricardo to the dictatorship. \u201cThis also shows a side of Pope Francis that not many realise is there,\u201d Lois added. \u201cYou must remember that during the dictatorship he was close friends with Esther Careaga, one of the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo [the mothers of the disappeared who confronted the military about the abuction of their children].\u201dThe pope, then Jorge Bergoglio and head of the Jesuit order in Argentina during the military regime, maintained his friendship with Careaga despite her revolutionary ideals and her harsh criticism of the regime. Careaga was finally \u201cdisappeared\u201d herself in December 1977 when the regime cracked down on the Mothers of Plaza de Mayo.\u201cIt was a very positive meeting,\u201d said Boitano regarding her meeting with Francis. \u201cHe promised us he would take care of the matter. The church had the exact data on the disappearances and the Vatican is looking for it.\u201d\u201cThe collection of the material has been concluded and there is a system to scan and digitise it,\u201d Monsignor Laterza of the secretariat of state told the Italian newsagency Ansa. \u201cIt could be available to the public in one year.\u201dSpeaking to the Guardian from Rome today where she continues meeting with Vatican officials, Boitano recalled how in her years in exile in Europe during the dictatorship she became aware first-hand of how much information on the \u201cdesparecidos\u201d the Vatican had.\u201cIn 1979 I was in Rome and had asked for a meeting with Pope John Paul II, which I didn\u2019t get, but I got a meeting with a Vatican official. When I gave him my name, he left and quickly returned with a file card with my name on it. It had all the details of my two kids and the exact dates of their kidnappings, they knew exactly who I was.\u201dDuring her one-and-half-hour meeting with Laterza, Boitano pleaded for an immediate opening of the archives after Laterza told her it would take at least one year till the work is completed. \u201cI told him I am 83 years old and that most of the mothers and fathers of the \u201cdisappeared\u201d who are still left alive are over 80 years old as well. We can\u2019t afford to wait any longer.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "Pope Francis", "Americas", "The papacy", "World news"], "title": "Pope Francis orders Vatican to open files on Argentina dictatorship"},{"date": "2015-04-21T15:29:56Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner has gone on the offensive against her critics by claiming she is the target of a conspiracy between US \u201cvulture funds,\u201d Jewish community groups and the prosecutor Alberto Nisman, who died in suspicious circumstances earlier this year.In a lengthy column published on her official website, Fern\u00e1ndez alleges a close connection between pro-Israeli groups and individuals who, she says, were plotting to undermine her efforts to secure closer ties to Iran.\u201cWe are facing a global modus operandi, which not only severely injures national sovereignty, but also generates international political operations of any type, shape and colour,\u201d she writes in a post entitled \u201cEverything has to do with everything.\u201d  Related: Spies, cover-ups and the mysterious death of an Argentinian prosecutor Her comments follow massive street demonstrations over the death of Nisman, who was found with a bullet in his brain the day before he was due to allege in Congress that the president was covering up alleged Iranian involvement in the 1994 bombing of the Amia Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires because she wanted a trade deal with Tehran.Fern\u00e1ndez at first claimed that Nisman\u2019s death was a suicide, then stated that he was most likely killed by rogue elements in the secret service who were plotting against her. The investigation into his death, meanwhile, remains bogged down in court, where conflicting forensic tests suggest it could have been either murder or suicide. Related: Profile: Argentina's nemesis, hedge fund manager Paul Singer The president\u2019s latest column adds a new twist by alleging links between Nisman and US fund manager Paul Singer, who has been locked in a decade-long financial battle to collect $1.5bn from Argentina on defaulted foreign bonds held by an affiliate NML Capital.Fern\u00e1ndez says Nisman told leaders of the Delegation of Argentine Israeli Associations (Daia): \u201cIf necessary, Paul Singer will help us.\u201d This is alleged to have happened two years ago when Nisman lobbied the body \u2013 which represents the country\u2019s Jews \u2013 to mount a legal challenge a memorandum of understanding between Argentina and Iran.Nisman and his supporters alleged that the memorandum was part of a conspiracy to cover up Iran\u2019s involvement in the bombing in exchange for a trade deal \u2013 a charge denied by both Iran and Fern\u00e1ndez. The president\u2019s allegations that Singer supported her critics were based on an article in the government-friendly newspaper P\u00e1gina 12 by Jorge Elbaum, a former executive director of Daia. Elbaum claimed Singer was funding opposition to the Iran-Argentina deal in Buenos Aires and Washington. The report says Singer also donated $3.6m between 2008 and 2014 to the Foundation for Defence of Democracies, a thinktank whose executive director, Mark Dubowitz, claims to be a friend of Nisman\u2019s.Fern\u00e1ndez said she saw parallels between these activities and the Israeli government\u2019s support for US members of Congress who aimed to block the recent US-Iran nuclear deal. In both cases, she said lobbyists and covert agencies organised financial attacks and media smear operations designed to destabilised governments. \u201cAny similarity is not coincidence,\u201d she wrote. \u201cEverything has to do with geopolitics and international power. Sometimes their effects can be on global peace, such as preventing the possibility of an agreement between the US and other powers with Iran on nuclear matters. Or those effects can be collateral, such as making impossible an agreement that would contribute bring truth and justice for victims of the Amia, after 21 years.\u201dA spokesman for Singer\u2019s hedge fund Elliott Management denied the acccusations.\u201cThe allegation that Mr Singer had any contact whatsoever with Mr Nisman is categorically false. This is just another desperate attempt by Cristina Kirchner to blame creditors for her administration\u2019s multiplying scandals and failed economic policies,\u201d the spokesman said. Jewish leaders also responded angrily to the president\u2019s claims. \u201cIt\u2019s a lie,\u201d said Daia\u2019s vice-president Waldo Wolff. \u201cIt\u2019s terrible, it\u2019s incredible. If she believes this to be true she should present the evidence in court.\u201dWolff said that Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s charges are \u201ca smokescreen\u201d to cover up Nisman\u2019s death.But the legal case against Fern\u00e1ndez, inspired by Nisman\u2019s investigation, appeared to have suffered an almost fatal blow on Monday, when a prosecutor dismissed claims that the president helped shield Iranian officials allegedly behind the 1994 bombing.Citing insufficient evidence to warrant further investigation, prosecutor Javier De Luca said: \u201cThere has been no crime.\u201dThe case had earlier been rejected by both a federal judge and an appeals court.Opinion polls show that about 70% of Argentinians believe Nisman was murdered \u2013 but that his death will never be solved.This article was amended on 21 April 2015 to delete a reference that erroneously stated that the Foundation for the Defence of Democracies had produced several papers criticising Argentina\u2019s policy on vulture funds and Tehran.", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina president: US 'vulture funds' backed Nisman before his death"},{"date": "2015-04-10T08:53:06Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Tensions between Britain and Argentina over the Falkland Islands have escalated after they summoned each other\u2019s ambassadors.John Freeman, the British ambassador, was called in by Argentina\u2019s deputy foreign minister, Eduardo Zuain, who is said to have demanded Freeman account for the \u201csilence of the British government\u201d after allegations made by the US whistleblower Edward Snowden last week that British agents spied on Argentina between 2006 and 2011.In a meeting in Buenos Aires on Thursday, Zuain is said to have warned Freeman that Argentina would prosecute oil companies working in waters off the Falklands, and repeated complaints about British plans to boost defences on the islands.A Foreign Office spokesman confirmed that Freeman was summoned on Thursday, but declined to comment further.On Wednesday the Foreign Office called in Argentina\u2019s ambassador to London over comments made by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner on 2 April, the 33rd anniversary of the start of the Falklands war. Fern\u00e1ndez reportedly said: \u201cInternational law and dialogue, not militarisation, are the path to a reunion and sovereignty. We will see the islands form part of our territory again. It\u2019s not just wishful thinking.\u201dThe remarks were made in response to the announcement by Michael Fallon, the defence secretary, that two Chinook helicopters and an upgraded surface-to-air missile system would be part of a new defence package for the Falkland Islands.The Foreign Office said: \u201cThe UK has no doubt about its sovereignty over the Falkland Islands and surrounding maritime areas, nor about the Falkland Islanders\u2019 right to decide their own future.\u201cWe object strongly to recent statements by the Argentine president and the Argentine ambassador to London and so summoned the ambassador to account for these.\u201dLast week Britain dismissed the threat of prosecution against three oil and gas firms. The companies \u2013 Premier Oil, Rockhopper Exploration and Falkland Oil & Gas \u2013 announced they had found oil and gas in a remote field north of the islands.In 2013, Falkland Islanders took part in a referendum, voting by 1,513 to three to remain a British overseas territory.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Foreign policy", "UK news", "World news", "Americas", "Politics"], "title": "Britain and Argentina summon each other's ambassadors in Falklands row"},{"date": "2015-06-19T23:57:08Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Their country has endured military dictatorship, economic collapse and a particularly vituperative brand of politics, so perhaps it is not surprising that Argentinians should still find solace in the oldest of pleasures: curling up with a good book. Related: Twelve of the world's most beautiful bookshops - in pictures The country\u2019s capital Buenos Aires has more bookshops per inhabitant than any other city in the world, according to a recent study by the World Cities Culture Forum.With a population of around 2.8 million, Buenos Aires has at least 734 bookstores \u2013 roughly 25 bookshops for every 100,000 inhabitants. Worldwide, only Hong Kong comes close, with 22 bookshops per 100,000, followed by Madrid in a distant third with just 16 and compared to a mere 10 bookshops for every 100,000 for London.Gabriela Adamo, who until recently was the president of the city\u2019s annual book fair \u2013 an event which draws over 1 million visitors each year \u2013 says Argentina\u2019s love affair with the book is related to the wave of mass immigration in the late 19th and early 20th centuries. A century ago, Buenos Aires was the shining capital of one of the wealthiest countries of the world. European immigrants poured into Buenos Aires, creating a multicultural environment in which culture and the arts thrived.At one stage Buenos Aires boasted two English-language newspapers, various German-language papers (including at one stage a pro-Nazi paper, an anti-Nazi one and a Jewish newspaper) along with a plethora of Spanish-language newspapers, magazines and literary and arts publications. \u201cThe book as an object became a cultural symbol back then. It\u2019s something that persists today,\u201d said Adamo.But contemporary economics also plays a role: books are exempt from Argentina\u2019s standard sales tax \u2013 a whopping 21% on most goods \u2013 and internet sales and electronic book readers have yet to make inroads on the local publishing market. Amazon does not have an Argentinian site and import restrictions make it a bureaucratic nightmare to purchase books from international internet sellers.\u201cArgentinians still prefer to come in and browse for books,\u201d said Antonio Dalto, business manager of the Ateneo Grand Splendid bookshop. \u201cWe have a website for selling books, but it only draws a small percentage of readers. As a matter of fact, they seem to use it more to select titles online, but then they come to buy the actual book here at the shop.\u201dThat is perhaps unsurprising, considering the grandeur of the shop\u2019s setting: opened as a theatre in 1919 and converted into a giant bookstore 15 years ago, the Grand Splendid still boasts the beautiful ceiling frescoes painted by an Italian artist almost a century ago. Around 1 million customers visit it each year to browse through its gargantuan 21,000 square feet showroom, or withdraw into one of the old theatre boxes perched for a leisurely read.\u201cCulture is very important to the people of Buenos Aires. Even young kids read books, we see them here every day. Books for teenagers are one of our biggest sellers,\u201d said Dalto.Publishers and booksellers say that the city\u2019s book market is distinctly catholic in taste, immune to fads or fashion. \u201cThere\u2019s a very particular kind of reader here, with wide and varied demand,\u201d said Adamo.Argentina is one of the most prolific book publishers in Latin America, and the number of titles published has grown steadily each year, from 16,092 in 2004 to 28,010 last year. The total number of books printed in 2014 was 123m.Publishing experts have also linked the country\u2019s love for reading to its obsession with psychoanalysis: Argentina has more psychologists per inhabitant than any other country in the world, and according to Virginia Ungar, a member of the Buenos Aires Psychoanalytical Association, the habitual introspection of therapy makes Argentinians ideal readers. \u201cPsychoanalysis, reading and the arts in general are all linked because they are all an inquiry into the depths of personality. Both literature and psychoanalysis work with the word,\u201d said Ungar, who is president-elect of the International Psychoanalytical Association founded by Sigmund Freud in 1910.It is not only the market for new books which is thriving: Buenos Aires also has a total of 102 rare and secondhand bookshops, far outranking London with only 68 or Berlin, with only six, and only third in terms of secondhand bookshops per inhabitant after Johannesburg and Tokyo, most of them congregated along Avenida Corrientes.The city\u2019s unusual hours \u2013 people often meet for dinner at 11pm, and shops stay open until after midnight \u2013 also play a role, said Ignacio Iraola, general manager of the Argentinian branch of the Spanish publishing behemoth Planeta. \u201cBuenos Aires is a city that wakes up late and the day stretches out into the early hours,\u201d he said. \u201cAvenida Corrientes is like a long, open bookshop that never sleeps.\u201dAway from the city centre, local bookshops also thrive. Tucked away in the bohemian neighbourhood of Villa Crespo is La Internacional Argentina, an independent store which specialises in first editions of Latin American authors. On a recent evening, its owners Francisco Garamona and Nicol\u00e1s Moguilevsky, both thirtysomething, were ending the day with some bottles of red Argentinian wine in the back room where they run Mansalva, a speciality press that publishes many first-time novelists and poets, as well as art books by Argentinian painters.\u201cIf this was a job we would have got bored by now and quit \u2013 our existence is a miracle,\u201d says Garamona. Although the bookshop and Mansalva press barely scrape by, they have been in business for 15 years now, a testament to the unquenchable thirst of the city for books.\u201cWe hold a fair every two months on a Saturday on the sidewalk here,\u201d says Moguilevsky. \u201cIt\u2019s really surprising, sometimes up to 500 people come, many of them young kids. And they usually walk away with two or three books that they get here for the price they would pay for just one at one of the big bookshops downtown.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "Books", "Booksellers", "Culture", "World news", "Americas", "Psychology", "Literary trips"], "title": "A novel oasis: why Argentina is the bookshop capital of the world"},{"date": "2015-09-02T14:19:33Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Gabriel Juncos is rolling down a sidewalk in C\u00f3rdoba in his wheelchair, explaining his mayoral campaign plans, when one of the wheels gets stuck in a hole in the pavement. Two pedestrians pass him in a huff. Undeterred, Juncos manoeuvres the chair out of the rut and keeps talking. He\u2019s clearly seen much worse.Two blocks later, one of the other candidates in Juncos\u2019s party also runs into trouble. A ramp at the curb doesn\u2019t extend low enough for wheelchairs. \u201cI\u2019m going to take the street,\u201d Miguel Angel Marquez yells, proceeding to dodge cars and buses as he heads for the next available ramp.\u201cYou see?\u201d Juncos says. \u201cThis is exactly why we have to run in this election.\u201d With many unpaved roads, a mostly inaccessible fleet of buses and potholes galore, C\u00f3rdoba is one of the most difficult cities in Argentina for people with disabilities. So Juncos and his colleagues are using a political strategy that has never been tried before in the country, and likely anywhere in the world. They have formed a political ticket made up entirely of people who are either disabled, or specialists in disabilities.C\u00f3rdoba is Argentina\u2019s second largest city, and one that has forged a distinct identity from Buenos Aires, the country\u2019s capital. While Buenos Aires is known for its more European culture and architecture, C\u00f3rdoba has the look and feel of an outsized frontier town. Founded in 1571 and originally populated primarily by Jesuit missionaries, the city grew in the 19th and 20th centuries on the back of a booming agricultural sector. Today, residents of C\u00f3rdoba pride themselves on their unique accent, outgoing character and rowdy nightlife. Many even shun the tango, more closely associated with Buenos Aires, in favour of the city\u2019s energetic home-grown music and dance style: cuarteto.But despite its occasionally boisterous culture, C\u00f3rdoba remains firmly rooted in its conservative religious origins. Many are resistant to challenging established social roles \u2013 which has been especially detrimental to the disabled, according to Martin Carranza Torres, president of Juncos\u2019 Liberal Republican party. \u201cMany people here would rather leave the disabled on the steps of the cathedral begging for money than let them take charge of their own lives,\u201d he says.The Liberal Republican party would seem an unlikely backer of for a disability campaign: in Argentina, the term \u201cliberal\u201d refers to an ideology closer to libertarianism. \u201cMany people were surprised that a ticket like we\u2019ve put together didn\u2019t come from a socialist party,\u201d says Carranza Torres. \u201cBut it makes perfect sense. What we\u2019re proposing is an urban policy that allows disabled people to be more self sufficient, more free.\u201dAfter C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s provincial election on 5 July, Carranza Torres heard from a fellow campaigner, Horacio Magnin, who is hearing impaired. Magnin and his long-time friend Juncos were sick of lobbying the city government to little effect. They wanted to change things from the inside \u2013 and Carranza Torres convinced his party to back them. The 14 candidates will appear on a single ticket for C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s 13 September mayoral election, under the name Tenemos Mucho Para Dar (We Have Much to Give). An attorney who was left paralysed after a swimming accident when he was 21, Juncos earned a law degree from his wheelchair, and is joined on the ticket by his fellow law student Leonor Salguero. Others include Norma Sanchez, president of Derechos Sobre Ruedas (\u201cRights on Wheels\u201d) and Martin Aguirre, who made headlines when he blocked a bus with his wheelchair after the driver refused to lower the ramp. Some of the candidates share the party\u2019s libertarian outlook, others do not. But on one thing they all agree: C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s record for disabled accessibility is dismal.\u201cArgentina\u2019s government has one of the most comprehensive disability laws,\u201d says Salguero. \u201cBut much of the law depends on the willingness of each city to comply. And in C\u00f3rdoba, sadly, much of that law hasn\u2019t been carried out.\u201dThe group\u2019s biggest concern is access to transportation. The mayor, Ram\u00f3n Mestre, says 300 of the city\u2019s 700 buses are accessible for the disabled; the group say that figure is misleading.\u201cMany aren\u2019t low-floor buses, making them harder to access for people in motorised wheelchairs,\u201d says Sanchez. \u201cOthers simply hang signs in the window saying their ramps are out of order.\u201d Other problems include frequently cracked sidewalks and buildings that often do not comply with accessibility codes. In addition, many parts of the city still do not have paved roads, making life harder for people without disabilities, but nearly impossible for the disabled.The team promise to renovate the city\u2019s bus fleet and rigorously enforce building accessibility. In addition, they want to ensure that a current initiative to replace sewers and sidewalks is used to remove tiled sidewalks and other surfaces that crack easily.Critics question whether this focus on disabilities would allow them to maintain a balanced approach to city governance. Juncos counters that the group has detailed proposals in other areas, such as education, public health and policing. Some of their proposals aim to improve life for people with and without disabilities alike: for example, paving all the city\u2019s roads, and making more of the city\u2019s documentation procedures available online. They also feel that being disabled would make them more effective as public servants. \u201cSo many politicians in C\u00f3rdoba don\u2019t listen to their constituents,\u201d says Celeste Meana, one of the candidates. \u201cWe don\u2019t think that way. We know what it\u2019s like to rely on people. We know what it\u2019s like to ask for help.\u201dOf the 13 candidates vying for mayor, incumbent Mestre is the frontrunner: his affiliation with Mauricio Macri, mayor of Buenos Aires and presidential candidate, has allowed him to draw on the vast campaign resources of Macri\u2019s PRO party. While Mestre\u2019s campaign for re-election calls for important reforms, such as expanding the city\u2019s fledgling BRT system, electric trolleybus lines and bike lane network, disabled access seems to be off the agenda. Mestre\u2019s office did not respond to requests for comment. Related: Disabled man takes on Tube challenge Other candidates are taking the issue more seriously. Luis Juez, mayor from 2003 to 2007 and Mestre\u2019s main opponent, has plans to expand the disabilities office, which he says Mestre has \u201cvirtually abandoned\u201d. He agrees with many of Juncos\u2019s proposals. \u201cOnly 10% of the city\u2019s buses are low-floor buses,\u201d he says. \u201cWe need to change that.\u201dJuncos is not likely to win the majority needed to become mayor, though he is hopeful he can earn the approximately 20,000 votes needed to earn a seat on the council. But, win or lose, his group remain committed to improving life in C\u00f3rdoba. \u201cA city with better access for the disabled is a fairer city, a better city,\u201d he says. \u201cNot just for the disabled, but for everyone.\u201dFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "Disability", "Society", "Mayoral elections", "Politics", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "The all-disabled party shaking up politics in C\u00f3rdoba, Argentina"},{"date": "2015-09-02T14:19:33Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Gabriel Juncos is rolling down a sidewalk in C\u00f3rdoba in his wheelchair, explaining his mayoral campaign plans, when one of the wheels gets stuck in a hole in the pavement. Two pedestrians pass him in a huff. Undeterred, Juncos manoeuvres the chair out of the rut and keeps talking. He\u2019s clearly seen much worse.Two blocks later, one of the other candidates in Juncos\u2019s party also runs into trouble. A ramp at the curb doesn\u2019t extend low enough for wheelchairs. \u201cI\u2019m going to take the street,\u201d Miguel Angel Marquez yells, proceeding to dodge cars and buses as he heads for the next available ramp.\u201cYou see?\u201d Juncos says. \u201cThis is exactly why we have to run in this election.\u201d With many unpaved roads, a mostly inaccessible fleet of buses and potholes galore, C\u00f3rdoba is one of the most difficult cities in Argentina for people with disabilities. So Juncos and his colleagues are using a political strategy that has never been tried before in the country, and likely anywhere in the world. They have formed a political ticket made up entirely of people who are either disabled, or specialists in disabilities.C\u00f3rdoba is Argentina\u2019s second largest city, and one that has forged a distinct identity from Buenos Aires, the country\u2019s capital. While Buenos Aires is known for its more European culture and architecture, C\u00f3rdoba has the look and feel of an outsized frontier town. Founded in 1571 and originally populated primarily by Jesuit missionaries, the city grew in the 19th and 20th centuries on the back of a booming agricultural sector. Today, residents of C\u00f3rdoba pride themselves on their unique accent, outgoing character and rowdy nightlife. Many even shun the tango, more closely associated with Buenos Aires, in favour of the city\u2019s energetic home-grown music and dance style: cuarteto.But despite its occasionally boisterous culture, C\u00f3rdoba remains firmly rooted in its conservative religious origins. Many are resistant to challenging established social roles \u2013 which has been especially detrimental to the disabled, according to Martin Carranza Torres, president of Juncos\u2019 Liberal Republican party. \u201cMany people here would rather leave the disabled on the steps of the cathedral begging for money than let them take charge of their own lives,\u201d he says.The Liberal Republican party would seem an unlikely backer of for a disability campaign: in Argentina, the term \u201cliberal\u201d refers to an ideology closer to libertarianism. \u201cMany people were surprised that a ticket like we\u2019ve put together didn\u2019t come from a socialist party,\u201d says Carranza Torres. \u201cBut it makes perfect sense. What we\u2019re proposing is an urban policy that allows disabled people to be more self sufficient, more free.\u201dAfter C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s provincial election on 5 July, Carranza Torres heard from a fellow campaigner, Horacio Magnin, who is hearing impaired. Magnin and his long-time friend Juncos were sick of lobbying the city government to little effect. They wanted to change things from the inside \u2013 and Carranza Torres convinced his party to back them. The 14 candidates will appear on a single ticket for C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s 13 September mayoral election, under the name Tenemos Mucho Para Dar (We Have Much to Give). An attorney who was left paralysed after a swimming accident when he was 21, Juncos earned a law degree from his wheelchair, and is joined on the ticket by his fellow law student Leonor Salguero. Others include Norma Sanchez, president of Derechos Sobre Ruedas (\u201cRights on Wheels\u201d) and Martin Aguirre, who made headlines when he blocked a bus with his wheelchair after the driver refused to lower the ramp. Some of the candidates share the party\u2019s libertarian outlook, others do not. But on one thing they all agree: C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s record for disabled accessibility is dismal.\u201cArgentina\u2019s government has one of the most comprehensive disability laws,\u201d says Salguero. \u201cBut much of the law depends on the willingness of each city to comply. And in C\u00f3rdoba, sadly, much of that law hasn\u2019t been carried out.\u201dThe group\u2019s biggest concern is access to transportation. The mayor, Ram\u00f3n Mestre, says 300 of the city\u2019s 700 buses are accessible for the disabled; the group say that figure is misleading.\u201cMany aren\u2019t low-floor buses, making them harder to access for people in motorised wheelchairs,\u201d says Sanchez. \u201cOthers simply hang signs in the window saying their ramps are out of order.\u201d Other problems include frequently cracked sidewalks and buildings that often do not comply with accessibility codes. In addition, many parts of the city still do not have paved roads, making life harder for people without disabilities, but nearly impossible for the disabled.The team promise to renovate the city\u2019s bus fleet and rigorously enforce building accessibility. In addition, they want to ensure that a current initiative to replace sewers and sidewalks is used to remove tiled sidewalks and other surfaces that crack easily.Critics question whether this focus on disabilities would allow them to maintain a balanced approach to city governance. Juncos counters that the group has detailed proposals in other areas, such as education, public health and policing. Some of their proposals aim to improve life for people with and without disabilities alike: for example, paving all the city\u2019s roads, and making more of the city\u2019s documentation procedures available online. They also feel that being disabled would make them more effective as public servants. \u201cSo many politicians in C\u00f3rdoba don\u2019t listen to their constituents,\u201d says Celeste Meana, one of the candidates. \u201cWe don\u2019t think that way. We know what it\u2019s like to rely on people. We know what it\u2019s like to ask for help.\u201dOf the 13 candidates vying for mayor, incumbent Mestre is the frontrunner: his affiliation with Mauricio Macri, mayor of Buenos Aires and presidential candidate, has allowed him to draw on the vast campaign resources of Macri\u2019s PRO party. While Mestre\u2019s campaign for re-election calls for important reforms, such as expanding the city\u2019s fledgling BRT system, electric trolleybus lines and bike lane network, disabled access seems to be off the agenda. Mestre\u2019s office did not respond to requests for comment. Related: Disabled man takes on Tube challenge Other candidates are taking the issue more seriously. Luis Juez, mayor from 2003 to 2007 and Mestre\u2019s main opponent, has plans to expand the disabilities office, which he says Mestre has \u201cvirtually abandoned\u201d. He agrees with many of Juncos\u2019s proposals. \u201cOnly 10% of the city\u2019s buses are low-floor buses,\u201d he says. \u201cWe need to change that.\u201dJuncos is not likely to win the majority needed to become mayor, though he is hopeful he can earn the approximately 20,000 votes needed to earn a seat on the council. But, win or lose, his group remain committed to improving life in C\u00f3rdoba. \u201cA city with better access for the disabled is a fairer city, a better city,\u201d he says. \u201cNot just for the disabled, but for everyone.\u201dFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "Disability", "Society", "Mayoral elections", "Politics", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "The all-disabled party shaking up politics in C\u00f3rdoba, Argentina"},{"date": "2015-07-05T04:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "F\u00e9lix D\u00edaz stands before a line of colourful plastic tents on one of the broad strips of land running down the centre of the Avenida 9 de Julio \u2013 one of the busiest thoroughfares in the Argentinian capital.\u201cWe have many gods,\u201d he says. \u201cThe god of nature, the god of water, the god of air, but we no longer have the land we shared with them. They\u2019ve taken our gods and now they\u2019re taking what little is left of our land.\u201dD\u00edaz, the chieftain of the Qom indigenous tribe, is leading the fight for the return of his people\u2019s ancestral lands in the distant northern province of Formosa. Together with representatives of the Pilag\u00e1, Wichi and Nivacl\u00e9 indigenous communities, the Qom activists have for the past five months camped out in central Buenos Aires to demand the return of their traditional territories. But his words are drowned out by the thunderous din of traffic \u2013 and his message has been actively ignored by government officials. Argentina is often thought of as a country of immigrants: most of the current population consider themselves to be descendants of southern Europeans who arrived between the mid-19th and early 20th centuries. D\u00edaz is attempting to change that narrative by making visible the displaced indigenous minority and reaffirming their rights \u2013 and their claims to lost territory.\u201cArgentina\u2019s indigenous people suffer racism, discrimination and violence,\u201d says Nobel peace prize winner Adolfo P\u00e9rez Esquivel, who survived 14 months of torture and incarceration during the country\u2019s 1976-83 military dictatorship and is now leading a campaign for official recognition of indigenous leaders such as D\u00edaz.Far from responding to their demands, however, Argentina\u2019s government has responded by sending in the police. Riot police in armoured vehicles launched a 3am raid in a failed attempt to evict the protest camp.The attempted eviction was halted after the news went viral on social media. \u201cWe\u2019re not murderers, we\u2019re not delinquents, we\u2019re not corrupt,\u201d said D\u00edaz. \u201cWe just want our human rights respected and to be received by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner.\u201dFern\u00e1ndez has cast herself as a defender of human rights, throwing her political weight behind the trials against military officials of the dictatorship era, but her government has consistently disregarded the rights claimed by indigenous leaders such as D\u00edaz.\u201cThe government talks about human rights during the time of the dictatorship while it violates the rights of the indigenous people today,\u201d says P\u00e9rez Esquivel.P\u00e9rez Esquivel has the ear of a powerful ally: the former bishop of Buenos Aires. In 2013, he arranged a meeting between D\u00edaz and Pope Francis at the Vatican, and a striking photograph of the meeting between two white-clad leaders made front pages across Argentina. But even that media coup has failed to shake apparent public indifference to indigenous rights.That is why in February D\u00edaz brought his protest from Formosa, a steamy, subtropical poverty-stricken province, to this makeshift protest camp in bustling Buenos Aires.After five months, the plastic tents are looking ragged, the white plastic chairs are soiled and the modular toilets standing in the middle of the avenue look out of place. Few people stop to express solidarity. Two small girls run barefoot perilously close to the curb as oblivious motorists speed by.Part of the problem is that Fern\u00e1ndez refuses to recognize the results of a government-sponsored 2011 vote in which the 50,000-strong Qom community elected D\u00edaz as its representative to negotiate the land question. D\u00edaz defeated his opponent in an 80% landslide. But Fern\u00e1ndez dismisses D\u00edaz outright. \u201cThe Qom don\u2019t live in press conferences; they don\u2019t live on 9 de Julio avenue,\u201d she said two years ago regarding a previous protest on the same spot. \u201cThey live in Formosa.\u201dD\u00edaz counters: \u201cIn 2007 the government took away 2042 hectares [about 5,000 acres] of our ancestral lands,\u201d counters D\u00edaz. \u201cSince then, it has ignored all ourdemands.\u201cLosing land for us is like losing a body organ,\u201d he says. \u201cIt means deathto us if we don\u2019t have our land for physical and spiritual nourishment, for our ancestral medicine.\u201dArgentina\u2019s last population census in 2010 registered nearly 1 million people \u2013 about 2.38% of the total population of over 40 million \u2013 who consider themselves direct descendants of the nation\u2019s indigenous inhabitants.But the overall genetic makeup of Argentinians is more mixed than was oncebelieved. \u201cThe ancestry information markers we carry in our blood show thatgenetically Argentinians are about 70% European, 20% indigenous and 5%African,\u201d says Daniel Corach, director of the service of genetic digitaltracing at the University of Buenos Aires, who reached that conclusion basedon wide-ranging DNA testing throughout Argentina.But in the country\u2019s northern regions, some communities have less mixed ancestry, says Corach. Among the groups with the least European blood are the Wichi and Qom communities in Formosa. \u201cThere are over 30 native languages still spoken in Argentina today. And the economically dominant economic groups continue to displace those people even now, especially with the advent of extensive soy plantations, which have forced those native populations to resettle in urban areas,\u201d he said.The Qom people fiercely resisted Spanish colonial encroachment and attempts to convert them to Christianity. But their ecosystem was devastated when the province of Formosa came under Argentinian rule in 1876 after a war with neighbouring Paraguay.That ecosystem was destroyed by exploitation of the native quebracho tree, known for its tanin and its hard timber. And when the new white landowners turned to cotton production, the Qom people became the cheap seasonal workforce.Since the 1990s their situation has only deteriorated further. Industrial-style soy cultivation has accelerated deforestation. Communities have lost their lands to agribusiness and suffer health problems from fertilizers, pesticides and water poisoning. Father Francisco Nazar, a priest who left Buenos Aires to work amongst the Qom and the Wichi peoples in Formosa 44 years ago, sees D\u00edaz as Argentina\u2019s best hope for coming to terms with the existence of its indigenous communities. \u201cHe\u2019s imbued with the culture and spirituality of his ancestors, combined with a total belief in non-violence. He is a great man against very powerful enemies.\u201dAccording to P\u00e9rez Esquivel, the situation facing Argentina\u2019s indigenous people is dire. \u201cThey are the object of systematic persecution while their lands are handed over to big international firms for mining, oil, gold, strategic minerals, fracking. They\u2019re being driven out of their territories. They live like exiles in their own land.\u201dAlthough D\u00edaz and P\u00e9rez Esquivel continue pressing for a presidential response, they are not optimistic. \u201cI don\u2019t think the president is going to change on this. It\u2019s a political decision,\u201d says P\u00e9rez Esquivel.D\u00edaz adds: \u201cThey\u2019re killing us with indifference.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina indigenous chieftain leads fight to reclaim ancestral land"},{"date": "2015-09-02T14:19:33Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Gabriel Juncos is rolling down a sidewalk in C\u00f3rdoba in his wheelchair, explaining his mayoral campaign plans, when one of the wheels gets stuck in a hole in the pavement. Two pedestrians pass him in a huff. Undeterred, Juncos manoeuvres the chair out of the rut and keeps talking. He\u2019s clearly seen much worse.Two blocks later, one of the other candidates in Juncos\u2019s party also runs into trouble. A ramp at the curb doesn\u2019t extend low enough for wheelchairs. \u201cI\u2019m going to take the street,\u201d Miguel Angel Marquez yells, proceeding to dodge cars and buses as he heads for the next available ramp.\u201cYou see?\u201d Juncos says. \u201cThis is exactly why we have to run in this election.\u201d With many unpaved roads, a mostly inaccessible fleet of buses and potholes galore, C\u00f3rdoba is one of the most difficult cities in Argentina for people with disabilities. So Juncos and his colleagues are using a political strategy that has never been tried before in the country, and likely anywhere in the world. They have formed a political ticket made up entirely of people who are either disabled, or specialists in disabilities.C\u00f3rdoba is Argentina\u2019s second largest city, and one that has forged a distinct identity from Buenos Aires, the country\u2019s capital. While Buenos Aires is known for its more European culture and architecture, C\u00f3rdoba has the look and feel of an outsized frontier town. Founded in 1571 and originally populated primarily by Jesuit missionaries, the city grew in the 19th and 20th centuries on the back of a booming agricultural sector. Today, residents of C\u00f3rdoba pride themselves on their unique accent, outgoing character and rowdy nightlife. Many even shun the tango, more closely associated with Buenos Aires, in favour of the city\u2019s energetic home-grown music and dance style: cuarteto.But despite its occasionally boisterous culture, C\u00f3rdoba remains firmly rooted in its conservative religious origins. Many are resistant to challenging established social roles \u2013 which has been especially detrimental to the disabled, according to Martin Carranza Torres, president of Juncos\u2019 Liberal Republican party. \u201cMany people here would rather leave the disabled on the steps of the cathedral begging for money than let them take charge of their own lives,\u201d he says.The Liberal Republican party would seem an unlikely backer of for a disability campaign: in Argentina, the term \u201cliberal\u201d refers to an ideology closer to libertarianism. \u201cMany people were surprised that a ticket like we\u2019ve put together didn\u2019t come from a socialist party,\u201d says Carranza Torres. \u201cBut it makes perfect sense. What we\u2019re proposing is an urban policy that allows disabled people to be more self sufficient, more free.\u201dAfter C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s provincial election on 5 July, Carranza Torres heard from a fellow campaigner, Horacio Magnin, who is hearing impaired. Magnin and his long-time friend Juncos were sick of lobbying the city government to little effect. They wanted to change things from the inside \u2013 and Carranza Torres convinced his party to back them. The 14 candidates will appear on a single ticket for C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s 13 September mayoral election, under the name Tenemos Mucho Para Dar (We Have Much to Give). An attorney who was left paralysed after a swimming accident when he was 21, Juncos earned a law degree from his wheelchair, and is joined on the ticket by his fellow law student Leonor Salguero. Others include Norma Sanchez, president of Derechos Sobre Ruedas (\u201cRights on Wheels\u201d) and Martin Aguirre, who made headlines when he blocked a bus with his wheelchair after the driver refused to lower the ramp. Some of the candidates share the party\u2019s libertarian outlook, others do not. But on one thing they all agree: C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s record for disabled accessibility is dismal.\u201cArgentina\u2019s government has one of the most comprehensive disability laws,\u201d says Salguero. \u201cBut much of the law depends on the willingness of each city to comply. And in C\u00f3rdoba, sadly, much of that law hasn\u2019t been carried out.\u201dThe group\u2019s biggest concern is access to transportation. The mayor, Ram\u00f3n Mestre, says 300 of the city\u2019s 700 buses are accessible for the disabled; the group say that figure is misleading.\u201cMany aren\u2019t low-floor buses, making them harder to access for people in motorised wheelchairs,\u201d says Sanchez. \u201cOthers simply hang signs in the window saying their ramps are out of order.\u201d Other problems include frequently cracked sidewalks and buildings that often do not comply with accessibility codes. In addition, many parts of the city still do not have paved roads, making life harder for people without disabilities, but nearly impossible for the disabled.The team promise to renovate the city\u2019s bus fleet and rigorously enforce building accessibility. In addition, they want to ensure that a current initiative to replace sewers and sidewalks is used to remove tiled sidewalks and other surfaces that crack easily.Critics question whether this focus on disabilities would allow them to maintain a balanced approach to city governance. Juncos counters that the group has detailed proposals in other areas, such as education, public health and policing. Some of their proposals aim to improve life for people with and without disabilities alike: for example, paving all the city\u2019s roads, and making more of the city\u2019s documentation procedures available online. They also feel that being disabled would make them more effective as public servants. \u201cSo many politicians in C\u00f3rdoba don\u2019t listen to their constituents,\u201d says Celeste Meana, one of the candidates. \u201cWe don\u2019t think that way. We know what it\u2019s like to rely on people. We know what it\u2019s like to ask for help.\u201dOf the 13 candidates vying for mayor, incumbent Mestre is the frontrunner: his affiliation with Mauricio Macri, mayor of Buenos Aires and presidential candidate, has allowed him to draw on the vast campaign resources of Macri\u2019s PRO party. While Mestre\u2019s campaign for re-election calls for important reforms, such as expanding the city\u2019s fledgling BRT system, electric trolleybus lines and bike lane network, disabled access seems to be off the agenda. Mestre\u2019s office did not respond to requests for comment. Related: Disabled man takes on Tube challenge Other candidates are taking the issue more seriously. Luis Juez, mayor from 2003 to 2007 and Mestre\u2019s main opponent, has plans to expand the disabilities office, which he says Mestre has \u201cvirtually abandoned\u201d. He agrees with many of Juncos\u2019s proposals. \u201cOnly 10% of the city\u2019s buses are low-floor buses,\u201d he says. \u201cWe need to change that.\u201dJuncos is not likely to win the majority needed to become mayor, though he is hopeful he can earn the approximately 20,000 votes needed to earn a seat on the council. But, win or lose, his group remain committed to improving life in C\u00f3rdoba. \u201cA city with better access for the disabled is a fairer city, a better city,\u201d he says. \u201cNot just for the disabled, but for everyone.\u201dFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "Disability", "Society", "Mayoral elections", "Politics", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "The all-disabled party shaking up politics in C\u00f3rdoba, Argentina"},{"date": "2015-07-05T04:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "F\u00e9lix D\u00edaz stands before a line of colourful plastic tents on one of the broad strips of land running down the centre of the Avenida 9 de Julio \u2013 one of the busiest thoroughfares in the Argentinian capital.\u201cWe have many gods,\u201d he says. \u201cThe god of nature, the god of water, the god of air, but we no longer have the land we shared with them. They\u2019ve taken our gods and now they\u2019re taking what little is left of our land.\u201dD\u00edaz, the chieftain of the Qom indigenous tribe, is leading the fight for the return of his people\u2019s ancestral lands in the distant northern province of Formosa. Together with representatives of the Pilag\u00e1, Wichi and Nivacl\u00e9 indigenous communities, the Qom activists have for the past five months camped out in central Buenos Aires to demand the return of their traditional territories. But his words are drowned out by the thunderous din of traffic \u2013 and his message has been actively ignored by government officials. Argentina is often thought of as a country of immigrants: most of the current population consider themselves to be descendants of southern Europeans who arrived between the mid-19th and early 20th centuries. D\u00edaz is attempting to change that narrative by making visible the displaced indigenous minority and reaffirming their rights \u2013 and their claims to lost territory.\u201cArgentina\u2019s indigenous people suffer racism, discrimination and violence,\u201d says Nobel peace prize winner Adolfo P\u00e9rez Esquivel, who survived 14 months of torture and incarceration during the country\u2019s 1976-83 military dictatorship and is now leading a campaign for official recognition of indigenous leaders such as D\u00edaz.Far from responding to their demands, however, Argentina\u2019s government has responded by sending in the police. Riot police in armoured vehicles launched a 3am raid in a failed attempt to evict the protest camp.The attempted eviction was halted after the news went viral on social media. \u201cWe\u2019re not murderers, we\u2019re not delinquents, we\u2019re not corrupt,\u201d said D\u00edaz. \u201cWe just want our human rights respected and to be received by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner.\u201dFern\u00e1ndez has cast herself as a defender of human rights, throwing her political weight behind the trials against military officials of the dictatorship era, but her government has consistently disregarded the rights claimed by indigenous leaders such as D\u00edaz.\u201cThe government talks about human rights during the time of the dictatorship while it violates the rights of the indigenous people today,\u201d says P\u00e9rez Esquivel.P\u00e9rez Esquivel has the ear of a powerful ally: the former bishop of Buenos Aires. In 2013, he arranged a meeting between D\u00edaz and Pope Francis at the Vatican, and a striking photograph of the meeting between two white-clad leaders made front pages across Argentina. But even that media coup has failed to shake apparent public indifference to indigenous rights.That is why in February D\u00edaz brought his protest from Formosa, a steamy, subtropical poverty-stricken province, to this makeshift protest camp in bustling Buenos Aires.After five months, the plastic tents are looking ragged, the white plastic chairs are soiled and the modular toilets standing in the middle of the avenue look out of place. Few people stop to express solidarity. Two small girls run barefoot perilously close to the curb as oblivious motorists speed by.Part of the problem is that Fern\u00e1ndez refuses to recognize the results of a government-sponsored 2011 vote in which the 50,000-strong Qom community elected D\u00edaz as its representative to negotiate the land question. D\u00edaz defeated his opponent in an 80% landslide. But Fern\u00e1ndez dismisses D\u00edaz outright. \u201cThe Qom don\u2019t live in press conferences; they don\u2019t live on 9 de Julio avenue,\u201d she said two years ago regarding a previous protest on the same spot. \u201cThey live in Formosa.\u201dD\u00edaz counters: \u201cIn 2007 the government took away 2042 hectares [about 5,000 acres] of our ancestral lands,\u201d counters D\u00edaz. \u201cSince then, it has ignored all ourdemands.\u201cLosing land for us is like losing a body organ,\u201d he says. \u201cIt means deathto us if we don\u2019t have our land for physical and spiritual nourishment, for our ancestral medicine.\u201dArgentina\u2019s last population census in 2010 registered nearly 1 million people \u2013 about 2.38% of the total population of over 40 million \u2013 who consider themselves direct descendants of the nation\u2019s indigenous inhabitants.But the overall genetic makeup of Argentinians is more mixed than was oncebelieved. \u201cThe ancestry information markers we carry in our blood show thatgenetically Argentinians are about 70% European, 20% indigenous and 5%African,\u201d says Daniel Corach, director of the service of genetic digitaltracing at the University of Buenos Aires, who reached that conclusion basedon wide-ranging DNA testing throughout Argentina.But in the country\u2019s northern regions, some communities have less mixed ancestry, says Corach. Among the groups with the least European blood are the Wichi and Qom communities in Formosa. \u201cThere are over 30 native languages still spoken in Argentina today. And the economically dominant economic groups continue to displace those people even now, especially with the advent of extensive soy plantations, which have forced those native populations to resettle in urban areas,\u201d he said.The Qom people fiercely resisted Spanish colonial encroachment and attempts to convert them to Christianity. But their ecosystem was devastated when the province of Formosa came under Argentinian rule in 1876 after a war with neighbouring Paraguay.That ecosystem was destroyed by exploitation of the native quebracho tree, known for its tanin and its hard timber. And when the new white landowners turned to cotton production, the Qom people became the cheap seasonal workforce.Since the 1990s their situation has only deteriorated further. Industrial-style soy cultivation has accelerated deforestation. Communities have lost their lands to agribusiness and suffer health problems from fertilizers, pesticides and water poisoning. Father Francisco Nazar, a priest who left Buenos Aires to work amongst the Qom and the Wichi peoples in Formosa 44 years ago, sees D\u00edaz as Argentina\u2019s best hope for coming to terms with the existence of its indigenous communities. \u201cHe\u2019s imbued with the culture and spirituality of his ancestors, combined with a total belief in non-violence. He is a great man against very powerful enemies.\u201dAccording to P\u00e9rez Esquivel, the situation facing Argentina\u2019s indigenous people is dire. \u201cThey are the object of systematic persecution while their lands are handed over to big international firms for mining, oil, gold, strategic minerals, fracking. They\u2019re being driven out of their territories. They live like exiles in their own land.\u201dAlthough D\u00edaz and P\u00e9rez Esquivel continue pressing for a presidential response, they are not optimistic. \u201cI don\u2019t think the president is going to change on this. It\u2019s a political decision,\u201d says P\u00e9rez Esquivel.D\u00edaz adds: \u201cThey\u2019re killing us with indifference.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina indigenous chieftain leads fight to reclaim ancestral land"},{"date": "2015-09-30T21:57:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s government has stepped up efforts to track down a fugitive former spymaster who is reported to be in hiding in Miami, warning the US that it is putting its relationship with the South American country at risk.Antonio Stiuso, a former operations chief of the now-disbanded intelligence secretariat, fled Argentina following the death in January of star prosecutor Alberto Nisman, an unsolved mystery which triggered a political earthquake.Nisman was found shot dead in his bathroom on 18 January, days after accusing president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez of conspiring to cover up alleged Iranian involvement in a 1994 bomb attack on a Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires that killed 85 people. Related: Spies, cover-ups and the mysterious death of an Argentinian prosecutor Fern\u00e1ndez has claimed that Nisman\u2019s death may have been stage-managed by Stiuso in order to incriminate her and destabilize her government. Stiuso\u2019s exact whereabouts have been unknown since shortly after he testified at the judicial inquiry into Nisman\u2019s death. Media reports have alleged that he is in Miami. On Wednesday, Argentina\u2019s cabinet chief of staff, Anibal Fern\u00e1ndez, said that the US had failed to respond to eight formal requests for details on the missing spy chief\u2019s whereabouts. \u201cWe ask ourselves sometimes: \u2018Is the United States ready to allow the bilateral relations between it and Argentina to worsen for a man they all say has no importance, no strategic value for the United States?\u2019\u201d he told reporters.Oscar Parrilli, head of the Federal Intelligence Agency, said Argentina planned to summon the American ambassador to Buenos Aires, Noah Mamet, to explain \u201cthe absolute lack of response and in some ways complicity in this situation\u201d.Meanwhile, Interpol has issued a \u201cblue notice\u201d for Stiuso, after a request from the team of prosecutors investigating the 1994 blast that Fern\u00e1ndez named to replace Nisman. The notice is not an arrest warrant, but a request for international authorities to collect \u201cinformation about a person\u2019s identity, location or activities in relation to a crime\u201d. Earlier this week, President Fern\u00e1ndez alluded to Stiuso in her address to the United Nations general assembly in New York, although she did not name him. \u201cI would say that he is being protected. Protected from what? I don\u2019t know,\u201d she said.Stiuso had been one of Nisman\u2019s closest collaborators in the investigation into the 1994 blast, as well as one of the president\u2019s most trusted advisors, before his relationship with Fern\u00e1ndez turned sour.Nisman and Stiuso had assembled a large quantity of evidence that Nisman used to charge a group of Iranian officials with planning the bombing of the AMIA Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires 21 years ago. Interpol arrest warrants had been issued by Argentina for the arrest of the Iranian officials, with no result.Stiuso and the president had a falling out in 2013 after Fern\u00e1ndez decided on a change of tactic with Iran that included replacing Nisman\u2019s investigation with a binational Argentinian-Iranian commission to investigate the blast.That understanding ultimately failed after Argentina\u2019s supreme court declared the agreement with Iran unconstitutional because it prevented the judicial system from continuing its investigation into the blast.In January, Nisman went public with allegations that the real motive behind Argentina\u2019s rapprochement with Iran was trade concessions by the Iranian government that would help alleviate Argentina\u2019s economic woes.His mysterious death a few days later, however, put a quick end to his investigation against the president. The courts threw out Nisman\u2019s charges after his death, while Fern\u00e1ndez began claiming that Nisman had been either murdered or forced to commit suicide by Stiuso to incriminate her.Argentina\u2019s foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, also accused the US of harbouring Stiuso, in an interview with the Buenos Aires daily P\u00e1gina/12 on Wednesday. \u201cThe lack of cooperation shown by Obama\u2019s government is startling,\u201d Timerman said. \u201cStiuso must enjoy some degree of protection that has allowed him to live in hiding for so many months. He is surely being protected by his contacts in the US secret services.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Espionage", "US news", "World news", "Americas", "Miami", "Florida"], "title": "Argentina warns US to cooperate in heightened search for fugitive spy chief"},{"date": "2015-09-02T14:19:33Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Gabriel Juncos is rolling down a sidewalk in C\u00f3rdoba in his wheelchair, explaining his mayoral campaign plans, when one of the wheels gets stuck in a hole in the pavement. Two pedestrians pass him in a huff. Undeterred, Juncos manoeuvres the chair out of the rut and keeps talking. He\u2019s clearly seen much worse.Two blocks later, one of the other candidates in Juncos\u2019s party also runs into trouble. A ramp at the curb doesn\u2019t extend low enough for wheelchairs. \u201cI\u2019m going to take the street,\u201d Miguel Angel Marquez yells, proceeding to dodge cars and buses as he heads for the next available ramp.\u201cYou see?\u201d Juncos says. \u201cThis is exactly why we have to run in this election.\u201d With many unpaved roads, a mostly inaccessible fleet of buses and potholes galore, C\u00f3rdoba is one of the most difficult cities in Argentina for people with disabilities. So Juncos and his colleagues are using a political strategy that has never been tried before in the country, and likely anywhere in the world. They have formed a political ticket made up entirely of people who are either disabled, or specialists in disabilities.C\u00f3rdoba is Argentina\u2019s second largest city, and one that has forged a distinct identity from Buenos Aires, the country\u2019s capital. While Buenos Aires is known for its more European culture and architecture, C\u00f3rdoba has the look and feel of an outsized frontier town. Founded in 1571 and originally populated primarily by Jesuit missionaries, the city grew in the 19th and 20th centuries on the back of a booming agricultural sector. Today, residents of C\u00f3rdoba pride themselves on their unique accent, outgoing character and rowdy nightlife. Many even shun the tango, more closely associated with Buenos Aires, in favour of the city\u2019s energetic home-grown music and dance style: cuarteto.But despite its occasionally boisterous culture, C\u00f3rdoba remains firmly rooted in its conservative religious origins. Many are resistant to challenging established social roles \u2013 which has been especially detrimental to the disabled, according to Martin Carranza Torres, president of Juncos\u2019 Liberal Republican party. \u201cMany people here would rather leave the disabled on the steps of the cathedral begging for money than let them take charge of their own lives,\u201d he says.The Liberal Republican party would seem an unlikely backer of for a disability campaign: in Argentina, the term \u201cliberal\u201d refers to an ideology closer to libertarianism. \u201cMany people were surprised that a ticket like we\u2019ve put together didn\u2019t come from a socialist party,\u201d says Carranza Torres. \u201cBut it makes perfect sense. What we\u2019re proposing is an urban policy that allows disabled people to be more self sufficient, more free.\u201dAfter C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s provincial election on 5 July, Carranza Torres heard from a fellow campaigner, Horacio Magnin, who is hearing impaired. Magnin and his long-time friend Juncos were sick of lobbying the city government to little effect. They wanted to change things from the inside \u2013 and Carranza Torres convinced his party to back them. The 14 candidates will appear on a single ticket for C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s 13 September mayoral election, under the name Tenemos Mucho Para Dar (We Have Much to Give). An attorney who was left paralysed after a swimming accident when he was 21, Juncos earned a law degree from his wheelchair, and is joined on the ticket by his fellow law student Leonor Salguero. Others include Norma Sanchez, president of Derechos Sobre Ruedas (\u201cRights on Wheels\u201d) and Martin Aguirre, who made headlines when he blocked a bus with his wheelchair after the driver refused to lower the ramp. Some of the candidates share the party\u2019s libertarian outlook, others do not. But on one thing they all agree: C\u00f3rdoba\u2019s record for disabled accessibility is dismal.\u201cArgentina\u2019s government has one of the most comprehensive disability laws,\u201d says Salguero. \u201cBut much of the law depends on the willingness of each city to comply. And in C\u00f3rdoba, sadly, much of that law hasn\u2019t been carried out.\u201dThe group\u2019s biggest concern is access to transportation. The mayor, Ram\u00f3n Mestre, says 300 of the city\u2019s 700 buses are accessible for the disabled; the group say that figure is misleading.\u201cMany aren\u2019t low-floor buses, making them harder to access for people in motorised wheelchairs,\u201d says Sanchez. \u201cOthers simply hang signs in the window saying their ramps are out of order.\u201d Other problems include frequently cracked sidewalks and buildings that often do not comply with accessibility codes. In addition, many parts of the city still do not have paved roads, making life harder for people without disabilities, but nearly impossible for the disabled.The team promise to renovate the city\u2019s bus fleet and rigorously enforce building accessibility. In addition, they want to ensure that a current initiative to replace sewers and sidewalks is used to remove tiled sidewalks and other surfaces that crack easily.Critics question whether this focus on disabilities would allow them to maintain a balanced approach to city governance. Juncos counters that the group has detailed proposals in other areas, such as education, public health and policing. Some of their proposals aim to improve life for people with and without disabilities alike: for example, paving all the city\u2019s roads, and making more of the city\u2019s documentation procedures available online. They also feel that being disabled would make them more effective as public servants. \u201cSo many politicians in C\u00f3rdoba don\u2019t listen to their constituents,\u201d says Celeste Meana, one of the candidates. \u201cWe don\u2019t think that way. We know what it\u2019s like to rely on people. We know what it\u2019s like to ask for help.\u201dOf the 13 candidates vying for mayor, incumbent Mestre is the frontrunner: his affiliation with Mauricio Macri, mayor of Buenos Aires and presidential candidate, has allowed him to draw on the vast campaign resources of Macri\u2019s PRO party. While Mestre\u2019s campaign for re-election calls for important reforms, such as expanding the city\u2019s fledgling BRT system, electric trolleybus lines and bike lane network, disabled access seems to be off the agenda. Mestre\u2019s office did not respond to requests for comment. Related: Disabled man takes on Tube challenge Other candidates are taking the issue more seriously. Luis Juez, mayor from 2003 to 2007 and Mestre\u2019s main opponent, has plans to expand the disabilities office, which he says Mestre has \u201cvirtually abandoned\u201d. He agrees with many of Juncos\u2019s proposals. \u201cOnly 10% of the city\u2019s buses are low-floor buses,\u201d he says. \u201cWe need to change that.\u201dJuncos is not likely to win the majority needed to become mayor, though he is hopeful he can earn the approximately 20,000 votes needed to earn a seat on the council. But, win or lose, his group remain committed to improving life in C\u00f3rdoba. \u201cA city with better access for the disabled is a fairer city, a better city,\u201d he says. \u201cNot just for the disabled, but for everyone.\u201dFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook and join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "Disability", "Society", "Mayoral elections", "Politics", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "The all-disabled party shaking up politics in C\u00f3rdoba, Argentina"},{"date": "2015-07-05T04:00:03Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "F\u00e9lix D\u00edaz stands before a line of colourful plastic tents on one of the broad strips of land running down the centre of the Avenida 9 de Julio \u2013 one of the busiest thoroughfares in the Argentinian capital.\u201cWe have many gods,\u201d he says. \u201cThe god of nature, the god of water, the god of air, but we no longer have the land we shared with them. They\u2019ve taken our gods and now they\u2019re taking what little is left of our land.\u201dD\u00edaz, the chieftain of the Qom indigenous tribe, is leading the fight for the return of his people\u2019s ancestral lands in the distant northern province of Formosa. Together with representatives of the Pilag\u00e1, Wichi and Nivacl\u00e9 indigenous communities, the Qom activists have for the past five months camped out in central Buenos Aires to demand the return of their traditional territories. But his words are drowned out by the thunderous din of traffic \u2013 and his message has been actively ignored by government officials. Argentina is often thought of as a country of immigrants: most of the current population consider themselves to be descendants of southern Europeans who arrived between the mid-19th and early 20th centuries. D\u00edaz is attempting to change that narrative by making visible the displaced indigenous minority and reaffirming their rights \u2013 and their claims to lost territory.\u201cArgentina\u2019s indigenous people suffer racism, discrimination and violence,\u201d says Nobel peace prize winner Adolfo P\u00e9rez Esquivel, who survived 14 months of torture and incarceration during the country\u2019s 1976-83 military dictatorship and is now leading a campaign for official recognition of indigenous leaders such as D\u00edaz.Far from responding to their demands, however, Argentina\u2019s government has responded by sending in the police. Riot police in armoured vehicles launched a 3am raid in a failed attempt to evict the protest camp.The attempted eviction was halted after the news went viral on social media. \u201cWe\u2019re not murderers, we\u2019re not delinquents, we\u2019re not corrupt,\u201d said D\u00edaz. \u201cWe just want our human rights respected and to be received by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner.\u201dFern\u00e1ndez has cast herself as a defender of human rights, throwing her political weight behind the trials against military officials of the dictatorship era, but her government has consistently disregarded the rights claimed by indigenous leaders such as D\u00edaz.\u201cThe government talks about human rights during the time of the dictatorship while it violates the rights of the indigenous people today,\u201d says P\u00e9rez Esquivel.P\u00e9rez Esquivel has the ear of a powerful ally: the former bishop of Buenos Aires. In 2013, he arranged a meeting between D\u00edaz and Pope Francis at the Vatican, and a striking photograph of the meeting between two white-clad leaders made front pages across Argentina. But even that media coup has failed to shake apparent public indifference to indigenous rights.That is why in February D\u00edaz brought his protest from Formosa, a steamy, subtropical poverty-stricken province, to this makeshift protest camp in bustling Buenos Aires.After five months, the plastic tents are looking ragged, the white plastic chairs are soiled and the modular toilets standing in the middle of the avenue look out of place. Few people stop to express solidarity. Two small girls run barefoot perilously close to the curb as oblivious motorists speed by.Part of the problem is that Fern\u00e1ndez refuses to recognize the results of a government-sponsored 2011 vote in which the 50,000-strong Qom community elected D\u00edaz as its representative to negotiate the land question. D\u00edaz defeated his opponent in an 80% landslide. But Fern\u00e1ndez dismisses D\u00edaz outright. \u201cThe Qom don\u2019t live in press conferences; they don\u2019t live on 9 de Julio avenue,\u201d she said two years ago regarding a previous protest on the same spot. \u201cThey live in Formosa.\u201dD\u00edaz counters: \u201cIn 2007 the government took away 2042 hectares [about 5,000 acres] of our ancestral lands,\u201d counters D\u00edaz. \u201cSince then, it has ignored all ourdemands.\u201cLosing land for us is like losing a body organ,\u201d he says. \u201cIt means deathto us if we don\u2019t have our land for physical and spiritual nourishment, for our ancestral medicine.\u201dArgentina\u2019s last population census in 2010 registered nearly 1 million people \u2013 about 2.38% of the total population of over 40 million \u2013 who consider themselves direct descendants of the nation\u2019s indigenous inhabitants.But the overall genetic makeup of Argentinians is more mixed than was oncebelieved. \u201cThe ancestry information markers we carry in our blood show thatgenetically Argentinians are about 70% European, 20% indigenous and 5%African,\u201d says Daniel Corach, director of the service of genetic digitaltracing at the University of Buenos Aires, who reached that conclusion basedon wide-ranging DNA testing throughout Argentina.But in the country\u2019s northern regions, some communities have less mixed ancestry, says Corach. Among the groups with the least European blood are the Wichi and Qom communities in Formosa. \u201cThere are over 30 native languages still spoken in Argentina today. And the economically dominant economic groups continue to displace those people even now, especially with the advent of extensive soy plantations, which have forced those native populations to resettle in urban areas,\u201d he said.The Qom people fiercely resisted Spanish colonial encroachment and attempts to convert them to Christianity. But their ecosystem was devastated when the province of Formosa came under Argentinian rule in 1876 after a war with neighbouring Paraguay.That ecosystem was destroyed by exploitation of the native quebracho tree, known for its tanin and its hard timber. And when the new white landowners turned to cotton production, the Qom people became the cheap seasonal workforce.Since the 1990s their situation has only deteriorated further. Industrial-style soy cultivation has accelerated deforestation. Communities have lost their lands to agribusiness and suffer health problems from fertilizers, pesticides and water poisoning. Father Francisco Nazar, a priest who left Buenos Aires to work amongst the Qom and the Wichi peoples in Formosa 44 years ago, sees D\u00edaz as Argentina\u2019s best hope for coming to terms with the existence of its indigenous communities. \u201cHe\u2019s imbued with the culture and spirituality of his ancestors, combined with a total belief in non-violence. He is a great man against very powerful enemies.\u201dAccording to P\u00e9rez Esquivel, the situation facing Argentina\u2019s indigenous people is dire. \u201cThey are the object of systematic persecution while their lands are handed over to big international firms for mining, oil, gold, strategic minerals, fracking. They\u2019re being driven out of their territories. They live like exiles in their own land.\u201dAlthough D\u00edaz and P\u00e9rez Esquivel continue pressing for a presidential response, they are not optimistic. \u201cI don\u2019t think the president is going to change on this. It\u2019s a political decision,\u201d says P\u00e9rez Esquivel.D\u00edaz adds: \u201cThey\u2019re killing us with indifference.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Argentina indigenous chieftain leads fight to reclaim ancestral land"},{"date": "2015-09-30T21:57:57Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Argentina\u2019s government has stepped up efforts to track down a fugitive former spymaster who is reported to be in hiding in Miami, warning the US that it is putting its relationship with the South American country at risk.Antonio Stiuso, a former operations chief of the now-disbanded intelligence secretariat, fled Argentina following the death in January of star prosecutor Alberto Nisman, an unsolved mystery which triggered a political earthquake.Nisman was found shot dead in his bathroom on 18 January, days after accusing president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez of conspiring to cover up alleged Iranian involvement in a 1994 bomb attack on a Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires that killed 85 people. Related: Spies, cover-ups and the mysterious death of an Argentinian prosecutor Fern\u00e1ndez has claimed that Nisman\u2019s death may have been stage-managed by Stiuso in order to incriminate her and destabilize her government. Stiuso\u2019s exact whereabouts have been unknown since shortly after he testified at the judicial inquiry into Nisman\u2019s death. Media reports have alleged that he is in Miami. On Wednesday, Argentina\u2019s cabinet chief of staff, Anibal Fern\u00e1ndez, said that the US had failed to respond to eight formal requests for details on the missing spy chief\u2019s whereabouts. \u201cWe ask ourselves sometimes: \u2018Is the United States ready to allow the bilateral relations between it and Argentina to worsen for a man they all say has no importance, no strategic value for the United States?\u2019\u201d he told reporters.Oscar Parrilli, head of the Federal Intelligence Agency, said Argentina planned to summon the American ambassador to Buenos Aires, Noah Mamet, to explain \u201cthe absolute lack of response and in some ways complicity in this situation\u201d.Meanwhile, Interpol has issued a \u201cblue notice\u201d for Stiuso, after a request from the team of prosecutors investigating the 1994 blast that Fern\u00e1ndez named to replace Nisman. The notice is not an arrest warrant, but a request for international authorities to collect \u201cinformation about a person\u2019s identity, location or activities in relation to a crime\u201d. Earlier this week, President Fern\u00e1ndez alluded to Stiuso in her address to the United Nations general assembly in New York, although she did not name him. \u201cI would say that he is being protected. Protected from what? I don\u2019t know,\u201d she said.Stiuso had been one of Nisman\u2019s closest collaborators in the investigation into the 1994 blast, as well as one of the president\u2019s most trusted advisors, before his relationship with Fern\u00e1ndez turned sour.Nisman and Stiuso had assembled a large quantity of evidence that Nisman used to charge a group of Iranian officials with planning the bombing of the AMIA Jewish community centre in Buenos Aires 21 years ago. Interpol arrest warrants had been issued by Argentina for the arrest of the Iranian officials, with no result.Stiuso and the president had a falling out in 2013 after Fern\u00e1ndez decided on a change of tactic with Iran that included replacing Nisman\u2019s investigation with a binational Argentinian-Iranian commission to investigate the blast.That understanding ultimately failed after Argentina\u2019s supreme court declared the agreement with Iran unconstitutional because it prevented the judicial system from continuing its investigation into the blast.In January, Nisman went public with allegations that the real motive behind Argentina\u2019s rapprochement with Iran was trade concessions by the Iranian government that would help alleviate Argentina\u2019s economic woes.His mysterious death a few days later, however, put a quick end to his investigation against the president. The courts threw out Nisman\u2019s charges after his death, while Fern\u00e1ndez began claiming that Nisman had been either murdered or forced to commit suicide by Stiuso to incriminate her.Argentina\u2019s foreign minister, H\u00e9ctor Timerman, also accused the US of harbouring Stiuso, in an interview with the Buenos Aires daily P\u00e1gina/12 on Wednesday. \u201cThe lack of cooperation shown by Obama\u2019s government is startling,\u201d Timerman said. \u201cStiuso must enjoy some degree of protection that has allowed him to live in hiding for so many months. He is surely being protected by his contacts in the US secret services.\u201d", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Espionage", "US news", "World news", "Americas", "Miami", "Florida"], "title": "Argentina warns US to cooperate in heightened search for fugitive spy chief"},{"date": "2015-09-25T06:24:36Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Kim Kardashian is not the kind of public figure normally consulted for her opinions on current affairs or major world events \u2013 nor, to be frank, are her opinions generally taken seriously. Related: Pope Francis's message to Congress: what was he really saying? But a single comment by the reality TV star on the occasion of Pope Francis\u2019s historic visit to the US was enough to reduce one Argentinian entertainment website to paroxysms of nationalist outrage and accusations of anti-papal hostility. The episode began when Kardashian published a lapidary tweet concerning the pontiff.The pope is dopeIt is possible that Kardashian\u2019s message was a riff on the #popeisdope hashtag that has trended on Twitter throughout his visit along with others like #catholicswag and #rockstarpope.Or maybe she chose it because it just happened to rhyme. Most would probably interpret the tweet \u2013 or tuit as it\u2019s spelled in Spanish \u2013 as an endorsement, but it seems the reporter at Primicias Ya was only familiar with the other meaning of \u201cdope\u201d.Under the incredulous headline \u201cDid Kim Kardashian attack the pope?\u201d the writer (mis)translates the tweet as \u201cTHE POPE IS DRUGS.\u201d\u00bfKim Kardashian atac\u00f3 al Papa Francisco? ---->>> http://t.co/3HHm1samoj pic.twitter.com/Bn93mkVBqQStung by nationalist pride, the writer \u2013 who is not bylined \u2013 springs to the defence of a fellow Argentinian \u2013 referring to him as \u201cour pope\u201d. Related: Pope Francis in the US: share your photos, videos and stories After a brief recap of some of the pope\u2019s benevolent and revolutionary acts, the writer concludes that life \u201cis not all roses\u201d and says that Francis has \u201cfound an enemy\u201d in the US.The writer helpfully reminds readers that Kardashian once featured in a sex tape, before canvassing readers for possible explanations for the \u201ccurious tweet\u201d.\u201cWhat could Kim be referring to? Without a doubt, this couldn\u2019t be positive. How do you interpret her message?\u201dCommenters on the post have been quick to share dope\u2019s more positive connotations with the writer and some even sprang to Kardashian\u2019s defense. One commenter scolds Primicias Ya, demanding that they \u201cinform themselves before creating controversy\u201d. Another remarks on the star\u2019s many entrepreneurial endeavours. Kardashian\u2019s message about the pope has been retweeted more than12,000 times.", "tags": ["Pope Francis", "Kim Kardashian", "Twitter", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "A dope pope: Kim Kardashian tweet causes minor outrage in Argentina"},{"date": "2015-12-10T11:58:22Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "With a massive turnout of teary-eyed crowds who filled the wide Plaza de Mayo square and overflowed down its adjoining avenues, Argentina bid farewell on Wednesday evening to its outgoing president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, perhaps the country\u2019s best-loved leader since the return of democracy 32 years ago.But as Argentina prepared to complete a tetchy handover on Thursday to the former Buenos Aires mayor, Mauricio Macri, supporters were already calling for her to come back and anticipating the political battles to follow succession. \u201cWe will return, we will return,\u201d chanted the tightly packed wall of supporters outside the Casa Rosada presidential palace. Many of them carried placards reading \u201cCristina 2019\u201d, expressing the hope that Fern\u00e1ndez might compete for a third term.Having already served twice, the leftwing leader was constitutionally barred from running in this year\u2019s contest, which was won by Macri of the centre-right Cambiemos alliance.The pro-business politician is expected to steer Argentina away from the populist economics of Fern\u00e1ndez and the alliances she wove with countries such as Russia, Cuba, Iran and Venezuela. He has said he will seek to restore former close ties with the US and Europe. Related: 'I'm hoping for better things to come': readers' views on Argentina's future Behind the thick walls of the Casa Rosada, the massive \u201cPink House\u201d facing the historic square from which she ruled Argentina for the last eight years, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s last act as president was to unveil a bust of her late husband, N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who preceded her in office in 2003 and stepped aside to let her become president in 2007 before dying of heart failure three years later.The Kirchners formed an unbeatable presidential tandem for 12 years, dividing Argentina between passionate supporters and ardent opponents of their \u201cnational and popular\u201d brand of government. Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s sendoff was typically passionate.\u201cI think she\u2019s exceptional, a brilliant woman,\u201d said schoolteacher Alicia Testai, who joined the throng on the Avenida de Mayo.With her marched Lea Braslavsky, an engineer who worked with the World Bank in Washington DC for 30 years but returned to Argentina after the Kirchners came to power. \u201cIt was a dream what was happening, how the country was able to stand on its feet again, the distribution of wealth, the empowerment of the people,\u201d Braslavsky said.A loud roar arose from the giant crowd as Fern\u00e1ndez emerged from the Casa Rosada to speak from a stage erected in front of the square. \u201cI can\u2019t talk long because I turn into a pumpkin at midnight,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez joked.The president was referring to a last-minute judicial injunction obtained by Macri that ruled her term over at midnight, instead of at noon on the day of the handover, as had traditionally been the case.The court order was the climax of a tense buildup to Thursday\u2019s inauguration, which has at times resembled a soap opera more than an orderly democratic transition. During the unseemly feud, Fern\u00e1ndez claimed she felt verbally abused as a woman in a heated phone argument with Macri over the inauguration arrangements.Macri had wanted Fern\u00e1ndez to present him the traditional silver-capped presidential baton at the Casa Rosada, as was the custom up until the 2003. Fern\u00e1ndez refused, insisting she would only hand over the ceremonial staff during his inauguration at the Congress building, as has been the custom for the last three presidential handovers.Had Macri accepted the outgoing president\u2019s proposal, he would have been deprived of what he hopes will be a triumphant ride in an open convertible down the 10 blocks from Congress after his inauguration to receive the baton in the Casa Rosada.Macri may also have been fearful that Fern\u00e1ndez would have received louder cheers in Congress because her FPV party has more legislators.Negotiations over the transition ceremony finally collapsed after an angry Fern\u00e1ndez fired off a cascade of tweets accusing Macri of screaming at her during a phone argument they had about the arrangements.\u201cI must confess I was surprised by the president-elect\u2019s exalted verbiage, a euphemism for screams,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted. \u201cTo the point that at one moment I had to remind him that, beyond our posts in office, he was a man and I a woman, and that it was out of place from him to treat me like that.\u201dThe phonecall, which Macri has not commented on, proved the last straw for the already brittle relationship between the two. \u201cI thought, that\u2019s as far as my love goes,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted.Fern\u00e1ndez was finally prevented from having the final say in the handover process when the court ended her term 12 hours ahead of time, with the unusual gap being filled by Federico Pinedo, the acting president of the Senate from Macri\u2019s Cambiemos alliance, who will now hand the baton to his party boss at the Casa Rosada as Macri wished.The squabbling between the two even descended to who gets to keep the Casa Rosada\u2019s official Twitter account. The account was changed on Wednesday to \u201cCasa Rosada 2003-2015, a Twitter tribute to presidents N\u00e9stor Kirchner and Cristina Kirchner\u201d in an attempt by Fern\u00e1ndez to prevent it from being turned over to Macri\u2019s administration.No fue magia... fue m\u00e1gico. pic.twitter.com/xKYKpIo0FhPress reports in Argentina, however, indicated that Twitter could turn over the account to the new government instead.Once all-powerful, with approval ratings that peaked over 70% at times, it is unlikely that Fern\u00e1ndez will fade quietly from public view. The farewell salute from her followers, unlike any known for an outgoing president in Argentina before, suggests she may not have to.\u201cHistory isn\u2019t written with a ruler, a carpenter\u2019s square or with a compass, it is not a straight line, it is an undulating line that sometimes seems to move backwards,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez said with reference to Macri\u2019s victory, which is seen by her and her supporters as a threat to the social programmes and progressive policies of her administration.Braslavsky, standing in the Plaza de Mayo to bid her cherished leader farewell, has no fear Fern\u00e1ndez will be gone too long. \u201cLook at all the people here today, that\u2019s how we know she will be back four years from now,\u201d she said smiling.  ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez exits stage left, but for how long?"},{"date": "2015-12-10T11:58:22Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "With a massive turnout of teary-eyed crowds who filled the wide Plaza de Mayo square and overflowed down its adjoining avenues, Argentina bid farewell on Wednesday evening to its outgoing president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, perhaps the country\u2019s best-loved leader since the return of democracy 32 years ago.But as Argentina prepared to complete a tetchy handover on Thursday to the former Buenos Aires mayor, Mauricio Macri, supporters were already calling for her to come back and anticipating the political battles to follow succession. \u201cWe will return, we will return,\u201d chanted the tightly packed wall of supporters outside the Casa Rosada presidential palace. Many of them carried placards reading \u201cCristina 2019\u201d, expressing the hope that Fern\u00e1ndez might compete for a third term.Having already served twice, the leftwing leader was constitutionally barred from running in this year\u2019s contest, which was won by Macri of the centre-right Cambiemos alliance.The pro-business politician is expected to steer Argentina away from the populist economics of Fern\u00e1ndez and the alliances she wove with countries such as Russia, Cuba, Iran and Venezuela. He has said he will seek to restore former close ties with the US and Europe. Related: 'I'm hoping for better things to come': readers' views on Argentina's future Behind the thick walls of the Casa Rosada, the massive \u201cPink House\u201d facing the historic square from which she ruled Argentina for the last eight years, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s last act as president was to unveil a bust of her late husband, N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who preceded her in office in 2003 and stepped aside to let her become president in 2007 before dying of heart failure three years later.The Kirchners formed an unbeatable presidential tandem for 12 years, dividing Argentina between passionate supporters and ardent opponents of their \u201cnational and popular\u201d brand of government. Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s sendoff was typically passionate.\u201cI think she\u2019s exceptional, a brilliant woman,\u201d said schoolteacher Alicia Testai, who joined the throng on the Avenida de Mayo.With her marched Lea Braslavsky, an engineer who worked with the World Bank in Washington DC for 30 years but returned to Argentina after the Kirchners came to power. \u201cIt was a dream what was happening, how the country was able to stand on its feet again, the distribution of wealth, the empowerment of the people,\u201d Braslavsky said.A loud roar arose from the giant crowd as Fern\u00e1ndez emerged from the Casa Rosada to speak from a stage erected in front of the square. \u201cI can\u2019t talk long because I turn into a pumpkin at midnight,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez joked.The president was referring to a last-minute judicial injunction obtained by Macri that ruled her term over at midnight, instead of at noon on the day of the handover, as had traditionally been the case.The court order was the climax of a tense buildup to Thursday\u2019s inauguration, which has at times resembled a soap opera more than an orderly democratic transition. During the unseemly feud, Fern\u00e1ndez claimed she felt verbally abused as a woman in a heated phone argument with Macri over the inauguration arrangements.Macri had wanted Fern\u00e1ndez to present him the traditional silver-capped presidential baton at the Casa Rosada, as was the custom up until the 2003. Fern\u00e1ndez refused, insisting she would only hand over the ceremonial staff during his inauguration at the Congress building, as has been the custom for the last three presidential handovers.Had Macri accepted the outgoing president\u2019s proposal, he would have been deprived of what he hopes will be a triumphant ride in an open convertible down the 10 blocks from Congress after his inauguration to receive the baton in the Casa Rosada.Macri may also have been fearful that Fern\u00e1ndez would have received louder cheers in Congress because her FPV party has more legislators.Negotiations over the transition ceremony finally collapsed after an angry Fern\u00e1ndez fired off a cascade of tweets accusing Macri of screaming at her during a phone argument they had about the arrangements.\u201cI must confess I was surprised by the president-elect\u2019s exalted verbiage, a euphemism for screams,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted. \u201cTo the point that at one moment I had to remind him that, beyond our posts in office, he was a man and I a woman, and that it was out of place from him to treat me like that.\u201dThe phonecall, which Macri has not commented on, proved the last straw for the already brittle relationship between the two. \u201cI thought, that\u2019s as far as my love goes,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted.Fern\u00e1ndez was finally prevented from having the final say in the handover process when the court ended her term 12 hours ahead of time, with the unusual gap being filled by Federico Pinedo, the acting president of the Senate from Macri\u2019s Cambiemos alliance, who will now hand the baton to his party boss at the Casa Rosada as Macri wished.The squabbling between the two even descended to who gets to keep the Casa Rosada\u2019s official Twitter account. The account was changed on Wednesday to \u201cCasa Rosada 2003-2015, a Twitter tribute to presidents N\u00e9stor Kirchner and Cristina Kirchner\u201d in an attempt by Fern\u00e1ndez to prevent it from being turned over to Macri\u2019s administration.No fue magia... fue m\u00e1gico. pic.twitter.com/xKYKpIo0FhPress reports in Argentina, however, indicated that Twitter could turn over the account to the new government instead.Once all-powerful, with approval ratings that peaked over 70% at times, it is unlikely that Fern\u00e1ndez will fade quietly from public view. The farewell salute from her followers, unlike any known for an outgoing president in Argentina before, suggests she may not have to.\u201cHistory isn\u2019t written with a ruler, a carpenter\u2019s square or with a compass, it is not a straight line, it is an undulating line that sometimes seems to move backwards,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez said with reference to Macri\u2019s victory, which is seen by her and her supporters as a threat to the social programmes and progressive policies of her administration.Braslavsky, standing in the Plaza de Mayo to bid her cherished leader farewell, has no fear Fern\u00e1ndez will be gone too long. \u201cLook at all the people here today, that\u2019s how we know she will be back four years from now,\u201d she said smiling.  ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez exits stage left, but for how long?"},{"date": "2015-11-24T14:36:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After 12 years of leftist government, Argentina moved towards the centre-right on Sunday, as Buenos Aires mayor Mauricio Macri of the Cambiemos (Let\u2019s Change) party sealed victory in the country\u2019s presidential election. He will replace Christina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner in the Casa Rosada presidential palace, with the outgoing president stepping down from office on 10 December. Factors behind Macri\u2019s surprise victory include rising concerns among voters about increasing inflation, slowing growth and current crime rates. But opponents fear a return to the neoliberal policies of the 1990s that ended with the country\u2019s economic collapse in 2002, and also worry a vote for Macri could mark a weaker stance on human rights. The election result confirms a sharp change of direction for South America\u2019s second biggest economy, following 12 years of leftwing \u201cKirchnerism,\u201d and we\u2019d like to hear your reaction to the election result. What is the current mood like in Argentina? Are you happy with the result? In the wake of the result what are your hopes or concerns for the future of the country? You can share your experiences via GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019.If you\u2019d prefer you can fill in the form below. You don\u2019t need to supply your real name, but please do leave contact details if you\u2019re happy for us to get in touch. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina election: are you happy with the result?"},{"date": "2015-12-10T11:58:22Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "With a massive turnout of teary-eyed crowds who filled the wide Plaza de Mayo square and overflowed down its adjoining avenues, Argentina bid farewell on Wednesday evening to its outgoing president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, perhaps the country\u2019s best-loved leader since the return of democracy 32 years ago.But as Argentina prepared to complete a tetchy handover on Thursday to the former Buenos Aires mayor, Mauricio Macri, supporters were already calling for her to come back and anticipating the political battles to follow succession. \u201cWe will return, we will return,\u201d chanted the tightly packed wall of supporters outside the Casa Rosada presidential palace. Many of them carried placards reading \u201cCristina 2019\u201d, expressing the hope that Fern\u00e1ndez might compete for a third term.Having already served twice, the leftwing leader was constitutionally barred from running in this year\u2019s contest, which was won by Macri of the centre-right Cambiemos alliance.The pro-business politician is expected to steer Argentina away from the populist economics of Fern\u00e1ndez and the alliances she wove with countries such as Russia, Cuba, Iran and Venezuela. He has said he will seek to restore former close ties with the US and Europe. Related: 'I'm hoping for better things to come': readers' views on Argentina's future Behind the thick walls of the Casa Rosada, the massive \u201cPink House\u201d facing the historic square from which she ruled Argentina for the last eight years, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s last act as president was to unveil a bust of her late husband, N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who preceded her in office in 2003 and stepped aside to let her become president in 2007 before dying of heart failure three years later.The Kirchners formed an unbeatable presidential tandem for 12 years, dividing Argentina between passionate supporters and ardent opponents of their \u201cnational and popular\u201d brand of government. Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s sendoff was typically passionate.\u201cI think she\u2019s exceptional, a brilliant woman,\u201d said schoolteacher Alicia Testai, who joined the throng on the Avenida de Mayo.With her marched Lea Braslavsky, an engineer who worked with the World Bank in Washington DC for 30 years but returned to Argentina after the Kirchners came to power. \u201cIt was a dream what was happening, how the country was able to stand on its feet again, the distribution of wealth, the empowerment of the people,\u201d Braslavsky said.A loud roar arose from the giant crowd as Fern\u00e1ndez emerged from the Casa Rosada to speak from a stage erected in front of the square. \u201cI can\u2019t talk long because I turn into a pumpkin at midnight,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez joked.The president was referring to a last-minute judicial injunction obtained by Macri that ruled her term over at midnight, instead of at noon on the day of the handover, as had traditionally been the case.The court order was the climax of a tense buildup to Thursday\u2019s inauguration, which has at times resembled a soap opera more than an orderly democratic transition. During the unseemly feud, Fern\u00e1ndez claimed she felt verbally abused as a woman in a heated phone argument with Macri over the inauguration arrangements.Macri had wanted Fern\u00e1ndez to present him the traditional silver-capped presidential baton at the Casa Rosada, as was the custom up until the 2003. Fern\u00e1ndez refused, insisting she would only hand over the ceremonial staff during his inauguration at the Congress building, as has been the custom for the last three presidential handovers.Had Macri accepted the outgoing president\u2019s proposal, he would have been deprived of what he hopes will be a triumphant ride in an open convertible down the 10 blocks from Congress after his inauguration to receive the baton in the Casa Rosada.Macri may also have been fearful that Fern\u00e1ndez would have received louder cheers in Congress because her FPV party has more legislators.Negotiations over the transition ceremony finally collapsed after an angry Fern\u00e1ndez fired off a cascade of tweets accusing Macri of screaming at her during a phone argument they had about the arrangements.\u201cI must confess I was surprised by the president-elect\u2019s exalted verbiage, a euphemism for screams,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted. \u201cTo the point that at one moment I had to remind him that, beyond our posts in office, he was a man and I a woman, and that it was out of place from him to treat me like that.\u201dThe phonecall, which Macri has not commented on, proved the last straw for the already brittle relationship between the two. \u201cI thought, that\u2019s as far as my love goes,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted.Fern\u00e1ndez was finally prevented from having the final say in the handover process when the court ended her term 12 hours ahead of time, with the unusual gap being filled by Federico Pinedo, the acting president of the Senate from Macri\u2019s Cambiemos alliance, who will now hand the baton to his party boss at the Casa Rosada as Macri wished.The squabbling between the two even descended to who gets to keep the Casa Rosada\u2019s official Twitter account. The account was changed on Wednesday to \u201cCasa Rosada 2003-2015, a Twitter tribute to presidents N\u00e9stor Kirchner and Cristina Kirchner\u201d in an attempt by Fern\u00e1ndez to prevent it from being turned over to Macri\u2019s administration.No fue magia... fue m\u00e1gico. pic.twitter.com/xKYKpIo0FhPress reports in Argentina, however, indicated that Twitter could turn over the account to the new government instead.Once all-powerful, with approval ratings that peaked over 70% at times, it is unlikely that Fern\u00e1ndez will fade quietly from public view. The farewell salute from her followers, unlike any known for an outgoing president in Argentina before, suggests she may not have to.\u201cHistory isn\u2019t written with a ruler, a carpenter\u2019s square or with a compass, it is not a straight line, it is an undulating line that sometimes seems to move backwards,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez said with reference to Macri\u2019s victory, which is seen by her and her supporters as a threat to the social programmes and progressive policies of her administration.Braslavsky, standing in the Plaza de Mayo to bid her cherished leader farewell, has no fear Fern\u00e1ndez will be gone too long. \u201cLook at all the people here today, that\u2019s how we know she will be back four years from now,\u201d she said smiling.  ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez exits stage left, but for how long?"},{"date": "2015-11-24T14:36:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After 12 years of leftist government, Argentina moved towards the centre-right on Sunday, as Buenos Aires mayor Mauricio Macri of the Cambiemos (Let\u2019s Change) party sealed victory in the country\u2019s presidential election. He will replace Christina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner in the Casa Rosada presidential palace, with the outgoing president stepping down from office on 10 December. Factors behind Macri\u2019s surprise victory include rising concerns among voters about increasing inflation, slowing growth and current crime rates. But opponents fear a return to the neoliberal policies of the 1990s that ended with the country\u2019s economic collapse in 2002, and also worry a vote for Macri could mark a weaker stance on human rights. The election result confirms a sharp change of direction for South America\u2019s second biggest economy, following 12 years of leftwing \u201cKirchnerism,\u201d and we\u2019d like to hear your reaction to the election result. What is the current mood like in Argentina? Are you happy with the result? In the wake of the result what are your hopes or concerns for the future of the country? You can share your experiences via GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019.If you\u2019d prefer you can fill in the form below. You don\u2019t need to supply your real name, but please do leave contact details if you\u2019re happy for us to get in touch. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina election: are you happy with the result?"},{"date": "2015-12-01T10:00:16Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "As the presidency of Argentina\u2019s Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner enters its final days, her greatest \u2013 and arguably most controversial \u2013 legacy project is just getting under way in the remote grasslands of Patagonia.Here, amid herds of wild guanacos, condor nests and the occasional rhea, a Chinese-financed team of engineers will soon be dynamiting hillsides and pouring millions of tonnes of concrete for two giant hydroelectric dams that will flood an area the size of Buenos Aires. Related: As Argentina\u2019s Queen Cristina says farewell, her enemies wait in the wings The massive structures \u2013 spanning three kilometres (almost two miles) at the widest point \u2013 will transform Santa Cruz state, bringing jobs, money and development to the heartland of Kirchnerism \u2013 but also raising concerns about the growing influence of China and the effects on a region famed for its milky blue waters and spectacular glaciers.Although the environmental impact study for the $5.7bn scheme has yet to be announced and approved, preparatory work is already well under way beside the Santa Cruz river valley once explored by Charles Darwin. Dozens of huge Chinese dump trucks and drilling machines are now parked in the middle of the vast plain. Shafts and tunnels are being dug into the slopes near the main site. And a base camp \u2013 with canteens, game rooms and portable dormitories that still smell of fresh paint \u2013 has been established in the semi-wilderness.The conditions make it tough. In winter, temperatures can fall below -20C (-4F) and the ground is often buried under snow.\u201cThe main challenge is coping with Patagonia \u2013 because of the cold, the wind and the distances involved,\u201d says N\u00e9stor Ayala, the chief of construction at the site. \u201cIf you are short a single screw, you have to go 300km to the nearest hardware store.\u201dA few hundred workers are living at the site already, but within a year Ayala expects this temporary community to grow into a small town of more than 5,000 people.Cristina \u2013 as the president is best known here \u2013 will step down on 10 December, but the Kirchner name, fame and notoriety will live on in both the dam and its social, political and environmental consequences.True to her Peronist ideals, it is an ambitious nation-building, job-creating edifice. With an installed capacity of 1.7 gigawatts, the hydropower plant will be the biggest solely inside Argentina (there are larger dams, but they cross borders and are shared with neighbours). Fern\u00e1ndez has described it as \u201cthe most important hydroelectric project\u201d in the country\u2019s history.Yet this is also a profoundly dynastic project. One of the two dams will be called the N\u00e9stor Kirchner, after the president\u2019s deceased husband and predecessor in office. The region that will benefit most from the flood of hydropower cash and jobs is the Kirchners\u2019 political heartland of Santa Cruz state. The president has a home in the nearest town, El Calafate, and owns several local hotels. Her sister-in-law Alicia has just been elected state governor and her son M\u00e1ximo has secured a congressional seat here.\u201cPeople in Santa Cruz are grateful that Cristina put this place at the centre of political debate after decades of it being seen as the end of the world,\u201d said local journalist Ernesto Castillo. But approval is far from universal. Critics say the project is being rushed into being before the end of the president\u2019s term despite its immense geostrategic and environmental implications.Chinese banks are providing the financing: China Gezhouba Group will build the dam with an Argentinian partner Electroingenieria and then operate it for 20 years. After that, the dams will be handed over to the state government. It is the biggest of several huge investments that were agreed last year in a summit between Fern\u00e1ndez and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping. Other projects include two railways and a contentious satellite tracking base in Patagonia, which gives the Chinese military a space monitoring station in Argentina. There are also plans for China to build a nuclear power plant, although Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s centre-right successor, Mauricio Macri, has pledged to review this decision. Related: China's exploitation of Latin American natural resources raises concern Stronger links with China are in keeping both with the Peronist strategy of playing off superpowers against one another, and a more recent regional trend that has seen several governments in Latin America, including Brazil, Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia, forge closer ties with Beijing. In the case of the dam project, this has prompted alarm bordering on xenophobia. In an echo of the \u201cyellow peril\u201d prejudices of the past, some in sparsely populated Patagonia fear an influx of Chinese settlers. These concerns are ill-founded. Only 150 Chinese engineers will work on the project, less than 4% of the entire workforce. Of greater significance is the debate about whether Argentina is being sold short.Ariel Slipak, an economist at the Moreno University, said the president was guilty of short-term thinking in the deals she struck with Xi that will ultimately prove no better than the country\u2019s older unbalanced ties with the US and Europe. He believes China is financing the hydropower plant to ease energy shortages in Argentina so that it can import more oil from the country. The benefits, he said, would be for the business elite in both countries, while the consequences would be felt long after the change of president.\u201cCristina\u2019s legacy is to create a new relationship of dependency on China,\u201d he said. \u201cChina is not looking for a quick profit here. They are making a geostrategic move to secure resources.\u201dIn return, Argentina will get investment and another source of power \u2013 but not necessarily the one that suits its needs or geography. Environmental groups believe that instead of a giant dam, it would make far more sense to develop alternative energies in a region that is famous for gusts.\u201cSanta Cruz could be the Kuwait of wind power,\u201d said Emiliano Ezcurra of the Banco de Bosques (Forest Bank) environmental organisation. \u201cCristina could leave a legacy of breakthrough environmental technology. Instead, she\u2019ll leave behind a horrible scar on our beautiful land.\u201dThe greatest concern is the likely impact on wildlife and scenery. Santiago Imberti, a local conservationist, said the dam would flood the breeding and wintering sites of tens of thousands of birds, including the highly endangered hooded grebe \u2013 a native species of which there are only 800 left. Conservation groups launched a legal challenge against the project in October. They claim it was launched without the necessary environmental impact assessment; that it violates the national park law, which prohibits developments in protected areas; and that it is contrary to the glacier protection law, which forbids any activity that threatens the nation\u2019s ice fields. Fears have focused on the Perito Moreno glacier, a world heritage site and one of Argentina\u2019s best-loved tourist attractions. Located an hour\u2019s drive from El Calafate, the blue and white forest of frozen and gnarled crags stretches from distant mountains down to the turquoise waters of Lake Argentino. Every two to 12 years, the glacier blocks the lake until it ruptures spectacularly, drawing hordes of visitors.There have been worries that the dams could disrupt this cycle. Geraldo Bartolom\u00e9, a civil engineer, launched an online petition arguing that the constant lifting and falling of the reservoir water level would erode the ice bridge. After he collected more than 60,000 signatures, the dam\u2019s designers reconfigured the project so that the reservoir would not connect to Lake Argentino. This should protect the glacier, but Bartolom\u00e9 remains concerned that the project is being pushed through without due consideration for the consequences.\u201cNo serious environmental study has been done,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m an engineer. I\u2019m not against progress. But they have to prove they are not affecting the glacier.\u201dThis is denied by Electroingenieria. But regardless of the impact on the ice, the controversy over the dams looks set to rage on long after Fern\u00e1ndez leaves the presidential palace and moves back to El Calafate. In the years ahead, Patagonia will be opened up like never before. More settlers will arrive. More accommodation will be needed. Roads will have to be improved. A new high-tension power transmission line will be necessary to link the hydropower plants to Buenos Aires, 1,900 miles away. Once these are in place, industrial farming will be more feasible, mining will be cheaper and investments are likely in other power plants.For better or for worse, the \u201cend of the world\u201d will never be quite the same again. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Americas", "Hydropower", "Energy", "Environment", "Renewable energy", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Argentina leader leaves controversial legacy with Patagonia dams project"},{"date": "2015-12-10T11:58:22Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "With a massive turnout of teary-eyed crowds who filled the wide Plaza de Mayo square and overflowed down its adjoining avenues, Argentina bid farewell on Wednesday evening to its outgoing president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, perhaps the country\u2019s best-loved leader since the return of democracy 32 years ago.But as Argentina prepared to complete a tetchy handover on Thursday to the former Buenos Aires mayor, Mauricio Macri, supporters were already calling for her to come back and anticipating the political battles to follow succession. \u201cWe will return, we will return,\u201d chanted the tightly packed wall of supporters outside the Casa Rosada presidential palace. Many of them carried placards reading \u201cCristina 2019\u201d, expressing the hope that Fern\u00e1ndez might compete for a third term.Having already served twice, the leftwing leader was constitutionally barred from running in this year\u2019s contest, which was won by Macri of the centre-right Cambiemos alliance.The pro-business politician is expected to steer Argentina away from the populist economics of Fern\u00e1ndez and the alliances she wove with countries such as Russia, Cuba, Iran and Venezuela. He has said he will seek to restore former close ties with the US and Europe. Related: 'I'm hoping for better things to come': readers' views on Argentina's future Behind the thick walls of the Casa Rosada, the massive \u201cPink House\u201d facing the historic square from which she ruled Argentina for the last eight years, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s last act as president was to unveil a bust of her late husband, N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who preceded her in office in 2003 and stepped aside to let her become president in 2007 before dying of heart failure three years later.The Kirchners formed an unbeatable presidential tandem for 12 years, dividing Argentina between passionate supporters and ardent opponents of their \u201cnational and popular\u201d brand of government. Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s sendoff was typically passionate.\u201cI think she\u2019s exceptional, a brilliant woman,\u201d said schoolteacher Alicia Testai, who joined the throng on the Avenida de Mayo.With her marched Lea Braslavsky, an engineer who worked with the World Bank in Washington DC for 30 years but returned to Argentina after the Kirchners came to power. \u201cIt was a dream what was happening, how the country was able to stand on its feet again, the distribution of wealth, the empowerment of the people,\u201d Braslavsky said.A loud roar arose from the giant crowd as Fern\u00e1ndez emerged from the Casa Rosada to speak from a stage erected in front of the square. \u201cI can\u2019t talk long because I turn into a pumpkin at midnight,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez joked.The president was referring to a last-minute judicial injunction obtained by Macri that ruled her term over at midnight, instead of at noon on the day of the handover, as had traditionally been the case.The court order was the climax of a tense buildup to Thursday\u2019s inauguration, which has at times resembled a soap opera more than an orderly democratic transition. During the unseemly feud, Fern\u00e1ndez claimed she felt verbally abused as a woman in a heated phone argument with Macri over the inauguration arrangements.Macri had wanted Fern\u00e1ndez to present him the traditional silver-capped presidential baton at the Casa Rosada, as was the custom up until the 2003. Fern\u00e1ndez refused, insisting she would only hand over the ceremonial staff during his inauguration at the Congress building, as has been the custom for the last three presidential handovers.Had Macri accepted the outgoing president\u2019s proposal, he would have been deprived of what he hopes will be a triumphant ride in an open convertible down the 10 blocks from Congress after his inauguration to receive the baton in the Casa Rosada.Macri may also have been fearful that Fern\u00e1ndez would have received louder cheers in Congress because her FPV party has more legislators.Negotiations over the transition ceremony finally collapsed after an angry Fern\u00e1ndez fired off a cascade of tweets accusing Macri of screaming at her during a phone argument they had about the arrangements.\u201cI must confess I was surprised by the president-elect\u2019s exalted verbiage, a euphemism for screams,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted. \u201cTo the point that at one moment I had to remind him that, beyond our posts in office, he was a man and I a woman, and that it was out of place from him to treat me like that.\u201dThe phonecall, which Macri has not commented on, proved the last straw for the already brittle relationship between the two. \u201cI thought, that\u2019s as far as my love goes,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted.Fern\u00e1ndez was finally prevented from having the final say in the handover process when the court ended her term 12 hours ahead of time, with the unusual gap being filled by Federico Pinedo, the acting president of the Senate from Macri\u2019s Cambiemos alliance, who will now hand the baton to his party boss at the Casa Rosada as Macri wished.The squabbling between the two even descended to who gets to keep the Casa Rosada\u2019s official Twitter account. The account was changed on Wednesday to \u201cCasa Rosada 2003-2015, a Twitter tribute to presidents N\u00e9stor Kirchner and Cristina Kirchner\u201d in an attempt by Fern\u00e1ndez to prevent it from being turned over to Macri\u2019s administration.No fue magia... fue m\u00e1gico. pic.twitter.com/xKYKpIo0FhPress reports in Argentina, however, indicated that Twitter could turn over the account to the new government instead.Once all-powerful, with approval ratings that peaked over 70% at times, it is unlikely that Fern\u00e1ndez will fade quietly from public view. The farewell salute from her followers, unlike any known for an outgoing president in Argentina before, suggests she may not have to.\u201cHistory isn\u2019t written with a ruler, a carpenter\u2019s square or with a compass, it is not a straight line, it is an undulating line that sometimes seems to move backwards,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez said with reference to Macri\u2019s victory, which is seen by her and her supporters as a threat to the social programmes and progressive policies of her administration.Braslavsky, standing in the Plaza de Mayo to bid her cherished leader farewell, has no fear Fern\u00e1ndez will be gone too long. \u201cLook at all the people here today, that\u2019s how we know she will be back four years from now,\u201d she said smiling.  ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez exits stage left, but for how long?"},{"date": "2015-11-24T14:36:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After 12 years of leftist government, Argentina moved towards the centre-right on Sunday, as Buenos Aires mayor Mauricio Macri of the Cambiemos (Let\u2019s Change) party sealed victory in the country\u2019s presidential election. He will replace Christina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner in the Casa Rosada presidential palace, with the outgoing president stepping down from office on 10 December. Factors behind Macri\u2019s surprise victory include rising concerns among voters about increasing inflation, slowing growth and current crime rates. But opponents fear a return to the neoliberal policies of the 1990s that ended with the country\u2019s economic collapse in 2002, and also worry a vote for Macri could mark a weaker stance on human rights. The election result confirms a sharp change of direction for South America\u2019s second biggest economy, following 12 years of leftwing \u201cKirchnerism,\u201d and we\u2019d like to hear your reaction to the election result. What is the current mood like in Argentina? Are you happy with the result? In the wake of the result what are your hopes or concerns for the future of the country? You can share your experiences via GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019.If you\u2019d prefer you can fill in the form below. You don\u2019t need to supply your real name, but please do leave contact details if you\u2019re happy for us to get in touch. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina election: are you happy with the result?"},{"date": "2015-12-01T10:00:16Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "As the presidency of Argentina\u2019s Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner enters its final days, her greatest \u2013 and arguably most controversial \u2013 legacy project is just getting under way in the remote grasslands of Patagonia.Here, amid herds of wild guanacos, condor nests and the occasional rhea, a Chinese-financed team of engineers will soon be dynamiting hillsides and pouring millions of tonnes of concrete for two giant hydroelectric dams that will flood an area the size of Buenos Aires. Related: As Argentina\u2019s Queen Cristina says farewell, her enemies wait in the wings The massive structures \u2013 spanning three kilometres (almost two miles) at the widest point \u2013 will transform Santa Cruz state, bringing jobs, money and development to the heartland of Kirchnerism \u2013 but also raising concerns about the growing influence of China and the effects on a region famed for its milky blue waters and spectacular glaciers.Although the environmental impact study for the $5.7bn scheme has yet to be announced and approved, preparatory work is already well under way beside the Santa Cruz river valley once explored by Charles Darwin. Dozens of huge Chinese dump trucks and drilling machines are now parked in the middle of the vast plain. Shafts and tunnels are being dug into the slopes near the main site. And a base camp \u2013 with canteens, game rooms and portable dormitories that still smell of fresh paint \u2013 has been established in the semi-wilderness.The conditions make it tough. In winter, temperatures can fall below -20C (-4F) and the ground is often buried under snow.\u201cThe main challenge is coping with Patagonia \u2013 because of the cold, the wind and the distances involved,\u201d says N\u00e9stor Ayala, the chief of construction at the site. \u201cIf you are short a single screw, you have to go 300km to the nearest hardware store.\u201dA few hundred workers are living at the site already, but within a year Ayala expects this temporary community to grow into a small town of more than 5,000 people.Cristina \u2013 as the president is best known here \u2013 will step down on 10 December, but the Kirchner name, fame and notoriety will live on in both the dam and its social, political and environmental consequences.True to her Peronist ideals, it is an ambitious nation-building, job-creating edifice. With an installed capacity of 1.7 gigawatts, the hydropower plant will be the biggest solely inside Argentina (there are larger dams, but they cross borders and are shared with neighbours). Fern\u00e1ndez has described it as \u201cthe most important hydroelectric project\u201d in the country\u2019s history.Yet this is also a profoundly dynastic project. One of the two dams will be called the N\u00e9stor Kirchner, after the president\u2019s deceased husband and predecessor in office. The region that will benefit most from the flood of hydropower cash and jobs is the Kirchners\u2019 political heartland of Santa Cruz state. The president has a home in the nearest town, El Calafate, and owns several local hotels. Her sister-in-law Alicia has just been elected state governor and her son M\u00e1ximo has secured a congressional seat here.\u201cPeople in Santa Cruz are grateful that Cristina put this place at the centre of political debate after decades of it being seen as the end of the world,\u201d said local journalist Ernesto Castillo. But approval is far from universal. Critics say the project is being rushed into being before the end of the president\u2019s term despite its immense geostrategic and environmental implications.Chinese banks are providing the financing: China Gezhouba Group will build the dam with an Argentinian partner Electroingenieria and then operate it for 20 years. After that, the dams will be handed over to the state government. It is the biggest of several huge investments that were agreed last year in a summit between Fern\u00e1ndez and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping. Other projects include two railways and a contentious satellite tracking base in Patagonia, which gives the Chinese military a space monitoring station in Argentina. There are also plans for China to build a nuclear power plant, although Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s centre-right successor, Mauricio Macri, has pledged to review this decision. Related: China's exploitation of Latin American natural resources raises concern Stronger links with China are in keeping both with the Peronist strategy of playing off superpowers against one another, and a more recent regional trend that has seen several governments in Latin America, including Brazil, Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia, forge closer ties with Beijing. In the case of the dam project, this has prompted alarm bordering on xenophobia. In an echo of the \u201cyellow peril\u201d prejudices of the past, some in sparsely populated Patagonia fear an influx of Chinese settlers. These concerns are ill-founded. Only 150 Chinese engineers will work on the project, less than 4% of the entire workforce. Of greater significance is the debate about whether Argentina is being sold short.Ariel Slipak, an economist at the Moreno University, said the president was guilty of short-term thinking in the deals she struck with Xi that will ultimately prove no better than the country\u2019s older unbalanced ties with the US and Europe. He believes China is financing the hydropower plant to ease energy shortages in Argentina so that it can import more oil from the country. The benefits, he said, would be for the business elite in both countries, while the consequences would be felt long after the change of president.\u201cCristina\u2019s legacy is to create a new relationship of dependency on China,\u201d he said. \u201cChina is not looking for a quick profit here. They are making a geostrategic move to secure resources.\u201dIn return, Argentina will get investment and another source of power \u2013 but not necessarily the one that suits its needs or geography. Environmental groups believe that instead of a giant dam, it would make far more sense to develop alternative energies in a region that is famous for gusts.\u201cSanta Cruz could be the Kuwait of wind power,\u201d said Emiliano Ezcurra of the Banco de Bosques (Forest Bank) environmental organisation. \u201cCristina could leave a legacy of breakthrough environmental technology. Instead, she\u2019ll leave behind a horrible scar on our beautiful land.\u201dThe greatest concern is the likely impact on wildlife and scenery. Santiago Imberti, a local conservationist, said the dam would flood the breeding and wintering sites of tens of thousands of birds, including the highly endangered hooded grebe \u2013 a native species of which there are only 800 left. Conservation groups launched a legal challenge against the project in October. They claim it was launched without the necessary environmental impact assessment; that it violates the national park law, which prohibits developments in protected areas; and that it is contrary to the glacier protection law, which forbids any activity that threatens the nation\u2019s ice fields. Fears have focused on the Perito Moreno glacier, a world heritage site and one of Argentina\u2019s best-loved tourist attractions. Located an hour\u2019s drive from El Calafate, the blue and white forest of frozen and gnarled crags stretches from distant mountains down to the turquoise waters of Lake Argentino. Every two to 12 years, the glacier blocks the lake until it ruptures spectacularly, drawing hordes of visitors.There have been worries that the dams could disrupt this cycle. Geraldo Bartolom\u00e9, a civil engineer, launched an online petition arguing that the constant lifting and falling of the reservoir water level would erode the ice bridge. After he collected more than 60,000 signatures, the dam\u2019s designers reconfigured the project so that the reservoir would not connect to Lake Argentino. This should protect the glacier, but Bartolom\u00e9 remains concerned that the project is being pushed through without due consideration for the consequences.\u201cNo serious environmental study has been done,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m an engineer. I\u2019m not against progress. But they have to prove they are not affecting the glacier.\u201dThis is denied by Electroingenieria. But regardless of the impact on the ice, the controversy over the dams looks set to rage on long after Fern\u00e1ndez leaves the presidential palace and moves back to El Calafate. In the years ahead, Patagonia will be opened up like never before. More settlers will arrive. More accommodation will be needed. Roads will have to be improved. A new high-tension power transmission line will be necessary to link the hydropower plants to Buenos Aires, 1,900 miles away. Once these are in place, industrial farming will be more feasible, mining will be cheaper and investments are likely in other power plants.For better or for worse, the \u201cend of the world\u201d will never be quite the same again. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Americas", "Hydropower", "Energy", "Environment", "Renewable energy", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Argentina leader leaves controversial legacy with Patagonia dams project"},{"date": "2015-11-24T11:59:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two Falkland Islands oil exploration firms have announced a \u00a357m deal just hours after Argentina elected a leader with a milder attitude towards the territorial dispute with Britain over the islands.If the deal goes ahead, it will bring together two companies that have suffered some of the most precipitous declines in stock market value in recent years.Rockhopper Exploration said it had agreed an all-share takeover of Falklands Oil & Gas (FOGL) that values the target company at \u00a357m.The combined firm would own the largest oil exploration licence in the offshore area north of the Falklands, where an expected oil bonanza has so far failed to materialise.The Falklands were once seen as the next frontier for major oil discoveries, but excitement has fizzled out as well after well came up dry or not commercially viable.The disappointment prompted shares in Rockhopper to slump 93% from a peak of \u00a35.10 in September 2010 to just 35p. Related: Argentina president-elect pledges radical policy changes in shift to right FOGL has plunged even further, down from \u00a32.43 in July 2010 to less than 10p on Monday, a slide of 96%.Rockhopper was worth more than \u00a31.3bn at its peak but has since declined to a little more than \u00a3100m, while FOGL\u2019s stock market value has fallen from \u00a3350m to \u00a350m.Rockhopper\u2019s chairman, Pierre Jungels, said that by coming together, the two firms had a better chance of making a commercial success out of their presence in the rough south Atlantic waters.He said the deal would \u201cadd further momentum to the ongoing work to progress the development of discovered resources in the area towards commerciality\u201d.The takeover was announced within 24 hours of businessman Mauricio Macri being elected as president in Argentina.Outgoing president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner was a bitter and vocal critic of the UK claim over the Falklands.Her administration threatened earlier this year to prosecute British firms seeking to extract oil in the disputed area.But Macri has taken a more conciliatory tone, and his victory has been seen as a positive for foreign firms struggling with Argentina\u2019s difficult business climate.Sources close to the deal said it was \u201cnot unhelpful\u201d that Kirchner was leaving but added that the takeover was triggered more by FOGL\u2019s lack of success with its Humpback well.Success would have sent FOGL\u2019s share price soaring and the disappointing result allowed the two firms \u2013 which are already partners in a number of wells \u2013 to proceed with a tie-up.Premier Oil owns 60% of Rockhopper\u2019s licences in the Sea Lion area, an arrangement that adds complexity for firms looking at a potential \u201cfarm-in\u201d, where a company takes part in exploration and shares costs with the licence holder.Rockhopper and FOGL hope that by tidying up ownership of licences in the north Falklands, they can better attract farm-in partners to develop Sea Lion and other prospects.They said the enlarged group would have \u201csignificantly more strategic influence over the pace and direction of oil and gas development in the North Falkland Basin than they would have as two stand-alone entities\u201d.The takeover values FOGL at \u00a357m, an 11% premium to its Monday closing price. Rockhopper investors will own 65% of the combined company.", "tags": ["Oil and gas companies", "Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Oil", "Business", "Energy industry", "World news", "Americas", "Commodities", "UK news"], "title": "Falkland Islands oil firms announce deal after Argentina election"},{"date": "2015-12-10T11:58:22Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "With a massive turnout of teary-eyed crowds who filled the wide Plaza de Mayo square and overflowed down its adjoining avenues, Argentina bid farewell on Wednesday evening to its outgoing president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner, perhaps the country\u2019s best-loved leader since the return of democracy 32 years ago.But as Argentina prepared to complete a tetchy handover on Thursday to the former Buenos Aires mayor, Mauricio Macri, supporters were already calling for her to come back and anticipating the political battles to follow succession. \u201cWe will return, we will return,\u201d chanted the tightly packed wall of supporters outside the Casa Rosada presidential palace. Many of them carried placards reading \u201cCristina 2019\u201d, expressing the hope that Fern\u00e1ndez might compete for a third term.Having already served twice, the leftwing leader was constitutionally barred from running in this year\u2019s contest, which was won by Macri of the centre-right Cambiemos alliance.The pro-business politician is expected to steer Argentina away from the populist economics of Fern\u00e1ndez and the alliances she wove with countries such as Russia, Cuba, Iran and Venezuela. He has said he will seek to restore former close ties with the US and Europe. Related: 'I'm hoping for better things to come': readers' views on Argentina's future Behind the thick walls of the Casa Rosada, the massive \u201cPink House\u201d facing the historic square from which she ruled Argentina for the last eight years, Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s last act as president was to unveil a bust of her late husband, N\u00e9stor Kirchner, who preceded her in office in 2003 and stepped aside to let her become president in 2007 before dying of heart failure three years later.The Kirchners formed an unbeatable presidential tandem for 12 years, dividing Argentina between passionate supporters and ardent opponents of their \u201cnational and popular\u201d brand of government. Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s sendoff was typically passionate.\u201cI think she\u2019s exceptional, a brilliant woman,\u201d said schoolteacher Alicia Testai, who joined the throng on the Avenida de Mayo.With her marched Lea Braslavsky, an engineer who worked with the World Bank in Washington DC for 30 years but returned to Argentina after the Kirchners came to power. \u201cIt was a dream what was happening, how the country was able to stand on its feet again, the distribution of wealth, the empowerment of the people,\u201d Braslavsky said.A loud roar arose from the giant crowd as Fern\u00e1ndez emerged from the Casa Rosada to speak from a stage erected in front of the square. \u201cI can\u2019t talk long because I turn into a pumpkin at midnight,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez joked.The president was referring to a last-minute judicial injunction obtained by Macri that ruled her term over at midnight, instead of at noon on the day of the handover, as had traditionally been the case.The court order was the climax of a tense buildup to Thursday\u2019s inauguration, which has at times resembled a soap opera more than an orderly democratic transition. During the unseemly feud, Fern\u00e1ndez claimed she felt verbally abused as a woman in a heated phone argument with Macri over the inauguration arrangements.Macri had wanted Fern\u00e1ndez to present him the traditional silver-capped presidential baton at the Casa Rosada, as was the custom up until the 2003. Fern\u00e1ndez refused, insisting she would only hand over the ceremonial staff during his inauguration at the Congress building, as has been the custom for the last three presidential handovers.Had Macri accepted the outgoing president\u2019s proposal, he would have been deprived of what he hopes will be a triumphant ride in an open convertible down the 10 blocks from Congress after his inauguration to receive the baton in the Casa Rosada.Macri may also have been fearful that Fern\u00e1ndez would have received louder cheers in Congress because her FPV party has more legislators.Negotiations over the transition ceremony finally collapsed after an angry Fern\u00e1ndez fired off a cascade of tweets accusing Macri of screaming at her during a phone argument they had about the arrangements.\u201cI must confess I was surprised by the president-elect\u2019s exalted verbiage, a euphemism for screams,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted. \u201cTo the point that at one moment I had to remind him that, beyond our posts in office, he was a man and I a woman, and that it was out of place from him to treat me like that.\u201dThe phonecall, which Macri has not commented on, proved the last straw for the already brittle relationship between the two. \u201cI thought, that\u2019s as far as my love goes,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez tweeted.Fern\u00e1ndez was finally prevented from having the final say in the handover process when the court ended her term 12 hours ahead of time, with the unusual gap being filled by Federico Pinedo, the acting president of the Senate from Macri\u2019s Cambiemos alliance, who will now hand the baton to his party boss at the Casa Rosada as Macri wished.The squabbling between the two even descended to who gets to keep the Casa Rosada\u2019s official Twitter account. The account was changed on Wednesday to \u201cCasa Rosada 2003-2015, a Twitter tribute to presidents N\u00e9stor Kirchner and Cristina Kirchner\u201d in an attempt by Fern\u00e1ndez to prevent it from being turned over to Macri\u2019s administration.No fue magia... fue m\u00e1gico. pic.twitter.com/xKYKpIo0FhPress reports in Argentina, however, indicated that Twitter could turn over the account to the new government instead.Once all-powerful, with approval ratings that peaked over 70% at times, it is unlikely that Fern\u00e1ndez will fade quietly from public view. The farewell salute from her followers, unlike any known for an outgoing president in Argentina before, suggests she may not have to.\u201cHistory isn\u2019t written with a ruler, a carpenter\u2019s square or with a compass, it is not a straight line, it is an undulating line that sometimes seems to move backwards,\u201d Fern\u00e1ndez said with reference to Macri\u2019s victory, which is seen by her and her supporters as a threat to the social programmes and progressive policies of her administration.Braslavsky, standing in the Plaza de Mayo to bid her cherished leader farewell, has no fear Fern\u00e1ndez will be gone too long. \u201cLook at all the people here today, that\u2019s how we know she will be back four years from now,\u201d she said smiling.  ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina: Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez exits stage left, but for how long?"},{"date": "2015-11-24T14:36:45Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "After 12 years of leftist government, Argentina moved towards the centre-right on Sunday, as Buenos Aires mayor Mauricio Macri of the Cambiemos (Let\u2019s Change) party sealed victory in the country\u2019s presidential election. He will replace Christina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner in the Casa Rosada presidential palace, with the outgoing president stepping down from office on 10 December. Factors behind Macri\u2019s surprise victory include rising concerns among voters about increasing inflation, slowing growth and current crime rates. But opponents fear a return to the neoliberal policies of the 1990s that ended with the country\u2019s economic collapse in 2002, and also worry a vote for Macri could mark a weaker stance on human rights. The election result confirms a sharp change of direction for South America\u2019s second biggest economy, following 12 years of leftwing \u201cKirchnerism,\u201d and we\u2019d like to hear your reaction to the election result. What is the current mood like in Argentina? Are you happy with the result? In the wake of the result what are your hopes or concerns for the future of the country? You can share your experiences via GuardianWitness by clicking on the blue \u2018Contribute\u2019 button on this article. You can also use the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019.If you\u2019d prefer you can fill in the form below. You don\u2019t need to supply your real name, but please do leave contact details if you\u2019re happy for us to get in touch. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Argentina election: are you happy with the result?"},{"date": "2015-12-01T10:00:16Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "As the presidency of Argentina\u2019s Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner enters its final days, her greatest \u2013 and arguably most controversial \u2013 legacy project is just getting under way in the remote grasslands of Patagonia.Here, amid herds of wild guanacos, condor nests and the occasional rhea, a Chinese-financed team of engineers will soon be dynamiting hillsides and pouring millions of tonnes of concrete for two giant hydroelectric dams that will flood an area the size of Buenos Aires. Related: As Argentina\u2019s Queen Cristina says farewell, her enemies wait in the wings The massive structures \u2013 spanning three kilometres (almost two miles) at the widest point \u2013 will transform Santa Cruz state, bringing jobs, money and development to the heartland of Kirchnerism \u2013 but also raising concerns about the growing influence of China and the effects on a region famed for its milky blue waters and spectacular glaciers.Although the environmental impact study for the $5.7bn scheme has yet to be announced and approved, preparatory work is already well under way beside the Santa Cruz river valley once explored by Charles Darwin. Dozens of huge Chinese dump trucks and drilling machines are now parked in the middle of the vast plain. Shafts and tunnels are being dug into the slopes near the main site. And a base camp \u2013 with canteens, game rooms and portable dormitories that still smell of fresh paint \u2013 has been established in the semi-wilderness.The conditions make it tough. In winter, temperatures can fall below -20C (-4F) and the ground is often buried under snow.\u201cThe main challenge is coping with Patagonia \u2013 because of the cold, the wind and the distances involved,\u201d says N\u00e9stor Ayala, the chief of construction at the site. \u201cIf you are short a single screw, you have to go 300km to the nearest hardware store.\u201dA few hundred workers are living at the site already, but within a year Ayala expects this temporary community to grow into a small town of more than 5,000 people.Cristina \u2013 as the president is best known here \u2013 will step down on 10 December, but the Kirchner name, fame and notoriety will live on in both the dam and its social, political and environmental consequences.True to her Peronist ideals, it is an ambitious nation-building, job-creating edifice. With an installed capacity of 1.7 gigawatts, the hydropower plant will be the biggest solely inside Argentina (there are larger dams, but they cross borders and are shared with neighbours). Fern\u00e1ndez has described it as \u201cthe most important hydroelectric project\u201d in the country\u2019s history.Yet this is also a profoundly dynastic project. One of the two dams will be called the N\u00e9stor Kirchner, after the president\u2019s deceased husband and predecessor in office. The region that will benefit most from the flood of hydropower cash and jobs is the Kirchners\u2019 political heartland of Santa Cruz state. The president has a home in the nearest town, El Calafate, and owns several local hotels. Her sister-in-law Alicia has just been elected state governor and her son M\u00e1ximo has secured a congressional seat here.\u201cPeople in Santa Cruz are grateful that Cristina put this place at the centre of political debate after decades of it being seen as the end of the world,\u201d said local journalist Ernesto Castillo. But approval is far from universal. Critics say the project is being rushed into being before the end of the president\u2019s term despite its immense geostrategic and environmental implications.Chinese banks are providing the financing: China Gezhouba Group will build the dam with an Argentinian partner Electroingenieria and then operate it for 20 years. After that, the dams will be handed over to the state government. It is the biggest of several huge investments that were agreed last year in a summit between Fern\u00e1ndez and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping. Other projects include two railways and a contentious satellite tracking base in Patagonia, which gives the Chinese military a space monitoring station in Argentina. There are also plans for China to build a nuclear power plant, although Fern\u00e1ndez\u2019s centre-right successor, Mauricio Macri, has pledged to review this decision. Related: China's exploitation of Latin American natural resources raises concern Stronger links with China are in keeping both with the Peronist strategy of playing off superpowers against one another, and a more recent regional trend that has seen several governments in Latin America, including Brazil, Venezuela, Ecuador and Bolivia, forge closer ties with Beijing. In the case of the dam project, this has prompted alarm bordering on xenophobia. In an echo of the \u201cyellow peril\u201d prejudices of the past, some in sparsely populated Patagonia fear an influx of Chinese settlers. These concerns are ill-founded. Only 150 Chinese engineers will work on the project, less than 4% of the entire workforce. Of greater significance is the debate about whether Argentina is being sold short.Ariel Slipak, an economist at the Moreno University, said the president was guilty of short-term thinking in the deals she struck with Xi that will ultimately prove no better than the country\u2019s older unbalanced ties with the US and Europe. He believes China is financing the hydropower plant to ease energy shortages in Argentina so that it can import more oil from the country. The benefits, he said, would be for the business elite in both countries, while the consequences would be felt long after the change of president.\u201cCristina\u2019s legacy is to create a new relationship of dependency on China,\u201d he said. \u201cChina is not looking for a quick profit here. They are making a geostrategic move to secure resources.\u201dIn return, Argentina will get investment and another source of power \u2013 but not necessarily the one that suits its needs or geography. Environmental groups believe that instead of a giant dam, it would make far more sense to develop alternative energies in a region that is famous for gusts.\u201cSanta Cruz could be the Kuwait of wind power,\u201d said Emiliano Ezcurra of the Banco de Bosques (Forest Bank) environmental organisation. \u201cCristina could leave a legacy of breakthrough environmental technology. Instead, she\u2019ll leave behind a horrible scar on our beautiful land.\u201dThe greatest concern is the likely impact on wildlife and scenery. Santiago Imberti, a local conservationist, said the dam would flood the breeding and wintering sites of tens of thousands of birds, including the highly endangered hooded grebe \u2013 a native species of which there are only 800 left. Conservation groups launched a legal challenge against the project in October. They claim it was launched without the necessary environmental impact assessment; that it violates the national park law, which prohibits developments in protected areas; and that it is contrary to the glacier protection law, which forbids any activity that threatens the nation\u2019s ice fields. Fears have focused on the Perito Moreno glacier, a world heritage site and one of Argentina\u2019s best-loved tourist attractions. Located an hour\u2019s drive from El Calafate, the blue and white forest of frozen and gnarled crags stretches from distant mountains down to the turquoise waters of Lake Argentino. Every two to 12 years, the glacier blocks the lake until it ruptures spectacularly, drawing hordes of visitors.There have been worries that the dams could disrupt this cycle. Geraldo Bartolom\u00e9, a civil engineer, launched an online petition arguing that the constant lifting and falling of the reservoir water level would erode the ice bridge. After he collected more than 60,000 signatures, the dam\u2019s designers reconfigured the project so that the reservoir would not connect to Lake Argentino. This should protect the glacier, but Bartolom\u00e9 remains concerned that the project is being pushed through without due consideration for the consequences.\u201cNo serious environmental study has been done,\u201d he said. \u201cI\u2019m an engineer. I\u2019m not against progress. But they have to prove they are not affecting the glacier.\u201dThis is denied by Electroingenieria. But regardless of the impact on the ice, the controversy over the dams looks set to rage on long after Fern\u00e1ndez leaves the presidential palace and moves back to El Calafate. In the years ahead, Patagonia will be opened up like never before. More settlers will arrive. More accommodation will be needed. Roads will have to be improved. A new high-tension power transmission line will be necessary to link the hydropower plants to Buenos Aires, 1,900 miles away. Once these are in place, industrial farming will be more feasible, mining will be cheaper and investments are likely in other power plants.For better or for worse, the \u201cend of the world\u201d will never be quite the same again. ", "tags": ["Argentina", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner", "World news", "Americas", "Hydropower", "Energy", "Environment", "Renewable energy", "China", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Argentina leader leaves controversial legacy with Patagonia dams project"},{"date": "2015-11-24T11:59:01Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "Two Falkland Islands oil exploration firms have announced a \u00a357m deal just hours after Argentina elected a leader with a milder attitude towards the territorial dispute with Britain over the islands.If the deal goes ahead, it will bring together two companies that have suffered some of the most precipitous declines in stock market value in recent years.Rockhopper Exploration said it had agreed an all-share takeover of Falklands Oil & Gas (FOGL) that values the target company at \u00a357m.The combined firm would own the largest oil exploration licence in the offshore area north of the Falklands, where an expected oil bonanza has so far failed to materialise.The Falklands were once seen as the next frontier for major oil discoveries, but excitement has fizzled out as well after well came up dry or not commercially viable.The disappointment prompted shares in Rockhopper to slump 93% from a peak of \u00a35.10 in September 2010 to just 35p. Related: Argentina president-elect pledges radical policy changes in shift to right FOGL has plunged even further, down from \u00a32.43 in July 2010 to less than 10p on Monday, a slide of 96%.Rockhopper was worth more than \u00a31.3bn at its peak but has since declined to a little more than \u00a3100m, while FOGL\u2019s stock market value has fallen from \u00a3350m to \u00a350m.Rockhopper\u2019s chairman, Pierre Jungels, said that by coming together, the two firms had a better chance of making a commercial success out of their presence in the rough south Atlantic waters.He said the deal would \u201cadd further momentum to the ongoing work to progress the development of discovered resources in the area towards commerciality\u201d.The takeover was announced within 24 hours of businessman Mauricio Macri being elected as president in Argentina.Outgoing president Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner was a bitter and vocal critic of the UK claim over the Falklands.Her administration threatened earlier this year to prosecute British firms seeking to extract oil in the disputed area.But Macri has taken a more conciliatory tone, and his victory has been seen as a positive for foreign firms struggling with Argentina\u2019s difficult business climate.Sources close to the deal said it was \u201cnot unhelpful\u201d that Kirchner was leaving but added that the takeover was triggered more by FOGL\u2019s lack of success with its Humpback well.Success would have sent FOGL\u2019s share price soaring and the disappointing result allowed the two firms \u2013 which are already partners in a number of wells \u2013 to proceed with a tie-up.Premier Oil owns 60% of Rockhopper\u2019s licences in the Sea Lion area, an arrangement that adds complexity for firms looking at a potential \u201cfarm-in\u201d, where a company takes part in exploration and shares costs with the licence holder.Rockhopper and FOGL hope that by tidying up ownership of licences in the north Falklands, they can better attract farm-in partners to develop Sea Lion and other prospects.They said the enlarged group would have \u201csignificantly more strategic influence over the pace and direction of oil and gas development in the North Falkland Basin than they would have as two stand-alone entities\u201d.The takeover values FOGL at \u00a357m, an 11% premium to its Monday closing price. Rockhopper investors will own 65% of the combined company.", "tags": ["Oil and gas companies", "Falkland Islands", "Argentina", "Oil", "Business", "Energy industry", "World news", "Americas", "Commodities", "UK news"], "title": "Falkland Islands oil firms announce deal after Argentina election"},{"date": "2015-11-22T09:12:28Z", "country": "argentina", "content": "From the snow-capped mountains of Patagonia to the plains of Gran Chaco, Argentina\u2019s 32 million eligible voters go to the polls on Sunday to choose a successor to the outgoing president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner.Polls suggest the country\u2019s first presidential runoff could result in a sharp change of direction for South America\u2019s second biggest economy, following 12 years of populist, leftwing \u201cKirchnerism\u201d. Related: As Argentina\u2019s Queen Cristina says farewell, her enemies wait in the wings Coming from behind, Buenos Aires mayor Mauricio Macri of the centre-right Cambiemos (Let\u2019s Change) party, is at least 5 percentage points ahead of the Fern\u00e1ndez candidate, Daniel Scioli, according to latest polls.However, the polls were unreliable in the first round, which Scioli was expected to win comfortably. To the shock of many, however, Scioli garnered a lead of just 2.5 points, and has since struggled to secure the support of the eliminated candidates and undecided voters, leaving him with ground to make up on the final day.The consequences of a change could be enormous. Macri has promised to introduce more pro-business policies, reduce inflation, cut deals with foreign creditors and realign Argentina\u2019s foreign policy away from Venezuela and Iran and closer to the US. He has also indicated that he will adopt a less confrontational stance over the Falkland Islands.Instead, he has promised better management to improve living conditions. At the close of his campaign in distant Humahuaca, Macri told the crowd he would \u201cwork every day for you to have a better life\u201d. Scioli, by contrast, held his final rally in the Buenos Aires stronghold of La Matanza, declaring himself the enemy of the \u201csavage capitalism\u201d represented by his rival.The campaign has been peaceful, but as the prospect of a possible defeat for the ruling camp has sunk in, the decibels of vitriol hurled at Macri have increased. Street graffiti and Facebook and Twitter feeds have been repeating a simple, hard message spray-painted and posted: \u201cLove, yes. Macri, no.\u201dCritics fear Macri plans a return to the neo-liberal policies of the now almost universally reviled former president Carlos Menem in the 1990s, when state utilities were privatised and huge numbers of state employees were laid off as part of a free market programme that ended with economic collapse in 2002.The chaos of that period ended in 2003 with the presidency of Nestor Kirchner, who was succeeded by his wife. Elected during a \u201cpink tide\u201d of leftist administrations in Latin America, the Kirchners initially made impressive gains, securing deals with most of Argentina\u2019s creditors, reducing inequality, boosting employment and supporting closer regional integration. However, with Nestor\u2019s death in 2010, Argentina\u2019s economy has lost momentum, inflation has surged to around 30% and poverty appears to be creeping back. Fern\u00e1ndez has also fought a series of bruising battles with the country\u2019s biggest media group, Clarin. Voters heading to polling booths in schools, universities and other public buildings on Sunday will be weighing up whether Scioli or Macri can improve the situation.\u201cWe need a change,\u201d said Luciana Esteruelas, a hotel employee who plans to vote against the ruling camp. \u201cCristina did some good things in the beginning. But there have been more problems in the last few years. It\u2019s time to give someone else a chance.\u201dOthers fear a vote for Macri could mark a weaker stance on human rights, particularly regarding the victims of Argentina\u2019s 1976-83 dictatorship. \u201cI will vote for Scioli, convinced I will be doing the right thing,\u201d said V\u00edctor Basterra, a survivor of the former ESMA navy school where some 5,000 people were murdered in the 1970s. \u201cTo do the opposite would be a kind of suicide\u201d.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Americas", "World news", "Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner"], "title": "Argentina election: second round vote could spell end for 'Kirchnerism'"}]