{"date": "2008-03-15T11:52:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI last night interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said yesterday: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo! Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said last night: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media business", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Technology", "Media", "Money", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo leaves London for Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-15T11:52:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI last night interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said yesterday: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo! Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said last night: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media business", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Technology", "Media", "Money", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo leaves London for Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-14T18:32:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI tonight interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said today: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Media", "Technology", "Business", "Internet", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo moves European HQ from London to Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-15T11:52:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI last night interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said yesterday: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo! Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said last night: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media business", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Technology", "Media", "Money", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo leaves London for Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-14T18:32:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI tonight interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said today: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Media", "Technology", "Business", "Internet", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo moves European HQ from London to Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-09T00:03:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "FranceFresh snow and low temperatures have improved conditions, though strong winds have left some runs exposed. Bar\u00e8ges-La Mongie saw 40cm of snow, while Cauterets and Font Romeu in the French Pyrenees had 50cm. Further snowfalls are expected.AustriaWinter wonderland conditions returned after bumper snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with improvements particularly obvious on lower slopes. Bad Gastein, Axamer Lizum and Kaprun are among resorts with good powder. More snow is forecast.SwitzerlandHeavy snowfall has transformed some resorts into powder paradises, including Gstaad, Wengen, Engelberg and Grindelwald. Around half a metre of fresh snowfall is forecast for the beginning of this week.ItalySome resorts report fresh snow, while others have hard-packed pistes. Alagna is waiting for fresh falls after nearly a month without snow, but Canazei and Selva Gardena are enjoying powder conditions. Over 20cm of fresh snow is expected this weekend.United StatesWarm weather has brought spring-like conditions to Vermont and California, particularly Squaw Valley. Elsewhere, resorts in states such as Utah and Colorado have seen fresh snowfalls and are now enjoying excellent conditions. Big Sky in Montana has had constant snowfall providing good powder skiing. Light snowfalls and sunny weather are predicted this week.CanadaConsistent snowfalls in eastern Canadian resorts have left soft powder. Conditions are good in Blue Mountain, Tremblant and Big White. Up to half a metre of snow is expected at many resorts in the east, with light snow and sunny spells elsewhere.\u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Italy holidays", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow  report"},{"date": "2008-03-15T11:52:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI last night interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said yesterday: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo! Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said last night: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media business", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Technology", "Media", "Money", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo leaves London for Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-14T18:32:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI tonight interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said today: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Media", "Technology", "Business", "Internet", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo moves European HQ from London to Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-09T00:03:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "FranceFresh snow and low temperatures have improved conditions, though strong winds have left some runs exposed. Bar\u00e8ges-La Mongie saw 40cm of snow, while Cauterets and Font Romeu in the French Pyrenees had 50cm. Further snowfalls are expected.AustriaWinter wonderland conditions returned after bumper snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with improvements particularly obvious on lower slopes. Bad Gastein, Axamer Lizum and Kaprun are among resorts with good powder. More snow is forecast.SwitzerlandHeavy snowfall has transformed some resorts into powder paradises, including Gstaad, Wengen, Engelberg and Grindelwald. Around half a metre of fresh snowfall is forecast for the beginning of this week.ItalySome resorts report fresh snow, while others have hard-packed pistes. Alagna is waiting for fresh falls after nearly a month without snow, but Canazei and Selva Gardena are enjoying powder conditions. Over 20cm of fresh snow is expected this weekend.United StatesWarm weather has brought spring-like conditions to Vermont and California, particularly Squaw Valley. Elsewhere, resorts in states such as Utah and Colorado have seen fresh snowfalls and are now enjoying excellent conditions. Big Sky in Montana has had constant snowfall providing good powder skiing. Light snowfalls and sunny weather are predicted this week.CanadaConsistent snowfalls in eastern Canadian resorts have left soft powder. Conditions are good in Blue Mountain, Tremblant and Big White. Up to half a metre of snow is expected at many resorts in the east, with light snow and sunny spells elsewhere.\u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Italy holidays", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow  report"},{"date": "2008-02-10T00:36:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "FranceMost resorts have seen some snow and conditions are generally excellent, although strong winds have caused some lifts to shut. Warm weather and sunny skies are forecast for this week. AustriaSnow has been falling in Austria, with excellent powder skiing on upper slopes. Conditions at Kitzb\u00fchel and Kirchenberg have benefited from 27cm of new snow. Sunny weather forecast.SwitzerlandThere has been good snow, but warm weather has left slushy conditions on lower slopes at some resorts. After 20cm of snow in Davos/Klosters, conditions are excellent, with sunny weather expected. ItalyMost resorts have seen snowfall of between 10cm and 20cm this week, with low temperatures helping skiing conditions. Uninterrupted sunshine is forecast for the rest of this week. BulgariaLight snowfall has improved skiing conditions, and more is forecast, with Borovets expecting the most.United StatesGood snowfall continues and with temperatures around -10C, conditions are superb. Stowe, in Vermont, saw 50cm on Wednesday; further, lighter, snowfalls are forecast for most American resorts.CanadaThere have been heavy snowfalls in most Canadian resorts, and more is forecast. Chilcotin Mountain Range has 80cm of fresh powder, while Blue Mountain has 50cm. More snow is expected this week, particularly in Whistler. \u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-03-15T11:52:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI last night interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said yesterday: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo! Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said last night: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media business", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Technology", "Media", "Money", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo leaves London for Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-14T18:32:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI tonight interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said today: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Media", "Technology", "Business", "Internet", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo moves European HQ from London to Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-09T00:03:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "FranceFresh snow and low temperatures have improved conditions, though strong winds have left some runs exposed. Bar\u00e8ges-La Mongie saw 40cm of snow, while Cauterets and Font Romeu in the French Pyrenees had 50cm. Further snowfalls are expected.AustriaWinter wonderland conditions returned after bumper snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with improvements particularly obvious on lower slopes. Bad Gastein, Axamer Lizum and Kaprun are among resorts with good powder. More snow is forecast.SwitzerlandHeavy snowfall has transformed some resorts into powder paradises, including Gstaad, Wengen, Engelberg and Grindelwald. Around half a metre of fresh snowfall is forecast for the beginning of this week.ItalySome resorts report fresh snow, while others have hard-packed pistes. Alagna is waiting for fresh falls after nearly a month without snow, but Canazei and Selva Gardena are enjoying powder conditions. Over 20cm of fresh snow is expected this weekend.United StatesWarm weather has brought spring-like conditions to Vermont and California, particularly Squaw Valley. Elsewhere, resorts in states such as Utah and Colorado have seen fresh snowfalls and are now enjoying excellent conditions. Big Sky in Montana has had constant snowfall providing good powder skiing. Light snowfalls and sunny weather are predicted this week.CanadaConsistent snowfalls in eastern Canadian resorts have left soft powder. Conditions are good in Blue Mountain, Tremblant and Big White. Up to half a metre of snow is expected at many resorts in the east, with light snow and sunny spells elsewhere.\u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Italy holidays", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow  report"},{"date": "2008-02-10T00:36:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "FranceMost resorts have seen some snow and conditions are generally excellent, although strong winds have caused some lifts to shut. Warm weather and sunny skies are forecast for this week. AustriaSnow has been falling in Austria, with excellent powder skiing on upper slopes. Conditions at Kitzb\u00fchel and Kirchenberg have benefited from 27cm of new snow. Sunny weather forecast.SwitzerlandThere has been good snow, but warm weather has left slushy conditions on lower slopes at some resorts. After 20cm of snow in Davos/Klosters, conditions are excellent, with sunny weather expected. ItalyMost resorts have seen snowfall of between 10cm and 20cm this week, with low temperatures helping skiing conditions. Uninterrupted sunshine is forecast for the rest of this week. BulgariaLight snowfall has improved skiing conditions, and more is forecast, with Borovets expecting the most.United StatesGood snowfall continues and with temperatures around -10C, conditions are superb. Stowe, in Vermont, saw 50cm on Wednesday; further, lighter, snowfalls are forecast for most American resorts.CanadaThere have been heavy snowfalls in most Canadian resorts, and more is forecast. Chilcotin Mountain Range has 80cm of fresh powder, while Blue Mountain has 50cm. More snow is expected this week, particularly in Whistler. \u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-01-20T11:09:50Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Snow fell throughout last week, with the southern Alps and Pyrenees benefiting the most. Flaine got 30cm of snow on Wednesday, Val d'Is\u00e8re and Samoens got 20cm on Thursday. There is excellent powder skiing in Chamonix, La Plagne, Les Arcs and Val Thorens. However this year's heavy snow has come at a cost - 26 people have died in avalanches in the Alps since the new year. Take care. Between 10cm and 20cm of fresh snow fell late last week, with the Innsbruck area and western resorts doing best. St Anton now has an impressive 235cm snow depth at the top, while Ischgl is reporting powder conditions even on-piste.Less snow in Switzerland, although Zermatt did well with around 20cm of new snow on Wednesday. The sun was due to return today after small falls of under 10cm late last week.Some huge falls in the middle of last week - the little resort of Chiesa got 60cm, while the Milky Way resorts got 40cm. Sun is forecast today and early this week.Steady daily falls of 20cm have added up to some huge overall snow depths - Timberline has 368cm at the top. Between 20cm and 30cm more is forecast for the western resorts this weekend. The east coast resorts have good conditions, even if with far less snow than out west. Fabulous conditions in British Columbia - Whistler has 242cm at the top, while Revelstoke has had 48cm in the past week. East coast resorts such as Tremblant and Mont-Sainte-Anne are forecasting up to 30cm this weekend.\u00b7 Data courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (www.skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Travel", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Italy holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-03-15T11:52:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI last night interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said yesterday: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo! Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said last night: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Internet", "Digital media", "Media business", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Business", "Technology", "Media", "Money", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo leaves London for Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-14T18:32:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Yahoo, one of the world's leading technology companies, has intensified the debate about Britain's ability to hang on to big business by announcing it is moving its European headquarters from London to Switzerland.In a move that the business lobby group CBI tonight interpreted as underlining an increasingly \"uncompetitive\" UK tax system, Yahoo said that it had started work on the relocation to save money.The US company, fighting off a takeover attempt by software group Microsoft, is under pressure to cut costs and appease investors as it struggles to regain its previous web clout in the face of competition from Google.Yahoo said today: \"This decision is part of our ongoing international business strategy to increase competitiveness, deliver financial results, performance and efficiencies. Yahoo Europe remains committed to maintaining a strong presence in all of its key markets in Europe.\"The move is expected to take around 18 months and to affect around 5% of Yahoo's workforce in Europe.The embattled company's emphasis on \"efficiencies\" and \"competitiveness\" echoes big companies' reluctance in recent years to locate key offices in Britain. Google has just opened its European engineering headquarters in Switzerland.Yahoo's news follows an in-depth report by the CBI into the UK's tax system, in which it warned a radical shake-up was needed to win back Britain's status as a competitive place to put businesses.CBI director-general Richard Lambert said: \"We are deeply concerned that the UK corporate tax system is becoming uncompetitive and, without knowing the detail, this sounds like another sign of that.\"The CBI wants a simplified corporate tax system, including a headline corporation tax rate of 18% within eight years and simpler book-keeping requirements.A recent survey by accountancy firm KPMG blamed complex rules and a mass of legislation for putting the UK in the bottom half of a league table of the most attractive places to do business in Europe.The study put Cyprus, Ireland and Switzerland top for their combination of easy-to-understand rules, low tax rates and stable fiscal laws. The UK came 12th out of 22 countries for the attractiveness of their domestic tax regimes.Other reports have suggested the UK's lack of competitiveness is intensifying. The latest annual global report from the World Economic Forum put Britain in ninth place in the world league for overall competitiveness, down from second place the year before.But the Treasury argues that reforms to the tax and regulatory regimes make the UK attractive. It stresses the UK has set the lowest corporation tax rate in the G7 group of industrialised countries.A spokesman said: \"As a result of measures introduced by the government, the UK is one of the most competitive economies in the world and one of the best places in the world to do business, with continued rising investment in education, skills, R&D and business infrastructure.\"", "tags": ["Technology sector", "Yahoo", "Media", "Technology", "Business", "Internet", "Internet", " phones & broadband", "Tax", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo moves European HQ from London to Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-03-09T00:03:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "FranceFresh snow and low temperatures have improved conditions, though strong winds have left some runs exposed. Bar\u00e8ges-La Mongie saw 40cm of snow, while Cauterets and Font Romeu in the French Pyrenees had 50cm. Further snowfalls are expected.AustriaWinter wonderland conditions returned after bumper snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with improvements particularly obvious on lower slopes. Bad Gastein, Axamer Lizum and Kaprun are among resorts with good powder. More snow is forecast.SwitzerlandHeavy snowfall has transformed some resorts into powder paradises, including Gstaad, Wengen, Engelberg and Grindelwald. Around half a metre of fresh snowfall is forecast for the beginning of this week.ItalySome resorts report fresh snow, while others have hard-packed pistes. Alagna is waiting for fresh falls after nearly a month without snow, but Canazei and Selva Gardena are enjoying powder conditions. Over 20cm of fresh snow is expected this weekend.United StatesWarm weather has brought spring-like conditions to Vermont and California, particularly Squaw Valley. Elsewhere, resorts in states such as Utah and Colorado have seen fresh snowfalls and are now enjoying excellent conditions. Big Sky in Montana has had constant snowfall providing good powder skiing. Light snowfalls and sunny weather are predicted this week.CanadaConsistent snowfalls in eastern Canadian resorts have left soft powder. Conditions are good in Blue Mountain, Tremblant and Big White. Up to half a metre of snow is expected at many resorts in the east, with light snow and sunny spells elsewhere.\u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Italy holidays", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow  report"},{"date": "2008-02-10T00:36:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "FranceMost resorts have seen some snow and conditions are generally excellent, although strong winds have caused some lifts to shut. Warm weather and sunny skies are forecast for this week. AustriaSnow has been falling in Austria, with excellent powder skiing on upper slopes. Conditions at Kitzb\u00fchel and Kirchenberg have benefited from 27cm of new snow. Sunny weather forecast.SwitzerlandThere has been good snow, but warm weather has left slushy conditions on lower slopes at some resorts. After 20cm of snow in Davos/Klosters, conditions are excellent, with sunny weather expected. ItalyMost resorts have seen snowfall of between 10cm and 20cm this week, with low temperatures helping skiing conditions. Uninterrupted sunshine is forecast for the rest of this week. BulgariaLight snowfall has improved skiing conditions, and more is forecast, with Borovets expecting the most.United StatesGood snowfall continues and with temperatures around -10C, conditions are superb. Stowe, in Vermont, saw 50cm on Wednesday; further, lighter, snowfalls are forecast for most American resorts.CanadaThere have been heavy snowfalls in most Canadian resorts, and more is forecast. Chilcotin Mountain Range has 80cm of fresh powder, while Blue Mountain has 50cm. More snow is expected this week, particularly in Whistler. \u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-01-20T11:09:50Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Snow fell throughout last week, with the southern Alps and Pyrenees benefiting the most. Flaine got 30cm of snow on Wednesday, Val d'Is\u00e8re and Samoens got 20cm on Thursday. There is excellent powder skiing in Chamonix, La Plagne, Les Arcs and Val Thorens. However this year's heavy snow has come at a cost - 26 people have died in avalanches in the Alps since the new year. Take care. Between 10cm and 20cm of fresh snow fell late last week, with the Innsbruck area and western resorts doing best. St Anton now has an impressive 235cm snow depth at the top, while Ischgl is reporting powder conditions even on-piste.Less snow in Switzerland, although Zermatt did well with around 20cm of new snow on Wednesday. The sun was due to return today after small falls of under 10cm late last week.Some huge falls in the middle of last week - the little resort of Chiesa got 60cm, while the Milky Way resorts got 40cm. Sun is forecast today and early this week.Steady daily falls of 20cm have added up to some huge overall snow depths - Timberline has 368cm at the top. Between 20cm and 30cm more is forecast for the western resorts this weekend. The east coast resorts have good conditions, even if with far less snow than out west. Fabulous conditions in British Columbia - Whistler has 242cm at the top, while Revelstoke has had 48cm in the past week. East coast resorts such as Tremblant and Mont-Sainte-Anne are forecasting up to 30cm this weekend.\u00b7 Data courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (www.skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Travel", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Italy holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-03-14T14:29:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "\"Yahoo Inc said Thursday it is moving its European headquarters to Switzerland from London,\" reports AP. \"One person close to the move - understood to be called Project Yodel - said it was made for corporate tax reasons,\" says the Financial Times, adding:Yahoo already has a strong yodelling connection, including a corporate blog, Yodel Anecdotal.", "tags": ["Internet", "Technology", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Yahoo moving from London to the land of the yodel"},{"date": "2008-07-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya has been taking \"worrying retaliatory measures\" against Switzerland since the arrest of the youngest son of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy, for allegedly beating two of his servants, the Swiss foreign ministry said yesterday.It said Swiss citizens should cease travel to the country immediately. Libya has recalled some of its diplomats in Switzerland, suspended the issuing of visas for Swiss citizens, reduced flights to Switzerland and detained two Swiss nationals on various charges, the ministry said.\"Swiss companies in Libya have received orders to close, and some company offices have been sealed,\" it added.Swiss International Air Lines said Libya had restricted its flights to one a week following the arrest of Hannibal Gadafy. Libya also announced a similar cut in the flights of the Libyan airline Afriqiyah to Geneva, the airport disclosed.Hannibal Gadafy and his wife were arrested last week after an incident at a Geneva hotel. They were released on bail two days later and left the country. The daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve reported that two of Gadafy's servants claimed Gadafy, 32, and his wife beat them at the hotel with a belt and a hanger. Lawyer Alain Berger said Gadafy and his wife rejected the allegations.Switzerland has sent a diplomatic delegation to Tripoli to give the Libyan authorities more details on the arrest and \"to prevent a crisis between the two countries\", the foreign ministry said.", "tags": ["Libya", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Switzerland: Libya hits back after arrest of Gadafy's son"},{"date": "2008-07-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya has been taking \"worrying retaliatory measures\" against Switzerland since the arrest of the youngest son of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy, for allegedly beating two of his servants, the Swiss foreign ministry said yesterday.It said Swiss citizens should cease travel to the country immediately. Libya has recalled some of its diplomats in Switzerland, suspended the issuing of visas for Swiss citizens, reduced flights to Switzerland and detained two Swiss nationals on various charges, the ministry said.\"Swiss companies in Libya have received orders to close, and some company offices have been sealed,\" it added.Swiss International Air Lines said Libya had restricted its flights to one a week following the arrest of Hannibal Gadafy. Libya also announced a similar cut in the flights of the Libyan airline Afriqiyah to Geneva, the airport disclosed.Hannibal Gadafy and his wife were arrested last week after an incident at a Geneva hotel. They were released on bail two days later and left the country. The daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve reported that two of Gadafy's servants claimed Gadafy, 32, and his wife beat them at the hotel with a belt and a hanger. Lawyer Alain Berger said Gadafy and his wife rejected the allegations.Switzerland has sent a diplomatic delegation to Tripoli to give the Libyan authorities more details on the arrest and \"to prevent a crisis between the two countries\", the foreign ministry said.", "tags": ["Libya", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Switzerland: Libya hits back after arrest of Gadafy's son"},{"date": "2008-09-26T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Like many skiers and snowboarders, I'm instinctively drawn to big-name resorts that boast hundreds of kilometres of piste. But often, on getting there, I feel like I've been hoodwinked. Slow, shuffling lift queues, overcrowded runs ... the sheer number of people renders piste-mileage figures meaningless. I also find that spending a week in one resort can dull the senses as you hit the same trails again and again. So last season, I devised an alternative to the standard one-week-one-big-resort holiday - a rail ski safari to several small ones. The fact that it would be greener made it even more appealing.Europe's rail network can speed a skier to hundreds of destinations all over the continent, but with its picturesque mountain railways and 243 ski resorts (many with stations), Switzerland was the obvious choice.When I felt the weight of my friend Grant's snowboard bag, though, I wondered whether it would be as easy as it first seemed. In the coming fortnight, we'd be hauling our luggage on and off 16 trains. I had visions of our adventure turning into a shoulder-torturing schlep, with Grant eventually crushed beneath the weight of his bag gasping: \"You go ahead without me ... I'll only slow you down ... \" Our first destination, Engelberg in central Switzerland, was just under 11 hours from St Pancras - door to door the journey didn't take much longer than it would by plane. The French countryside slipped away and the ground became blanketed in snow, as if in the space of a few hours spring had turned to winter. On either side, mountains loomed in the dusk and the huge expanse of Lake Zurich came into view on our left. Engelberg has a loyal following of experienced Swedish skiers and snowboarders who save up at home all summer so they can ski there all winter, without having to work. Looking out from the top of the 3,028m Mount Titlis on our first morning we could see why: in every direction, expansive off-piste is accessible without any hiking, though the crevasse-riddled terrain means it's wise to ski with a guide. We avoided crevasses, but still ended up lodged in ice, at Iglu-Dorf, an igloo hotel halfway up Titlis. The cavernous, candlelit rooms had sheepskin rugs, Jacuzzis and a bar serving gl\u00fchwein. We took a guided snow-shoe walk in the dark, gazing down from the edge of a cliff at the twinkling lights of the town, 1,800m beneath us. And we stayed warm and comfortable all night, though, much as I like Grant, the romantic atmosphere would be better experienced with a lover, not a friend. After another day on the slopes we headed to Meiringen, two hours west, in a carriage full of suited Swiss commuters. Meiringen's slopes aren't visible from the village and, with so few people heading up on the cable-car next morning, we assumed the skiing would be tame. But as we ascended, an impressive panorama of empty pistes covered in soft snow unfolded before us. \"People don't really come to smaller resorts like this except at weekends and holidays,\" explained Marcus, a Swiss skier from nearby Bern. Halfway along a red run, we were stopped in our tracks, Road Runner-cartoon style, by the incredible sight of a body somersaulting above us, and dropping, upside down, out of sight below. We had chanced upon the practice session of a team of professional aerial ski jumpers. One of them was the 2006 Olympic champion, Evelyne Leu. By coincidence, we ended up in the same gondola as Leu on the way back to the village. \"We practise these jumps into lakes during the summer, for safety,\" she said. Safety being a relative term. Searching the town for apr\u00e8s-ski, we found a bronze statue of Sherlock Holmes, who was fictionally pushed off a cliff (or not) by arch-rival Moriarty at the nearby Reichenbach waterfall, and has a small museum dedicated to him.Nightlife in these small resorts is limited to cosy bars, especially midweek; so our solution was to go off-brief to party in Zermatt, Switzerland's stellar resort, for a couple of nights. By day we battled through blizzards to rustic mountain restaurants, including Chez Vroni, a snug cabin with homemade sausages dangling from the ceiling in the tiny hamlet of Findeln. Leaving Zermatt the next morning, we realised it's a mistake to travel between resorts in the evening. Through the huge windows of the Glacier Express we were treated to the spectacle of a snowy St Gotthard valley, which runs from Zermatt to Andermatt. For an hour, cross-country skiers glided along a path next to the track.Within an hour of reaching Andermatt, we were ascending Gemsstock mountain in the only cable car to access a phenomenal off-piste area. Next, Disentis, an hour down the line but a very different region of Switzerland, where people speak a Romanche dialect, not German. Disentis is presided over by a Benedictine monastery, its cream walls glowing pink in the late afternoon sun. It had been four days since the last snowfall, but with too few people to track it out, powder remained in abundance, right next to the pistes. All too soon we were heading east to our final destination, Pontresina, a pretty resort next to St Moritz. Any regrets about taking one of our last trains melted when we boarded a 75-year-old wood-panelled dining carriage, redolent of the Orient Express, wit h tables set with wine glasses, folded cloth napkins and candles. The dining cars on Swiss trains are typically excellent waiter-service restaurants, but here the baby-leaf salad, polenta, ratatouille and hake in breadcrumbs surpassed the rest. The train clattered through the beautiful Rheinschlucht valley, known as the Grand Canyon of Switzerland, past hilltop villages, a turquoise river, and otherworldly grey rock formations. Two glorious days' cruising Pontresina's long, sweeping runs ended with a blissful soak in Europe's highest outdoor Jacuzzi, in front of the excellent Berghaus restaurant at the 2,978m summit of Diavolezza - more proof that settling for less piste does not mean compromising on altitude. The next morning, reluctantly boarding a homebound train, I thought back over our trip. While a normal ski holiday can fast-forward to the end, each day blending into the next, the varied nature of our ski safari had made it feel like an epic adventure. I took a last glimpse down the railway track where, further along the line, dozens of other small, deserted resorts were waiting to be discovered. \u2022 Getting there London to Paris by Eurostar (from \u00a359 rtn) then Paris to Basel (from \u00a338 rtn) then an InterRail Switzerland pass (\u00a3168) giving eight days' travel within a one-month period. Book through Rail Europe (0844 848 4070, raileurope.co.uk). \u2022 Where to stay Hotel Garni Hostatt in Engelberg (hostatt.ch), doubles from \u00a337pp B&B. Iglu Dorf Engelberg (iglu-dorf.com) from \u00a378pp. Sporthotel Sherlock Holmes in Meiringen (sherlock.ch), doubles from \u00a387 half-board. Hotel Perren in Zermatt (hotel-perren.ch), doubles from \u00a354pp B&B. Hotel Drei Koenige & Post in Andermatt (3koenige.ch), doubles from \u00a3136 B&B. Hotel Sax in Disentis (hotelsax.ch), doubles from \u00a349 half-board. Hotel Allegra in Pontresina (allegrahotel.ch), doubles from \u00a3125 B&B. More information myswitzerland.com.Les Arcs, FranceThe most convenient Alpine train destination is the Tarentaise valley. A Friday night Eurostar runs all the way to Bourg-St-Maurice, arriving Saturday morning. (NB There are no couchettes - take earplugs, eyemask and pillow.) Taxis and the odd bus go to Val d'Is\u00e8re and Tignes and a funicular links the station to Les Arcs. \u2022 Erna Low (0845 863 0525, ernalow .co.uk) offers 7 nights in a two-bedroom Radisson SAS apartment in the newest village, Arc 1950, from \u00a3331pp inc train travel.M\u00e9ribel, FranceThere are two other stations along the Tarentaise valley with access to ski areas; Aime, for La Plagne, and Moutiers, for the Trois Vall\u00e9es. The shortest road transfer is Moutiers to M\u00e9ribel - about 20 minutes. \u2022 First Choice (firstchoice-ski.co.uk, 0871 664 0130) offers seven nights' half-board in the Chalet Renardeaux, from \u00a3679pp, inc train.Kitzb\u00fchel, AustriaMedieval Kitzb\u00fchel, spa town Bad Gastein, and lakeside Zell am See are served every week by the Bergland Express from Aachen, Germany (reached by Friday afternoon Eurostar to Brussels and a short connection). \u2022 European Rail (erail.co.uk, 020-7619 1080) offers seven nights at the 3-star Minotel Resch in Kitzb\u00fchel, inc Eurostar and 6-berth couchette on the Bergland, from \u00a3593pp. La Molina, SpainThe Pyrenees are harder to reach than the Alps by train - there's no railway in Andorra, for example - but it's not too tricky to reach the pretty town of Puigcerd\u00e0, in Catalonia, via Toulouse. The stylish spa hotel, Hospes Villa Paulita, in an art nouveau building, is an attractive base, 15km away at the linked areas of La Molina and Masella. \u2022 Double rooms from \u00a3110 room-only (0034 972 884 662, hospes.es). Return rail tickets from \u00a3169pp (eurostar.com).Grindelwald, SwitzerlandLeaving from London on Eurostar at 8am, travelling via Paris and Basel, you can be in Grindelwald at 6.40pm - and it's a beautiful journey, to the foot of the Eiger - there's even a tunnel through it! \u2022 Inghams (020-8780 4433, inghams .co.uk) offers 7 nights' half-board in the 3-star Hotel Hirschen from \u00a3588pp, inc train.Aviemore, ScotlandIn good conditions (don't book too far in advance), the Cairngorms can be fun for a weekend, and it's cheap, especially with an Adventure Pass (visitscotland.com/adventurepass). \u2022 Aviemore's traditional Cairngorm Hotel (\u00a344pp B&B, cairngorm.com) is opposite the station, from where a bus runs to the ski hill. Super off-peak return with National Express (nationalexpress.com) from London \u00a3117, from Newcastle \u00a381.St Anton, AustriaThe Bergland Express continues from Kitzb\u00fchel to St Anton, one of Europe's greatest ski areas with extreme skiing and unbeatable partying. Regular Post buses link to Lech and Z\u00fcrs as well. \u00b7 European Rail (020-7619 1080, erail.co.uk) offers London-St Anton for \u00a3213pp in a 6-berth couchette. The cool Hotel Banyan (banyan-hotel.com) costs from \u20ac75pp pn B&B.Bardonecchia, ItalyThe Dolomites are a schlep by rail, but there is a good Paris-Turin connection, stopping in Oulx (for Sauze d'Oulx and the 400km Milky Way ski area) and the market town/ski resort Bardonecchia, which hosted snowboarding at the 2006 Olympics. It has 110km of mainly intermediate skiing.\u2022 London-Bardonecchia, from \u00a3109pp with European Rail. Seven nights' half-board at the Villa Myosotis, from \u00a3350pp, with Alpine Answers (020-7801 1080, alpineanswers.co.uk).Chris Madigan ", "tags": ["Top 100 ski breaks", "Skiing holidays", "Rail travel", "Hotels", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "A rail ski safari in Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-07-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya has been taking \"worrying retaliatory measures\" against Switzerland since the arrest of the youngest son of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy, for allegedly beating two of his servants, the Swiss foreign ministry said yesterday.It said Swiss citizens should cease travel to the country immediately. Libya has recalled some of its diplomats in Switzerland, suspended the issuing of visas for Swiss citizens, reduced flights to Switzerland and detained two Swiss nationals on various charges, the ministry said.\"Swiss companies in Libya have received orders to close, and some company offices have been sealed,\" it added.Swiss International Air Lines said Libya had restricted its flights to one a week following the arrest of Hannibal Gadafy. Libya also announced a similar cut in the flights of the Libyan airline Afriqiyah to Geneva, the airport disclosed.Hannibal Gadafy and his wife were arrested last week after an incident at a Geneva hotel. They were released on bail two days later and left the country. The daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve reported that two of Gadafy's servants claimed Gadafy, 32, and his wife beat them at the hotel with a belt and a hanger. Lawyer Alain Berger said Gadafy and his wife rejected the allegations.Switzerland has sent a diplomatic delegation to Tripoli to give the Libyan authorities more details on the arrest and \"to prevent a crisis between the two countries\", the foreign ministry said.", "tags": ["Libya", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Switzerland: Libya hits back after arrest of Gadafy's son"},{"date": "2008-09-26T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Like many skiers and snowboarders, I'm instinctively drawn to big-name resorts that boast hundreds of kilometres of piste. But often, on getting there, I feel like I've been hoodwinked. Slow, shuffling lift queues, overcrowded runs ... the sheer number of people renders piste-mileage figures meaningless. I also find that spending a week in one resort can dull the senses as you hit the same trails again and again. So last season, I devised an alternative to the standard one-week-one-big-resort holiday - a rail ski safari to several small ones. The fact that it would be greener made it even more appealing.Europe's rail network can speed a skier to hundreds of destinations all over the continent, but with its picturesque mountain railways and 243 ski resorts (many with stations), Switzerland was the obvious choice.When I felt the weight of my friend Grant's snowboard bag, though, I wondered whether it would be as easy as it first seemed. In the coming fortnight, we'd be hauling our luggage on and off 16 trains. I had visions of our adventure turning into a shoulder-torturing schlep, with Grant eventually crushed beneath the weight of his bag gasping: \"You go ahead without me ... I'll only slow you down ... \" Our first destination, Engelberg in central Switzerland, was just under 11 hours from St Pancras - door to door the journey didn't take much longer than it would by plane. The French countryside slipped away and the ground became blanketed in snow, as if in the space of a few hours spring had turned to winter. On either side, mountains loomed in the dusk and the huge expanse of Lake Zurich came into view on our left. Engelberg has a loyal following of experienced Swedish skiers and snowboarders who save up at home all summer so they can ski there all winter, without having to work. Looking out from the top of the 3,028m Mount Titlis on our first morning we could see why: in every direction, expansive off-piste is accessible without any hiking, though the crevasse-riddled terrain means it's wise to ski with a guide. We avoided crevasses, but still ended up lodged in ice, at Iglu-Dorf, an igloo hotel halfway up Titlis. The cavernous, candlelit rooms had sheepskin rugs, Jacuzzis and a bar serving gl\u00fchwein. We took a guided snow-shoe walk in the dark, gazing down from the edge of a cliff at the twinkling lights of the town, 1,800m beneath us. And we stayed warm and comfortable all night, though, much as I like Grant, the romantic atmosphere would be better experienced with a lover, not a friend. After another day on the slopes we headed to Meiringen, two hours west, in a carriage full of suited Swiss commuters. Meiringen's slopes aren't visible from the village and, with so few people heading up on the cable-car next morning, we assumed the skiing would be tame. But as we ascended, an impressive panorama of empty pistes covered in soft snow unfolded before us. \"People don't really come to smaller resorts like this except at weekends and holidays,\" explained Marcus, a Swiss skier from nearby Bern. Halfway along a red run, we were stopped in our tracks, Road Runner-cartoon style, by the incredible sight of a body somersaulting above us, and dropping, upside down, out of sight below. We had chanced upon the practice session of a team of professional aerial ski jumpers. One of them was the 2006 Olympic champion, Evelyne Leu. By coincidence, we ended up in the same gondola as Leu on the way back to the village. \"We practise these jumps into lakes during the summer, for safety,\" she said. Safety being a relative term. Searching the town for apr\u00e8s-ski, we found a bronze statue of Sherlock Holmes, who was fictionally pushed off a cliff (or not) by arch-rival Moriarty at the nearby Reichenbach waterfall, and has a small museum dedicated to him.Nightlife in these small resorts is limited to cosy bars, especially midweek; so our solution was to go off-brief to party in Zermatt, Switzerland's stellar resort, for a couple of nights. By day we battled through blizzards to rustic mountain restaurants, including Chez Vroni, a snug cabin with homemade sausages dangling from the ceiling in the tiny hamlet of Findeln. Leaving Zermatt the next morning, we realised it's a mistake to travel between resorts in the evening. Through the huge windows of the Glacier Express we were treated to the spectacle of a snowy St Gotthard valley, which runs from Zermatt to Andermatt. For an hour, cross-country skiers glided along a path next to the track.Within an hour of reaching Andermatt, we were ascending Gemsstock mountain in the only cable car to access a phenomenal off-piste area. Next, Disentis, an hour down the line but a very different region of Switzerland, where people speak a Romanche dialect, not German. Disentis is presided over by a Benedictine monastery, its cream walls glowing pink in the late afternoon sun. It had been four days since the last snowfall, but with too few people to track it out, powder remained in abundance, right next to the pistes. All too soon we were heading east to our final destination, Pontresina, a pretty resort next to St Moritz. Any regrets about taking one of our last trains melted when we boarded a 75-year-old wood-panelled dining carriage, redolent of the Orient Express, wit h tables set with wine glasses, folded cloth napkins and candles. The dining cars on Swiss trains are typically excellent waiter-service restaurants, but here the baby-leaf salad, polenta, ratatouille and hake in breadcrumbs surpassed the rest. The train clattered through the beautiful Rheinschlucht valley, known as the Grand Canyon of Switzerland, past hilltop villages, a turquoise river, and otherworldly grey rock formations. Two glorious days' cruising Pontresina's long, sweeping runs ended with a blissful soak in Europe's highest outdoor Jacuzzi, in front of the excellent Berghaus restaurant at the 2,978m summit of Diavolezza - more proof that settling for less piste does not mean compromising on altitude. The next morning, reluctantly boarding a homebound train, I thought back over our trip. While a normal ski holiday can fast-forward to the end, each day blending into the next, the varied nature of our ski safari had made it feel like an epic adventure. I took a last glimpse down the railway track where, further along the line, dozens of other small, deserted resorts were waiting to be discovered. \u2022 Getting there London to Paris by Eurostar (from \u00a359 rtn) then Paris to Basel (from \u00a338 rtn) then an InterRail Switzerland pass (\u00a3168) giving eight days' travel within a one-month period. Book through Rail Europe (0844 848 4070, raileurope.co.uk). \u2022 Where to stay Hotel Garni Hostatt in Engelberg (hostatt.ch), doubles from \u00a337pp B&B. Iglu Dorf Engelberg (iglu-dorf.com) from \u00a378pp. Sporthotel Sherlock Holmes in Meiringen (sherlock.ch), doubles from \u00a387 half-board. Hotel Perren in Zermatt (hotel-perren.ch), doubles from \u00a354pp B&B. Hotel Drei Koenige & Post in Andermatt (3koenige.ch), doubles from \u00a3136 B&B. Hotel Sax in Disentis (hotelsax.ch), doubles from \u00a349 half-board. Hotel Allegra in Pontresina (allegrahotel.ch), doubles from \u00a3125 B&B. More information myswitzerland.com.Les Arcs, FranceThe most convenient Alpine train destination is the Tarentaise valley. A Friday night Eurostar runs all the way to Bourg-St-Maurice, arriving Saturday morning. (NB There are no couchettes - take earplugs, eyemask and pillow.) Taxis and the odd bus go to Val d'Is\u00e8re and Tignes and a funicular links the station to Les Arcs. \u2022 Erna Low (0845 863 0525, ernalow .co.uk) offers 7 nights in a two-bedroom Radisson SAS apartment in the newest village, Arc 1950, from \u00a3331pp inc train travel.M\u00e9ribel, FranceThere are two other stations along the Tarentaise valley with access to ski areas; Aime, for La Plagne, and Moutiers, for the Trois Vall\u00e9es. The shortest road transfer is Moutiers to M\u00e9ribel - about 20 minutes. \u2022 First Choice (firstchoice-ski.co.uk, 0871 664 0130) offers seven nights' half-board in the Chalet Renardeaux, from \u00a3679pp, inc train.Kitzb\u00fchel, AustriaMedieval Kitzb\u00fchel, spa town Bad Gastein, and lakeside Zell am See are served every week by the Bergland Express from Aachen, Germany (reached by Friday afternoon Eurostar to Brussels and a short connection). \u2022 European Rail (erail.co.uk, 020-7619 1080) offers seven nights at the 3-star Minotel Resch in Kitzb\u00fchel, inc Eurostar and 6-berth couchette on the Bergland, from \u00a3593pp. La Molina, SpainThe Pyrenees are harder to reach than the Alps by train - there's no railway in Andorra, for example - but it's not too tricky to reach the pretty town of Puigcerd\u00e0, in Catalonia, via Toulouse. The stylish spa hotel, Hospes Villa Paulita, in an art nouveau building, is an attractive base, 15km away at the linked areas of La Molina and Masella. \u2022 Double rooms from \u00a3110 room-only (0034 972 884 662, hospes.es). Return rail tickets from \u00a3169pp (eurostar.com).Grindelwald, SwitzerlandLeaving from London on Eurostar at 8am, travelling via Paris and Basel, you can be in Grindelwald at 6.40pm - and it's a beautiful journey, to the foot of the Eiger - there's even a tunnel through it! \u2022 Inghams (020-8780 4433, inghams .co.uk) offers 7 nights' half-board in the 3-star Hotel Hirschen from \u00a3588pp, inc train.Aviemore, ScotlandIn good conditions (don't book too far in advance), the Cairngorms can be fun for a weekend, and it's cheap, especially with an Adventure Pass (visitscotland.com/adventurepass). \u2022 Aviemore's traditional Cairngorm Hotel (\u00a344pp B&B, cairngorm.com) is opposite the station, from where a bus runs to the ski hill. Super off-peak return with National Express (nationalexpress.com) from London \u00a3117, from Newcastle \u00a381.St Anton, AustriaThe Bergland Express continues from Kitzb\u00fchel to St Anton, one of Europe's greatest ski areas with extreme skiing and unbeatable partying. Regular Post buses link to Lech and Z\u00fcrs as well. \u00b7 European Rail (020-7619 1080, erail.co.uk) offers London-St Anton for \u00a3213pp in a 6-berth couchette. The cool Hotel Banyan (banyan-hotel.com) costs from \u20ac75pp pn B&B.Bardonecchia, ItalyThe Dolomites are a schlep by rail, but there is a good Paris-Turin connection, stopping in Oulx (for Sauze d'Oulx and the 400km Milky Way ski area) and the market town/ski resort Bardonecchia, which hosted snowboarding at the 2006 Olympics. It has 110km of mainly intermediate skiing.\u2022 London-Bardonecchia, from \u00a3109pp with European Rail. Seven nights' half-board at the Villa Myosotis, from \u00a3350pp, with Alpine Answers (020-7801 1080, alpineanswers.co.uk).Chris Madigan ", "tags": ["Top 100 ski breaks", "Skiing holidays", "Rail travel", "Hotels", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "A rail ski safari in Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-08-27T12:18:19Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Next week, finally, the Large Hadron Collider will finally kick into action at Cern in Switzerland - bringing the untold secrets of physics to light (and, if you believe some people, bringing the universe to an end).Thankfully you don't have to be an idle observer of this amazing launch - because with this handy operating manual for the LHC, you can join in by learning how to run the machine yourself.(via Make)", "tags": ["Technology"], "title": "HOWTO operate the Large Hadron Collider"},{"date": "2008-07-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya has been taking \"worrying retaliatory measures\" against Switzerland since the arrest of the youngest son of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy, for allegedly beating two of his servants, the Swiss foreign ministry said yesterday.It said Swiss citizens should cease travel to the country immediately. Libya has recalled some of its diplomats in Switzerland, suspended the issuing of visas for Swiss citizens, reduced flights to Switzerland and detained two Swiss nationals on various charges, the ministry said.\"Swiss companies in Libya have received orders to close, and some company offices have been sealed,\" it added.Swiss International Air Lines said Libya had restricted its flights to one a week following the arrest of Hannibal Gadafy. Libya also announced a similar cut in the flights of the Libyan airline Afriqiyah to Geneva, the airport disclosed.Hannibal Gadafy and his wife were arrested last week after an incident at a Geneva hotel. They were released on bail two days later and left the country. The daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve reported that two of Gadafy's servants claimed Gadafy, 32, and his wife beat them at the hotel with a belt and a hanger. Lawyer Alain Berger said Gadafy and his wife rejected the allegations.Switzerland has sent a diplomatic delegation to Tripoli to give the Libyan authorities more details on the arrest and \"to prevent a crisis between the two countries\", the foreign ministry said.", "tags": ["Libya", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Switzerland: Libya hits back after arrest of Gadafy's son"},{"date": "2008-09-26T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Like many skiers and snowboarders, I'm instinctively drawn to big-name resorts that boast hundreds of kilometres of piste. But often, on getting there, I feel like I've been hoodwinked. Slow, shuffling lift queues, overcrowded runs ... the sheer number of people renders piste-mileage figures meaningless. I also find that spending a week in one resort can dull the senses as you hit the same trails again and again. So last season, I devised an alternative to the standard one-week-one-big-resort holiday - a rail ski safari to several small ones. The fact that it would be greener made it even more appealing.Europe's rail network can speed a skier to hundreds of destinations all over the continent, but with its picturesque mountain railways and 243 ski resorts (many with stations), Switzerland was the obvious choice.When I felt the weight of my friend Grant's snowboard bag, though, I wondered whether it would be as easy as it first seemed. In the coming fortnight, we'd be hauling our luggage on and off 16 trains. I had visions of our adventure turning into a shoulder-torturing schlep, with Grant eventually crushed beneath the weight of his bag gasping: \"You go ahead without me ... I'll only slow you down ... \" Our first destination, Engelberg in central Switzerland, was just under 11 hours from St Pancras - door to door the journey didn't take much longer than it would by plane. The French countryside slipped away and the ground became blanketed in snow, as if in the space of a few hours spring had turned to winter. On either side, mountains loomed in the dusk and the huge expanse of Lake Zurich came into view on our left. Engelberg has a loyal following of experienced Swedish skiers and snowboarders who save up at home all summer so they can ski there all winter, without having to work. Looking out from the top of the 3,028m Mount Titlis on our first morning we could see why: in every direction, expansive off-piste is accessible without any hiking, though the crevasse-riddled terrain means it's wise to ski with a guide. We avoided crevasses, but still ended up lodged in ice, at Iglu-Dorf, an igloo hotel halfway up Titlis. The cavernous, candlelit rooms had sheepskin rugs, Jacuzzis and a bar serving gl\u00fchwein. We took a guided snow-shoe walk in the dark, gazing down from the edge of a cliff at the twinkling lights of the town, 1,800m beneath us. And we stayed warm and comfortable all night, though, much as I like Grant, the romantic atmosphere would be better experienced with a lover, not a friend. After another day on the slopes we headed to Meiringen, two hours west, in a carriage full of suited Swiss commuters. Meiringen's slopes aren't visible from the village and, with so few people heading up on the cable-car next morning, we assumed the skiing would be tame. But as we ascended, an impressive panorama of empty pistes covered in soft snow unfolded before us. \"People don't really come to smaller resorts like this except at weekends and holidays,\" explained Marcus, a Swiss skier from nearby Bern. Halfway along a red run, we were stopped in our tracks, Road Runner-cartoon style, by the incredible sight of a body somersaulting above us, and dropping, upside down, out of sight below. We had chanced upon the practice session of a team of professional aerial ski jumpers. One of them was the 2006 Olympic champion, Evelyne Leu. By coincidence, we ended up in the same gondola as Leu on the way back to the village. \"We practise these jumps into lakes during the summer, for safety,\" she said. Safety being a relative term. Searching the town for apr\u00e8s-ski, we found a bronze statue of Sherlock Holmes, who was fictionally pushed off a cliff (or not) by arch-rival Moriarty at the nearby Reichenbach waterfall, and has a small museum dedicated to him.Nightlife in these small resorts is limited to cosy bars, especially midweek; so our solution was to go off-brief to party in Zermatt, Switzerland's stellar resort, for a couple of nights. By day we battled through blizzards to rustic mountain restaurants, including Chez Vroni, a snug cabin with homemade sausages dangling from the ceiling in the tiny hamlet of Findeln. Leaving Zermatt the next morning, we realised it's a mistake to travel between resorts in the evening. Through the huge windows of the Glacier Express we were treated to the spectacle of a snowy St Gotthard valley, which runs from Zermatt to Andermatt. For an hour, cross-country skiers glided along a path next to the track.Within an hour of reaching Andermatt, we were ascending Gemsstock mountain in the only cable car to access a phenomenal off-piste area. Next, Disentis, an hour down the line but a very different region of Switzerland, where people speak a Romanche dialect, not German. Disentis is presided over by a Benedictine monastery, its cream walls glowing pink in the late afternoon sun. It had been four days since the last snowfall, but with too few people to track it out, powder remained in abundance, right next to the pistes. All too soon we were heading east to our final destination, Pontresina, a pretty resort next to St Moritz. Any regrets about taking one of our last trains melted when we boarded a 75-year-old wood-panelled dining carriage, redolent of the Orient Express, wit h tables set with wine glasses, folded cloth napkins and candles. The dining cars on Swiss trains are typically excellent waiter-service restaurants, but here the baby-leaf salad, polenta, ratatouille and hake in breadcrumbs surpassed the rest. The train clattered through the beautiful Rheinschlucht valley, known as the Grand Canyon of Switzerland, past hilltop villages, a turquoise river, and otherworldly grey rock formations. Two glorious days' cruising Pontresina's long, sweeping runs ended with a blissful soak in Europe's highest outdoor Jacuzzi, in front of the excellent Berghaus restaurant at the 2,978m summit of Diavolezza - more proof that settling for less piste does not mean compromising on altitude. The next morning, reluctantly boarding a homebound train, I thought back over our trip. While a normal ski holiday can fast-forward to the end, each day blending into the next, the varied nature of our ski safari had made it feel like an epic adventure. I took a last glimpse down the railway track where, further along the line, dozens of other small, deserted resorts were waiting to be discovered. \u2022 Getting there London to Paris by Eurostar (from \u00a359 rtn) then Paris to Basel (from \u00a338 rtn) then an InterRail Switzerland pass (\u00a3168) giving eight days' travel within a one-month period. Book through Rail Europe (0844 848 4070, raileurope.co.uk). \u2022 Where to stay Hotel Garni Hostatt in Engelberg (hostatt.ch), doubles from \u00a337pp B&B. Iglu Dorf Engelberg (iglu-dorf.com) from \u00a378pp. Sporthotel Sherlock Holmes in Meiringen (sherlock.ch), doubles from \u00a387 half-board. Hotel Perren in Zermatt (hotel-perren.ch), doubles from \u00a354pp B&B. Hotel Drei Koenige & Post in Andermatt (3koenige.ch), doubles from \u00a3136 B&B. Hotel Sax in Disentis (hotelsax.ch), doubles from \u00a349 half-board. Hotel Allegra in Pontresina (allegrahotel.ch), doubles from \u00a3125 B&B. More information myswitzerland.com.Les Arcs, FranceThe most convenient Alpine train destination is the Tarentaise valley. A Friday night Eurostar runs all the way to Bourg-St-Maurice, arriving Saturday morning. (NB There are no couchettes - take earplugs, eyemask and pillow.) Taxis and the odd bus go to Val d'Is\u00e8re and Tignes and a funicular links the station to Les Arcs. \u2022 Erna Low (0845 863 0525, ernalow .co.uk) offers 7 nights in a two-bedroom Radisson SAS apartment in the newest village, Arc 1950, from \u00a3331pp inc train travel.M\u00e9ribel, FranceThere are two other stations along the Tarentaise valley with access to ski areas; Aime, for La Plagne, and Moutiers, for the Trois Vall\u00e9es. The shortest road transfer is Moutiers to M\u00e9ribel - about 20 minutes. \u2022 First Choice (firstchoice-ski.co.uk, 0871 664 0130) offers seven nights' half-board in the Chalet Renardeaux, from \u00a3679pp, inc train.Kitzb\u00fchel, AustriaMedieval Kitzb\u00fchel, spa town Bad Gastein, and lakeside Zell am See are served every week by the Bergland Express from Aachen, Germany (reached by Friday afternoon Eurostar to Brussels and a short connection). \u2022 European Rail (erail.co.uk, 020-7619 1080) offers seven nights at the 3-star Minotel Resch in Kitzb\u00fchel, inc Eurostar and 6-berth couchette on the Bergland, from \u00a3593pp. La Molina, SpainThe Pyrenees are harder to reach than the Alps by train - there's no railway in Andorra, for example - but it's not too tricky to reach the pretty town of Puigcerd\u00e0, in Catalonia, via Toulouse. The stylish spa hotel, Hospes Villa Paulita, in an art nouveau building, is an attractive base, 15km away at the linked areas of La Molina and Masella. \u2022 Double rooms from \u00a3110 room-only (0034 972 884 662, hospes.es). Return rail tickets from \u00a3169pp (eurostar.com).Grindelwald, SwitzerlandLeaving from London on Eurostar at 8am, travelling via Paris and Basel, you can be in Grindelwald at 6.40pm - and it's a beautiful journey, to the foot of the Eiger - there's even a tunnel through it! \u2022 Inghams (020-8780 4433, inghams .co.uk) offers 7 nights' half-board in the 3-star Hotel Hirschen from \u00a3588pp, inc train.Aviemore, ScotlandIn good conditions (don't book too far in advance), the Cairngorms can be fun for a weekend, and it's cheap, especially with an Adventure Pass (visitscotland.com/adventurepass). \u2022 Aviemore's traditional Cairngorm Hotel (\u00a344pp B&B, cairngorm.com) is opposite the station, from where a bus runs to the ski hill. Super off-peak return with National Express (nationalexpress.com) from London \u00a3117, from Newcastle \u00a381.St Anton, AustriaThe Bergland Express continues from Kitzb\u00fchel to St Anton, one of Europe's greatest ski areas with extreme skiing and unbeatable partying. Regular Post buses link to Lech and Z\u00fcrs as well. \u00b7 European Rail (020-7619 1080, erail.co.uk) offers London-St Anton for \u00a3213pp in a 6-berth couchette. The cool Hotel Banyan (banyan-hotel.com) costs from \u20ac75pp pn B&B.Bardonecchia, ItalyThe Dolomites are a schlep by rail, but there is a good Paris-Turin connection, stopping in Oulx (for Sauze d'Oulx and the 400km Milky Way ski area) and the market town/ski resort Bardonecchia, which hosted snowboarding at the 2006 Olympics. It has 110km of mainly intermediate skiing.\u2022 London-Bardonecchia, from \u00a3109pp with European Rail. Seven nights' half-board at the Villa Myosotis, from \u00a3350pp, with Alpine Answers (020-7801 1080, alpineanswers.co.uk).Chris Madigan ", "tags": ["Top 100 ski breaks", "Skiing holidays", "Rail travel", "Hotels", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "A rail ski safari in Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-08-27T12:18:19Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Next week, finally, the Large Hadron Collider will finally kick into action at Cern in Switzerland - bringing the untold secrets of physics to light (and, if you believe some people, bringing the universe to an end).Thankfully you don't have to be an idle observer of this amazing launch - because with this handy operating manual for the LHC, you can join in by learning how to run the machine yourself.(via Make)", "tags": ["Technology"], "title": "HOWTO operate the Large Hadron Collider"},{"date": "2008-09-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Do we care about the origins of the universe? The sight of geeks in pyjamas is all very amusing but has little potential benefit for society. And it's our tax money being spent. In a world rich in spin, the purpose of blowing an amazing \u00a35bn blasting a few particles round the equivalent of London Underground's Circle Line has not been explained. To say it could lead to the development of yet another electronic gizmo is just not good enough. The commonest cause of death on this planet is not cancer, heart disease or Aids but diarrhoea in young children. Saving one life costs just \u00a35. Why are we sanctioning this nonsense?\u00b7 Karol Sikora is a cancer specialistIt's a shame Stephen Hawking's voice simulator doesn't have an electronic chuckle. Surely he would have laughed out loud at the Today programme's question to him about the likely end of the world? Yet if it hadn't been for the supposed voracious black hole that might devour the universe, I doubt the Cern project would have generated much popular interest. I love the language - wimps, Higgs boson, dark matter - but find it astonishing we can almost recreate the birth of the universe but still not make carbon capture sufficiently economically viable to ensure our survival within it.\u00b7 Barbara Gunnell is associate editor of the New StatesmanOooh, yes! If they raised \u00a35bn they must be frightfully clever. But haven't they already proved something? The Bang wasn't the Beginning. The universe must have existed, in sub-particle form, before it banged. They've also proved the most important point of all: that it was all down to brains. Those particles in Geneva won't collide by their own volition. Someone has put them up to it. When the scientists' work is over, we'll be amazed at what they did. In the meantime we're amazed at what He did. But if He'd done it in a tunnel, would the fallout have produced Richard Dawkins?\u00b7 Donald Macleod is principal of the Free Church School, EdinburghEnthusiastic physicists, whether they are A-level students or professors, make me feel that nothing can be so important as to find out what the universe really is and how it began. It's a common enterprise that has been going on for centuries, throughout the civilised world. Cern is an expression of this, uniquely human, shared curiosity. To say that the money would be better spent on the health service or the transport system is like saying that the only point of universities is so that students can contribute to the economy. It is philistinism attempting to murder the imagination.\u00b7 Mary Warnock is a philosopher", "tags": ["Cern", "Particle physics", "Physics"], "title": "The Observer Panel: Should we spend \u00a35bn to study the universe's origins?"},{"date": "2008-07-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya has been taking \"worrying retaliatory measures\" against Switzerland since the arrest of the youngest son of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy, for allegedly beating two of his servants, the Swiss foreign ministry said yesterday.It said Swiss citizens should cease travel to the country immediately. Libya has recalled some of its diplomats in Switzerland, suspended the issuing of visas for Swiss citizens, reduced flights to Switzerland and detained two Swiss nationals on various charges, the ministry said.\"Swiss companies in Libya have received orders to close, and some company offices have been sealed,\" it added.Swiss International Air Lines said Libya had restricted its flights to one a week following the arrest of Hannibal Gadafy. Libya also announced a similar cut in the flights of the Libyan airline Afriqiyah to Geneva, the airport disclosed.Hannibal Gadafy and his wife were arrested last week after an incident at a Geneva hotel. They were released on bail two days later and left the country. The daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve reported that two of Gadafy's servants claimed Gadafy, 32, and his wife beat them at the hotel with a belt and a hanger. Lawyer Alain Berger said Gadafy and his wife rejected the allegations.Switzerland has sent a diplomatic delegation to Tripoli to give the Libyan authorities more details on the arrest and \"to prevent a crisis between the two countries\", the foreign ministry said.", "tags": ["Libya", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Switzerland: Libya hits back after arrest of Gadafy's son"},{"date": "2008-09-26T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Like many skiers and snowboarders, I'm instinctively drawn to big-name resorts that boast hundreds of kilometres of piste. But often, on getting there, I feel like I've been hoodwinked. Slow, shuffling lift queues, overcrowded runs ... the sheer number of people renders piste-mileage figures meaningless. I also find that spending a week in one resort can dull the senses as you hit the same trails again and again. So last season, I devised an alternative to the standard one-week-one-big-resort holiday - a rail ski safari to several small ones. The fact that it would be greener made it even more appealing.Europe's rail network can speed a skier to hundreds of destinations all over the continent, but with its picturesque mountain railways and 243 ski resorts (many with stations), Switzerland was the obvious choice.When I felt the weight of my friend Grant's snowboard bag, though, I wondered whether it would be as easy as it first seemed. In the coming fortnight, we'd be hauling our luggage on and off 16 trains. I had visions of our adventure turning into a shoulder-torturing schlep, with Grant eventually crushed beneath the weight of his bag gasping: \"You go ahead without me ... I'll only slow you down ... \" Our first destination, Engelberg in central Switzerland, was just under 11 hours from St Pancras - door to door the journey didn't take much longer than it would by plane. The French countryside slipped away and the ground became blanketed in snow, as if in the space of a few hours spring had turned to winter. On either side, mountains loomed in the dusk and the huge expanse of Lake Zurich came into view on our left. Engelberg has a loyal following of experienced Swedish skiers and snowboarders who save up at home all summer so they can ski there all winter, without having to work. Looking out from the top of the 3,028m Mount Titlis on our first morning we could see why: in every direction, expansive off-piste is accessible without any hiking, though the crevasse-riddled terrain means it's wise to ski with a guide. We avoided crevasses, but still ended up lodged in ice, at Iglu-Dorf, an igloo hotel halfway up Titlis. The cavernous, candlelit rooms had sheepskin rugs, Jacuzzis and a bar serving gl\u00fchwein. We took a guided snow-shoe walk in the dark, gazing down from the edge of a cliff at the twinkling lights of the town, 1,800m beneath us. And we stayed warm and comfortable all night, though, much as I like Grant, the romantic atmosphere would be better experienced with a lover, not a friend. After another day on the slopes we headed to Meiringen, two hours west, in a carriage full of suited Swiss commuters. Meiringen's slopes aren't visible from the village and, with so few people heading up on the cable-car next morning, we assumed the skiing would be tame. But as we ascended, an impressive panorama of empty pistes covered in soft snow unfolded before us. \"People don't really come to smaller resorts like this except at weekends and holidays,\" explained Marcus, a Swiss skier from nearby Bern. Halfway along a red run, we were stopped in our tracks, Road Runner-cartoon style, by the incredible sight of a body somersaulting above us, and dropping, upside down, out of sight below. We had chanced upon the practice session of a team of professional aerial ski jumpers. One of them was the 2006 Olympic champion, Evelyne Leu. By coincidence, we ended up in the same gondola as Leu on the way back to the village. \"We practise these jumps into lakes during the summer, for safety,\" she said. Safety being a relative term. Searching the town for apr\u00e8s-ski, we found a bronze statue of Sherlock Holmes, who was fictionally pushed off a cliff (or not) by arch-rival Moriarty at the nearby Reichenbach waterfall, and has a small museum dedicated to him.Nightlife in these small resorts is limited to cosy bars, especially midweek; so our solution was to go off-brief to party in Zermatt, Switzerland's stellar resort, for a couple of nights. By day we battled through blizzards to rustic mountain restaurants, including Chez Vroni, a snug cabin with homemade sausages dangling from the ceiling in the tiny hamlet of Findeln. Leaving Zermatt the next morning, we realised it's a mistake to travel between resorts in the evening. Through the huge windows of the Glacier Express we were treated to the spectacle of a snowy St Gotthard valley, which runs from Zermatt to Andermatt. For an hour, cross-country skiers glided along a path next to the track.Within an hour of reaching Andermatt, we were ascending Gemsstock mountain in the only cable car to access a phenomenal off-piste area. Next, Disentis, an hour down the line but a very different region of Switzerland, where people speak a Romanche dialect, not German. Disentis is presided over by a Benedictine monastery, its cream walls glowing pink in the late afternoon sun. It had been four days since the last snowfall, but with too few people to track it out, powder remained in abundance, right next to the pistes. All too soon we were heading east to our final destination, Pontresina, a pretty resort next to St Moritz. Any regrets about taking one of our last trains melted when we boarded a 75-year-old wood-panelled dining carriage, redolent of the Orient Express, wit h tables set with wine glasses, folded cloth napkins and candles. The dining cars on Swiss trains are typically excellent waiter-service restaurants, but here the baby-leaf salad, polenta, ratatouille and hake in breadcrumbs surpassed the rest. The train clattered through the beautiful Rheinschlucht valley, known as the Grand Canyon of Switzerland, past hilltop villages, a turquoise river, and otherworldly grey rock formations. Two glorious days' cruising Pontresina's long, sweeping runs ended with a blissful soak in Europe's highest outdoor Jacuzzi, in front of the excellent Berghaus restaurant at the 2,978m summit of Diavolezza - more proof that settling for less piste does not mean compromising on altitude. The next morning, reluctantly boarding a homebound train, I thought back over our trip. While a normal ski holiday can fast-forward to the end, each day blending into the next, the varied nature of our ski safari had made it feel like an epic adventure. I took a last glimpse down the railway track where, further along the line, dozens of other small, deserted resorts were waiting to be discovered. \u2022 Getting there London to Paris by Eurostar (from \u00a359 rtn) then Paris to Basel (from \u00a338 rtn) then an InterRail Switzerland pass (\u00a3168) giving eight days' travel within a one-month period. Book through Rail Europe (0844 848 4070, raileurope.co.uk). \u2022 Where to stay Hotel Garni Hostatt in Engelberg (hostatt.ch), doubles from \u00a337pp B&B. Iglu Dorf Engelberg (iglu-dorf.com) from \u00a378pp. Sporthotel Sherlock Holmes in Meiringen (sherlock.ch), doubles from \u00a387 half-board. Hotel Perren in Zermatt (hotel-perren.ch), doubles from \u00a354pp B&B. Hotel Drei Koenige & Post in Andermatt (3koenige.ch), doubles from \u00a3136 B&B. Hotel Sax in Disentis (hotelsax.ch), doubles from \u00a349 half-board. Hotel Allegra in Pontresina (allegrahotel.ch), doubles from \u00a3125 B&B. More information myswitzerland.com.Les Arcs, FranceThe most convenient Alpine train destination is the Tarentaise valley. A Friday night Eurostar runs all the way to Bourg-St-Maurice, arriving Saturday morning. (NB There are no couchettes - take earplugs, eyemask and pillow.) Taxis and the odd bus go to Val d'Is\u00e8re and Tignes and a funicular links the station to Les Arcs. \u2022 Erna Low (0845 863 0525, ernalow .co.uk) offers 7 nights in a two-bedroom Radisson SAS apartment in the newest village, Arc 1950, from \u00a3331pp inc train travel.M\u00e9ribel, FranceThere are two other stations along the Tarentaise valley with access to ski areas; Aime, for La Plagne, and Moutiers, for the Trois Vall\u00e9es. The shortest road transfer is Moutiers to M\u00e9ribel - about 20 minutes. \u2022 First Choice (firstchoice-ski.co.uk, 0871 664 0130) offers seven nights' half-board in the Chalet Renardeaux, from \u00a3679pp, inc train.Kitzb\u00fchel, AustriaMedieval Kitzb\u00fchel, spa town Bad Gastein, and lakeside Zell am See are served every week by the Bergland Express from Aachen, Germany (reached by Friday afternoon Eurostar to Brussels and a short connection). \u2022 European Rail (erail.co.uk, 020-7619 1080) offers seven nights at the 3-star Minotel Resch in Kitzb\u00fchel, inc Eurostar and 6-berth couchette on the Bergland, from \u00a3593pp. La Molina, SpainThe Pyrenees are harder to reach than the Alps by train - there's no railway in Andorra, for example - but it's not too tricky to reach the pretty town of Puigcerd\u00e0, in Catalonia, via Toulouse. The stylish spa hotel, Hospes Villa Paulita, in an art nouveau building, is an attractive base, 15km away at the linked areas of La Molina and Masella. \u2022 Double rooms from \u00a3110 room-only (0034 972 884 662, hospes.es). Return rail tickets from \u00a3169pp (eurostar.com).Grindelwald, SwitzerlandLeaving from London on Eurostar at 8am, travelling via Paris and Basel, you can be in Grindelwald at 6.40pm - and it's a beautiful journey, to the foot of the Eiger - there's even a tunnel through it! \u2022 Inghams (020-8780 4433, inghams .co.uk) offers 7 nights' half-board in the 3-star Hotel Hirschen from \u00a3588pp, inc train.Aviemore, ScotlandIn good conditions (don't book too far in advance), the Cairngorms can be fun for a weekend, and it's cheap, especially with an Adventure Pass (visitscotland.com/adventurepass). \u2022 Aviemore's traditional Cairngorm Hotel (\u00a344pp B&B, cairngorm.com) is opposite the station, from where a bus runs to the ski hill. Super off-peak return with National Express (nationalexpress.com) from London \u00a3117, from Newcastle \u00a381.St Anton, AustriaThe Bergland Express continues from Kitzb\u00fchel to St Anton, one of Europe's greatest ski areas with extreme skiing and unbeatable partying. Regular Post buses link to Lech and Z\u00fcrs as well. \u00b7 European Rail (020-7619 1080, erail.co.uk) offers London-St Anton for \u00a3213pp in a 6-berth couchette. The cool Hotel Banyan (banyan-hotel.com) costs from \u20ac75pp pn B&B.Bardonecchia, ItalyThe Dolomites are a schlep by rail, but there is a good Paris-Turin connection, stopping in Oulx (for Sauze d'Oulx and the 400km Milky Way ski area) and the market town/ski resort Bardonecchia, which hosted snowboarding at the 2006 Olympics. It has 110km of mainly intermediate skiing.\u2022 London-Bardonecchia, from \u00a3109pp with European Rail. Seven nights' half-board at the Villa Myosotis, from \u00a3350pp, with Alpine Answers (020-7801 1080, alpineanswers.co.uk).Chris Madigan ", "tags": ["Top 100 ski breaks", "Skiing holidays", "Rail travel", "Hotels", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "A rail ski safari in Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-08-27T12:18:19Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Next week, finally, the Large Hadron Collider will finally kick into action at Cern in Switzerland - bringing the untold secrets of physics to light (and, if you believe some people, bringing the universe to an end).Thankfully you don't have to be an idle observer of this amazing launch - because with this handy operating manual for the LHC, you can join in by learning how to run the machine yourself.(via Make)", "tags": ["Technology"], "title": "HOWTO operate the Large Hadron Collider"},{"date": "2008-09-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Do we care about the origins of the universe? The sight of geeks in pyjamas is all very amusing but has little potential benefit for society. And it's our tax money being spent. In a world rich in spin, the purpose of blowing an amazing \u00a35bn blasting a few particles round the equivalent of London Underground's Circle Line has not been explained. To say it could lead to the development of yet another electronic gizmo is just not good enough. The commonest cause of death on this planet is not cancer, heart disease or Aids but diarrhoea in young children. Saving one life costs just \u00a35. Why are we sanctioning this nonsense?\u00b7 Karol Sikora is a cancer specialistIt's a shame Stephen Hawking's voice simulator doesn't have an electronic chuckle. Surely he would have laughed out loud at the Today programme's question to him about the likely end of the world? Yet if it hadn't been for the supposed voracious black hole that might devour the universe, I doubt the Cern project would have generated much popular interest. I love the language - wimps, Higgs boson, dark matter - but find it astonishing we can almost recreate the birth of the universe but still not make carbon capture sufficiently economically viable to ensure our survival within it.\u00b7 Barbara Gunnell is associate editor of the New StatesmanOooh, yes! If they raised \u00a35bn they must be frightfully clever. But haven't they already proved something? The Bang wasn't the Beginning. The universe must have existed, in sub-particle form, before it banged. They've also proved the most important point of all: that it was all down to brains. Those particles in Geneva won't collide by their own volition. Someone has put them up to it. When the scientists' work is over, we'll be amazed at what they did. In the meantime we're amazed at what He did. But if He'd done it in a tunnel, would the fallout have produced Richard Dawkins?\u00b7 Donald Macleod is principal of the Free Church School, EdinburghEnthusiastic physicists, whether they are A-level students or professors, make me feel that nothing can be so important as to find out what the universe really is and how it began. It's a common enterprise that has been going on for centuries, throughout the civilised world. Cern is an expression of this, uniquely human, shared curiosity. To say that the money would be better spent on the health service or the transport system is like saying that the only point of universities is so that students can contribute to the economy. It is philistinism attempting to murder the imagination.\u00b7 Mary Warnock is a philosopher", "tags": ["Cern", "Particle physics", "Physics"], "title": "The Observer Panel: Should we spend \u00a35bn to study the universe's origins?"},{"date": "2008-07-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland braced itself for a troubled campaign of Islamophobia yesterday after the far right drummed up enough support to force a national vote to ban minarets.In a country that is home to more than 300,000 Muslims but boasts only three minarets, a series of court cases and votes in regional parliaments has recently dismissed attempts to have minarets outlawed. But a campaign, led by the rightwing populists of the Swiss People's party, to enshrine a ban on minarets in the Swiss constitution yesterday mustered more than enough signatures to warrant a referendum on the sensitive issue.Disputes over mosque and minaret-building are rife across Europe, with controversies in Germany, Austria, Italy, and the Netherlands. In Switzerland, Christoph Blocher's anti-immigrant Swiss People's party, which won the national elections last year after a campaign branded racist by UN monitors, has repeatedly used the building regulations and zoning laws to try to prevent minarets being built. It has failed, as in Zurich, last month. Last year a Turkish association won a supreme court case authorising it to put a minaret on a mosque in the village of Wangen.By yesterday People's party activists had gathered 115,000 signatures, more than the 100,000 needed under Switzerland's direct democracy system.The campaign demands a constitutional amendment, stating: \"The building of minarets in Switzerland is forbidden.\"The government has already opposed the demand and may try to prevent the referendum, citing reasons of national security and the impact on the country's international relations and interests.", "tags": ["Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Islamophobia: Swiss far right seeks vote on minarets ban"},{"date": "2008-07-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya has been taking \"worrying retaliatory measures\" against Switzerland since the arrest of the youngest son of the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy, for allegedly beating two of his servants, the Swiss foreign ministry said yesterday.It said Swiss citizens should cease travel to the country immediately. Libya has recalled some of its diplomats in Switzerland, suspended the issuing of visas for Swiss citizens, reduced flights to Switzerland and detained two Swiss nationals on various charges, the ministry said.\"Swiss companies in Libya have received orders to close, and some company offices have been sealed,\" it added.Swiss International Air Lines said Libya had restricted its flights to one a week following the arrest of Hannibal Gadafy. Libya also announced a similar cut in the flights of the Libyan airline Afriqiyah to Geneva, the airport disclosed.Hannibal Gadafy and his wife were arrested last week after an incident at a Geneva hotel. They were released on bail two days later and left the country. The daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve reported that two of Gadafy's servants claimed Gadafy, 32, and his wife beat them at the hotel with a belt and a hanger. Lawyer Alain Berger said Gadafy and his wife rejected the allegations.Switzerland has sent a diplomatic delegation to Tripoli to give the Libyan authorities more details on the arrest and \"to prevent a crisis between the two countries\", the foreign ministry said.", "tags": ["Libya", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Switzerland: Libya hits back after arrest of Gadafy's son"},{"date": "2008-09-26T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Like many skiers and snowboarders, I'm instinctively drawn to big-name resorts that boast hundreds of kilometres of piste. But often, on getting there, I feel like I've been hoodwinked. Slow, shuffling lift queues, overcrowded runs ... the sheer number of people renders piste-mileage figures meaningless. I also find that spending a week in one resort can dull the senses as you hit the same trails again and again. So last season, I devised an alternative to the standard one-week-one-big-resort holiday - a rail ski safari to several small ones. The fact that it would be greener made it even more appealing.Europe's rail network can speed a skier to hundreds of destinations all over the continent, but with its picturesque mountain railways and 243 ski resorts (many with stations), Switzerland was the obvious choice.When I felt the weight of my friend Grant's snowboard bag, though, I wondered whether it would be as easy as it first seemed. In the coming fortnight, we'd be hauling our luggage on and off 16 trains. I had visions of our adventure turning into a shoulder-torturing schlep, with Grant eventually crushed beneath the weight of his bag gasping: \"You go ahead without me ... I'll only slow you down ... \" Our first destination, Engelberg in central Switzerland, was just under 11 hours from St Pancras - door to door the journey didn't take much longer than it would by plane. The French countryside slipped away and the ground became blanketed in snow, as if in the space of a few hours spring had turned to winter. On either side, mountains loomed in the dusk and the huge expanse of Lake Zurich came into view on our left. Engelberg has a loyal following of experienced Swedish skiers and snowboarders who save up at home all summer so they can ski there all winter, without having to work. Looking out from the top of the 3,028m Mount Titlis on our first morning we could see why: in every direction, expansive off-piste is accessible without any hiking, though the crevasse-riddled terrain means it's wise to ski with a guide. We avoided crevasses, but still ended up lodged in ice, at Iglu-Dorf, an igloo hotel halfway up Titlis. The cavernous, candlelit rooms had sheepskin rugs, Jacuzzis and a bar serving gl\u00fchwein. We took a guided snow-shoe walk in the dark, gazing down from the edge of a cliff at the twinkling lights of the town, 1,800m beneath us. And we stayed warm and comfortable all night, though, much as I like Grant, the romantic atmosphere would be better experienced with a lover, not a friend. After another day on the slopes we headed to Meiringen, two hours west, in a carriage full of suited Swiss commuters. Meiringen's slopes aren't visible from the village and, with so few people heading up on the cable-car next morning, we assumed the skiing would be tame. But as we ascended, an impressive panorama of empty pistes covered in soft snow unfolded before us. \"People don't really come to smaller resorts like this except at weekends and holidays,\" explained Marcus, a Swiss skier from nearby Bern. Halfway along a red run, we were stopped in our tracks, Road Runner-cartoon style, by the incredible sight of a body somersaulting above us, and dropping, upside down, out of sight below. We had chanced upon the practice session of a team of professional aerial ski jumpers. One of them was the 2006 Olympic champion, Evelyne Leu. By coincidence, we ended up in the same gondola as Leu on the way back to the village. \"We practise these jumps into lakes during the summer, for safety,\" she said. Safety being a relative term. Searching the town for apr\u00e8s-ski, we found a bronze statue of Sherlock Holmes, who was fictionally pushed off a cliff (or not) by arch-rival Moriarty at the nearby Reichenbach waterfall, and has a small museum dedicated to him.Nightlife in these small resorts is limited to cosy bars, especially midweek; so our solution was to go off-brief to party in Zermatt, Switzerland's stellar resort, for a couple of nights. By day we battled through blizzards to rustic mountain restaurants, including Chez Vroni, a snug cabin with homemade sausages dangling from the ceiling in the tiny hamlet of Findeln. Leaving Zermatt the next morning, we realised it's a mistake to travel between resorts in the evening. Through the huge windows of the Glacier Express we were treated to the spectacle of a snowy St Gotthard valley, which runs from Zermatt to Andermatt. For an hour, cross-country skiers glided along a path next to the track.Within an hour of reaching Andermatt, we were ascending Gemsstock mountain in the only cable car to access a phenomenal off-piste area. Next, Disentis, an hour down the line but a very different region of Switzerland, where people speak a Romanche dialect, not German. Disentis is presided over by a Benedictine monastery, its cream walls glowing pink in the late afternoon sun. It had been four days since the last snowfall, but with too few people to track it out, powder remained in abundance, right next to the pistes. All too soon we were heading east to our final destination, Pontresina, a pretty resort next to St Moritz. Any regrets about taking one of our last trains melted when we boarded a 75-year-old wood-panelled dining carriage, redolent of the Orient Express, wit h tables set with wine glasses, folded cloth napkins and candles. The dining cars on Swiss trains are typically excellent waiter-service restaurants, but here the baby-leaf salad, polenta, ratatouille and hake in breadcrumbs surpassed the rest. The train clattered through the beautiful Rheinschlucht valley, known as the Grand Canyon of Switzerland, past hilltop villages, a turquoise river, and otherworldly grey rock formations. Two glorious days' cruising Pontresina's long, sweeping runs ended with a blissful soak in Europe's highest outdoor Jacuzzi, in front of the excellent Berghaus restaurant at the 2,978m summit of Diavolezza - more proof that settling for less piste does not mean compromising on altitude. The next morning, reluctantly boarding a homebound train, I thought back over our trip. While a normal ski holiday can fast-forward to the end, each day blending into the next, the varied nature of our ski safari had made it feel like an epic adventure. I took a last glimpse down the railway track where, further along the line, dozens of other small, deserted resorts were waiting to be discovered. \u2022 Getting there London to Paris by Eurostar (from \u00a359 rtn) then Paris to Basel (from \u00a338 rtn) then an InterRail Switzerland pass (\u00a3168) giving eight days' travel within a one-month period. Book through Rail Europe (0844 848 4070, raileurope.co.uk). \u2022 Where to stay Hotel Garni Hostatt in Engelberg (hostatt.ch), doubles from \u00a337pp B&B. Iglu Dorf Engelberg (iglu-dorf.com) from \u00a378pp. Sporthotel Sherlock Holmes in Meiringen (sherlock.ch), doubles from \u00a387 half-board. Hotel Perren in Zermatt (hotel-perren.ch), doubles from \u00a354pp B&B. Hotel Drei Koenige & Post in Andermatt (3koenige.ch), doubles from \u00a3136 B&B. Hotel Sax in Disentis (hotelsax.ch), doubles from \u00a349 half-board. Hotel Allegra in Pontresina (allegrahotel.ch), doubles from \u00a3125 B&B. More information myswitzerland.com.Les Arcs, FranceThe most convenient Alpine train destination is the Tarentaise valley. A Friday night Eurostar runs all the way to Bourg-St-Maurice, arriving Saturday morning. (NB There are no couchettes - take earplugs, eyemask and pillow.) Taxis and the odd bus go to Val d'Is\u00e8re and Tignes and a funicular links the station to Les Arcs. \u2022 Erna Low (0845 863 0525, ernalow .co.uk) offers 7 nights in a two-bedroom Radisson SAS apartment in the newest village, Arc 1950, from \u00a3331pp inc train travel.M\u00e9ribel, FranceThere are two other stations along the Tarentaise valley with access to ski areas; Aime, for La Plagne, and Moutiers, for the Trois Vall\u00e9es. The shortest road transfer is Moutiers to M\u00e9ribel - about 20 minutes. \u2022 First Choice (firstchoice-ski.co.uk, 0871 664 0130) offers seven nights' half-board in the Chalet Renardeaux, from \u00a3679pp, inc train.Kitzb\u00fchel, AustriaMedieval Kitzb\u00fchel, spa town Bad Gastein, and lakeside Zell am See are served every week by the Bergland Express from Aachen, Germany (reached by Friday afternoon Eurostar to Brussels and a short connection). \u2022 European Rail (erail.co.uk, 020-7619 1080) offers seven nights at the 3-star Minotel Resch in Kitzb\u00fchel, inc Eurostar and 6-berth couchette on the Bergland, from \u00a3593pp. La Molina, SpainThe Pyrenees are harder to reach than the Alps by train - there's no railway in Andorra, for example - but it's not too tricky to reach the pretty town of Puigcerd\u00e0, in Catalonia, via Toulouse. The stylish spa hotel, Hospes Villa Paulita, in an art nouveau building, is an attractive base, 15km away at the linked areas of La Molina and Masella. \u2022 Double rooms from \u00a3110 room-only (0034 972 884 662, hospes.es). Return rail tickets from \u00a3169pp (eurostar.com).Grindelwald, SwitzerlandLeaving from London on Eurostar at 8am, travelling via Paris and Basel, you can be in Grindelwald at 6.40pm - and it's a beautiful journey, to the foot of the Eiger - there's even a tunnel through it! \u2022 Inghams (020-8780 4433, inghams .co.uk) offers 7 nights' half-board in the 3-star Hotel Hirschen from \u00a3588pp, inc train.Aviemore, ScotlandIn good conditions (don't book too far in advance), the Cairngorms can be fun for a weekend, and it's cheap, especially with an Adventure Pass (visitscotland.com/adventurepass). \u2022 Aviemore's traditional Cairngorm Hotel (\u00a344pp B&B, cairngorm.com) is opposite the station, from where a bus runs to the ski hill. Super off-peak return with National Express (nationalexpress.com) from London \u00a3117, from Newcastle \u00a381.St Anton, AustriaThe Bergland Express continues from Kitzb\u00fchel to St Anton, one of Europe's greatest ski areas with extreme skiing and unbeatable partying. Regular Post buses link to Lech and Z\u00fcrs as well. \u00b7 European Rail (020-7619 1080, erail.co.uk) offers London-St Anton for \u00a3213pp in a 6-berth couchette. The cool Hotel Banyan (banyan-hotel.com) costs from \u20ac75pp pn B&B.Bardonecchia, ItalyThe Dolomites are a schlep by rail, but there is a good Paris-Turin connection, stopping in Oulx (for Sauze d'Oulx and the 400km Milky Way ski area) and the market town/ski resort Bardonecchia, which hosted snowboarding at the 2006 Olympics. It has 110km of mainly intermediate skiing.\u2022 London-Bardonecchia, from \u00a3109pp with European Rail. Seven nights' half-board at the Villa Myosotis, from \u00a3350pp, with Alpine Answers (020-7801 1080, alpineanswers.co.uk).Chris Madigan ", "tags": ["Top 100 ski breaks", "Skiing holidays", "Rail travel", "Hotels", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "A rail ski safari in Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-08-27T12:18:19Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Next week, finally, the Large Hadron Collider will finally kick into action at Cern in Switzerland - bringing the untold secrets of physics to light (and, if you believe some people, bringing the universe to an end).Thankfully you don't have to be an idle observer of this amazing launch - because with this handy operating manual for the LHC, you can join in by learning how to run the machine yourself.(via Make)", "tags": ["Technology"], "title": "HOWTO operate the Large Hadron Collider"},{"date": "2008-09-13T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Do we care about the origins of the universe? The sight of geeks in pyjamas is all very amusing but has little potential benefit for society. And it's our tax money being spent. In a world rich in spin, the purpose of blowing an amazing \u00a35bn blasting a few particles round the equivalent of London Underground's Circle Line has not been explained. To say it could lead to the development of yet another electronic gizmo is just not good enough. The commonest cause of death on this planet is not cancer, heart disease or Aids but diarrhoea in young children. Saving one life costs just \u00a35. Why are we sanctioning this nonsense?\u00b7 Karol Sikora is a cancer specialistIt's a shame Stephen Hawking's voice simulator doesn't have an electronic chuckle. Surely he would have laughed out loud at the Today programme's question to him about the likely end of the world? Yet if it hadn't been for the supposed voracious black hole that might devour the universe, I doubt the Cern project would have generated much popular interest. I love the language - wimps, Higgs boson, dark matter - but find it astonishing we can almost recreate the birth of the universe but still not make carbon capture sufficiently economically viable to ensure our survival within it.\u00b7 Barbara Gunnell is associate editor of the New StatesmanOooh, yes! If they raised \u00a35bn they must be frightfully clever. But haven't they already proved something? The Bang wasn't the Beginning. The universe must have existed, in sub-particle form, before it banged. They've also proved the most important point of all: that it was all down to brains. Those particles in Geneva won't collide by their own volition. Someone has put them up to it. When the scientists' work is over, we'll be amazed at what they did. In the meantime we're amazed at what He did. But if He'd done it in a tunnel, would the fallout have produced Richard Dawkins?\u00b7 Donald Macleod is principal of the Free Church School, EdinburghEnthusiastic physicists, whether they are A-level students or professors, make me feel that nothing can be so important as to find out what the universe really is and how it began. It's a common enterprise that has been going on for centuries, throughout the civilised world. Cern is an expression of this, uniquely human, shared curiosity. To say that the money would be better spent on the health service or the transport system is like saying that the only point of universities is so that students can contribute to the economy. It is philistinism attempting to murder the imagination.\u00b7 Mary Warnock is a philosopher", "tags": ["Cern", "Particle physics", "Physics"], "title": "The Observer Panel: Should we spend \u00a35bn to study the universe's origins?"},{"date": "2008-07-08T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland braced itself for a troubled campaign of Islamophobia yesterday after the far right drummed up enough support to force a national vote to ban minarets.In a country that is home to more than 300,000 Muslims but boasts only three minarets, a series of court cases and votes in regional parliaments has recently dismissed attempts to have minarets outlawed. But a campaign, led by the rightwing populists of the Swiss People's party, to enshrine a ban on minarets in the Swiss constitution yesterday mustered more than enough signatures to warrant a referendum on the sensitive issue.Disputes over mosque and minaret-building are rife across Europe, with controversies in Germany, Austria, Italy, and the Netherlands. In Switzerland, Christoph Blocher's anti-immigrant Swiss People's party, which won the national elections last year after a campaign branded racist by UN monitors, has repeatedly used the building regulations and zoning laws to try to prevent minarets being built. It has failed, as in Zurich, last month. Last year a Turkish association won a supreme court case authorising it to put a minaret on a mosque in the village of Wangen.By yesterday People's party activists had gathered 115,000 signatures, more than the 100,000 needed under Switzerland's direct democracy system.The campaign demands a constitutional amendment, stating: \"The building of minarets in Switzerland is forbidden.\"The government has already opposed the demand and may try to prevent the referendum, citing reasons of national security and the impact on the country's international relations and interests.", "tags": ["Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Islamophobia: Swiss far right seeks vote on minarets ban"},{"date": "2008-07-21T19:13:07Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "FREITAG lab. ag / Maag worksZurichSwitzerlandfreitag.chFREITAG recycles seat belts, air bags, bicycle inner tubes and truck tarps, turning them into a range of hardwearing bags.", "tags": ["Ethical fashion directory", "Accessories", "Recycled"], "title": "FREITAG"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for those who've never been there, Switzerland wears an aura of exquisite, if slightly boring, perfection. It is a country known mostly for mountains, chocolate, anonymous bank accounts, an exemplary public transport system and finishing schools. But even though it may not be home to cutting-edge music or avant-garde artists, it has been achieving great heights, and not just in its famously pointed topography. Over the last decade or so Switzerland has been undergoing, quietly of course, a style revolution.Some of the world's greatest architecture is now Swiss-made, and some of the world's greatest architects call Switzerland their home. The country that brought us one of the most influential architects of our times, Le Corbusier, is also the birthplace of Herzog and de Meuron (of the Tate Modern). Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is based here, and Norman Foster, who recently renovated the sprawling Dolder Grand hotel near Zurich, has set up home in a chateau outside Geneva. Boutique hotels and modern alpine spas have sprouted, and in the centres of Lucerne, Geneva, Basel and Zurich new design shops and stylish bars abound. Swiss towns still offer enough gingerbread buildings, flower baskets and cuckoo clocks to keep the fairytale alive, but the 21st-century modern movement is emerging in its Swiss perfect way and attracting a new generation of visitors.ZurichIf you really want to see the best of the new Swiss style, you have to go to Zurich, named by Wallpaper magazine as 'Europe's trendiest and most popular city'. Once known as mainly a financial centre, Zurich has experienced a creative explosion. That image got a huge boost when Google chose to establish its European engineering centre here last year, and as one Google employee put it, 'Zurich has all the sophistication of a big city without the dirt and the crime'. Now there is something for everyone: plenty of old-time charm as well as stylish new elements for the design-conscious urban nomad. Elegant traditional hotels and restaurants mix with high-style design hotels and a zingy nightlife in a city named the 'Gay Capital of Switzerland'.Many travellers' first taste of Zurich's design aesthetic starts as soon as they touch down at Zurich-Kloten airport, with its grand glass arrivals lounge and hi-tech new terminal building. Contemporary architecture groupies shouldn't miss Santiago Calatrava's Stadelhofen train station, an early example of the dramatic sweeping forms that have become his trademark in buildings like the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In Zurich you will also find Le Corbusier's last building, the Heidi Weber House in the Zurichhorn Park. Originally built as a private house, it is now an art gallery and home to the Centre Le Corbusier. In town, head for the stylish and stylishly expensive Widder (www.widderhotel.ch), a minimalist boutique hotel with furniture by Adolf Loos, Charles Eames, Le Corbusier and Josef Hoffmann. Or try the ultra-trendy Sorell Hotel Zurichberg (www.zuerichberg.ch), located slightly out of the way on a mountain slope and offering views over the city. The most talked-about hotel of recent months is the Dolder Grand (www.thedoldergrand.com) originally a turreted castle, which has had its grandeur restored and two new energy-efficient wings added along with full spa facilities. For dining it has to be the modern gourmet fare of the Blaue Ente (Seefeldstrasse 223), located inside a revamped turbine hall in a redeveloped industrial area. Afterwards, head to another, edgier, regenerated neighbourhood, Zuri West, where trendy bars and clubs in former factory buildings abound. Club 0815 (Lintheschergasse 23) is a cool modern cafe and bar that hosts an electronic club at night. Also try the popular Labor-bar (Schiffbaustrasse 3), and one of the newest design creations, the Hive (Geroldstrasse 5), which retains the aura of Zurich's famous 'illegal' clubs (ad hoc bars that sprang up around the city without proper licences and are generally known by word of mouth). For retail therapy, visit the Freitag flagship store (Geroldstrasse 17) for something by the Zurich-born brothers known for making bags and accessories from recycled bicycle inner-tubes and seatbelt straps (with designs now in the New York's MoMA). And don't miss a visit to a sauna in a floating pavilion at the Seebad Enge (www.tonttu.ch), probably the coolest of Zurich's lakeside spa/cafe/lounges. Open even in winter, it offers a view of stunning mountain peaks in between a spell in the sauna and a jump into the icy lake. (It's also open for cocktails at night.) BaselThe dark-clothed duo, Herzog and de Meuron, who were responsible for the Beijing Olympic stadium and Tate Modern's transformation from derelict power station to art destination, have their headquarters in Basel. Local projects include the St Jakob 'experience park', a monumental sports stadium that was enlarged further for Euro 2008. The firm is leaving its imprimatur on other aspects of the city with its design for the Fondation Herzog, a museum of the history of photography (Oslo Strasse 8).Basel is also home to one of the world's biggest art fairs, Art Basel, dubbed 'the Olympics of the Art World', which takes place in June. For a more subdued artistic experience, visit the Fondation Beyeler, a collection of modern art housed in a building by architect Renzo Piano (Baselstrasse 101). Basel is a good base for visiting Frank Gehry's Vitra Design Museum, just over the border in Weil am Rhein, Germany (Charles-Eames-Strasse 1), and easy to reach by bus or train. The Vitra Fire Station, designed by Zaha Hadid, is also nearby. Hotels in Basel still tend toward the traditional or the very basic contemporary but the Royal (www.royal-hotel.ch) offers stylish modern rooms arranged according to the principles of feng shui.The mountainsFor centuries the Swiss Alps have been a destination for skiing and spa-ing, but gone are the days when a mountain holiday meant stomping around beneath cuckoo clocks and dried flower arrangements. The building that started Switzerland's rise to high style is the now-famous Therme Vals spa and hotel (www.therme-vals.ch), about 200km outside Zurich in a small mountain town. Vals was a homegrown enterprise that quickly gained a reputation as one of the most elegant creations of the late 20th century. Designed by Peter Zumthor, the buildings are like blocks of sculpture in grey-green quartzite stone set in glorious alpine countryside. The grand spaces are beautifully spare, with not an unnecessary ornament in sight, just stone, water and the occasional piece of glass . A more vibrant atmosphere abounds elsewhere: even the stalwart village of Zermatt has modern boutique hotels and a rousing nightlife. A new four-star hotel, the Matterhorn Focus (www.matterhorn-focus.ch) opened in June and will see its first winter guests this year. Its modern angular form hugs the hillside so that the guest rooms, with wide glass walls, have unimpeded views of the Matterhorn. While the glamour pistes of Gstaad and St Moritz still crawl with fashionistas as well as families, other somewhat less familiar spots like Verbier, with its sleek Neva\u00ef hotel (www.nevai.ch), and Arosa with the newly renovated Tschuggen Grand (www.tschuggen.ch), are attracting a new wave of style devotees. The Tschuggen features a brand new spa designed by Mario Botta and is marked out by its distinctive triangular glass dormer windows. It is now open during the summer months to host growing numbers of people coming for cycling and walking holidays.", "tags": ["Travel Awards 2008", "Switzerland holidays", "Cultural trips", "Zurich holidays", "Spa breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Art and design", "Culture", "Short breaks"], "title": "Switzerland: More than clocks and chocs"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for those who've never been there, Switzerland wears an aura of exquisite, if slightly boring, perfection. It is a country known mostly for mountains, chocolate, anonymous bank accounts, an exemplary public transport system and finishing schools. But even though it may not be home to cutting-edge music or avant-garde artists, it has been achieving great heights, and not just in its famously pointed topography. Over the last decade or so Switzerland has been undergoing, quietly of course, a style revolution.Some of the world's greatest architecture is now Swiss-made, and some of the world's greatest architects call Switzerland their home. The country that brought us one of the most influential architects of our times, Le Corbusier, is also the birthplace of Herzog and de Meuron (of the Tate Modern). Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is based here, and Norman Foster, who recently renovated the sprawling Dolder Grand hotel near Zurich, has set up home in a chateau outside Geneva. Boutique hotels and modern alpine spas have sprouted, and in the centres of Lucerne, Geneva, Basel and Zurich new design shops and stylish bars abound. Swiss towns still offer enough gingerbread buildings, flower baskets and cuckoo clocks to keep the fairytale alive, but the 21st-century modern movement is emerging in its Swiss perfect way and attracting a new generation of visitors.ZurichIf you really want to see the best of the new Swiss style, you have to go to Zurich, named by Wallpaper magazine as 'Europe's trendiest and most popular city'. Once known as mainly a financial centre, Zurich has experienced a creative explosion. That image got a huge boost when Google chose to establish its European engineering centre here last year, and as one Google employee put it, 'Zurich has all the sophistication of a big city without the dirt and the crime'. Now there is something for everyone: plenty of old-time charm as well as stylish new elements for the design-conscious urban nomad. Elegant traditional hotels and restaurants mix with high-style design hotels and a zingy nightlife in a city named the 'Gay Capital of Switzerland'.Many travellers' first taste of Zurich's design aesthetic starts as soon as they touch down at Zurich-Kloten airport, with its grand glass arrivals lounge and hi-tech new terminal building. Contemporary architecture groupies shouldn't miss Santiago Calatrava's Stadelhofen train station, an early example of the dramatic sweeping forms that have become his trademark in buildings like the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In Zurich you will also find Le Corbusier's last building, the Heidi Weber House in the Zurichhorn Park. Originally built as a private house, it is now an art gallery and home to the Centre Le Corbusier. In town, head for the stylish and stylishly expensive Widder (www.widderhotel.ch), a minimalist boutique hotel with furniture by Adolf Loos, Charles Eames, Le Corbusier and Josef Hoffmann. Or try the ultra-trendy Sorell Hotel Zurichberg (www.zuerichberg.ch), located slightly out of the way on a mountain slope and offering views over the city. The most talked-about hotel of recent months is the Dolder Grand (www.thedoldergrand.com) originally a turreted castle, which has had its grandeur restored and two new energy-efficient wings added along with full spa facilities. For dining it has to be the modern gourmet fare of the Blaue Ente (Seefeldstrasse 223), located inside a revamped turbine hall in a redeveloped industrial area. Afterwards, head to another, edgier, regenerated neighbourhood, Zuri West, where trendy bars and clubs in former factory buildings abound. Club 0815 (Lintheschergasse 23) is a cool modern cafe and bar that hosts an electronic club at night. Also try the popular Labor-bar (Schiffbaustrasse 3), and one of the newest design creations, the Hive (Geroldstrasse 5), which retains the aura of Zurich's famous 'illegal' clubs (ad hoc bars that sprang up around the city without proper licences and are generally known by word of mouth). For retail therapy, visit the Freitag flagship store (Geroldstrasse 17) for something by the Zurich-born brothers known for making bags and accessories from recycled bicycle inner-tubes and seatbelt straps (with designs now in the New York's MoMA). And don't miss a visit to a sauna in a floating pavilion at the Seebad Enge (www.tonttu.ch), probably the coolest of Zurich's lakeside spa/cafe/lounges. Open even in winter, it offers a view of stunning mountain peaks in between a spell in the sauna and a jump into the icy lake. (It's also open for cocktails at night.) BaselThe dark-clothed duo, Herzog and de Meuron, who were responsible for the Beijing Olympic stadium and Tate Modern's transformation from derelict power station to art destination, have their headquarters in Basel. Local projects include the St Jakob 'experience park', a monumental sports stadium that was enlarged further for Euro 2008. The firm is leaving its imprimatur on other aspects of the city with its design for the Fondation Herzog, a museum of the history of photography (Oslo Strasse 8).Basel is also home to one of the world's biggest art fairs, Art Basel, dubbed 'the Olympics of the Art World', which takes place in June. For a more subdued artistic experience, visit the Fondation Beyeler, a collection of modern art housed in a building by architect Renzo Piano (Baselstrasse 101). Basel is a good base for visiting Frank Gehry's Vitra Design Museum, just over the border in Weil am Rhein, Germany (Charles-Eames-Strasse 1), and easy to reach by bus or train. The Vitra Fire Station, designed by Zaha Hadid, is also nearby. Hotels in Basel still tend toward the traditional or the very basic contemporary but the Royal (www.royal-hotel.ch) offers stylish modern rooms arranged according to the principles of feng shui.The mountainsFor centuries the Swiss Alps have been a destination for skiing and spa-ing, but gone are the days when a mountain holiday meant stomping around beneath cuckoo clocks and dried flower arrangements. The building that started Switzerland's rise to high style is the now-famous Therme Vals spa and hotel (www.therme-vals.ch), about 200km outside Zurich in a small mountain town. Vals was a homegrown enterprise that quickly gained a reputation as one of the most elegant creations of the late 20th century. Designed by Peter Zumthor, the buildings are like blocks of sculpture in grey-green quartzite stone set in glorious alpine countryside. The grand spaces are beautifully spare, with not an unnecessary ornament in sight, just stone, water and the occasional piece of glass . A more vibrant atmosphere abounds elsewhere: even the stalwart village of Zermatt has modern boutique hotels and a rousing nightlife. A new four-star hotel, the Matterhorn Focus (www.matterhorn-focus.ch) opened in June and will see its first winter guests this year. Its modern angular form hugs the hillside so that the guest rooms, with wide glass walls, have unimpeded views of the Matterhorn. While the glamour pistes of Gstaad and St Moritz still crawl with fashionistas as well as families, other somewhat less familiar spots like Verbier, with its sleek Neva\u00ef hotel (www.nevai.ch), and Arosa with the newly renovated Tschuggen Grand (www.tschuggen.ch), are attracting a new wave of style devotees. The Tschuggen features a brand new spa designed by Mario Botta and is marked out by its distinctive triangular glass dormer windows. It is now open during the summer months to host growing numbers of people coming for cycling and walking holidays.", "tags": ["Travel Awards 2008", "Switzerland holidays", "Cultural trips", "Zurich holidays", "Spa breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Art and design", "Culture", "Short breaks"], "title": "Switzerland: More than clocks and chocs"},{"date": "2008-12-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The writer Michael Robbins had a clear view about the joys of travelling by train. \"The railway etches in fresh detail to the scene,\" he noted in his 1962 classic The Railway Age. \"It rarely jars and it usually pleases.\" It is, quite simply, the best way to travel: far superior to cramped aircraft or to coaches that twist round narrow continental roads. A train is a calm, contemplative, relaxing - and occasionally romantic - way to begin a holiday.It does have drawbacks, of course. It still takes time to take a train to distant parts, particularly ski resorts. Even Alpine villages relatively close to Britain require a day's travelling, despite the introduction of Eurostar services. Such journey times can seriously diminish a train's allure.But bit by bit, things are getting better - a new line here, a high-speed link there. And last year one of the most dramatic improvements was made by the Swiss, who completed construction of one of Europe's most ambitious railway projects: the 21-mile L\u00f6tschberg Base Tunnel between Bern and Visp.At a cost of \u00a32.5bn, the L\u00f6tschberg is the longest land tunnel in the world and replaces a slower underground rail line. It now sweeps passengers deep below the Alps on journeys between northern and southern Switzerland. It is a major transport boost for the Swiss, but it is also a boon for foreign skiers heading for Switzerland's key resorts direct from the country's main airports at Bern and Zurich. The new tunnel slashes one hour five minutes from the journey, and means you can reach Zermatt, Saas Fee and other major resorts in half the time an airport coach would take - and in style. I recently tested the new tunnel, which opened last year, when I travelled from Zurich airport station on a train, to Visp and then on to Zermatt. The carriages were clean, uncrowded and had two storeys. My daughter Anna and I lounged on the upper deck and watched the Swiss countryside sweep past as we headed west to Bern and from there southwards towards Visp. At L\u00f6tschberg, our train plunged under the mountain at 125mph. More than 16 million tonnes of rock were cleared to construct the tunnel. The Swiss have even put the rail tracks on rubber shoes to absorb vibrations. I checked my mobile phone as we hurtled under the Alps and there was, of course, a signal. Needless to say, after emerging from the tunnel, we swept into Visp exactly on time.From Visp, the train climbs up though the snowline, through tiny villages, chalets and white frozen fields. For this section, it is worth paying extra to sit in the observation carriage so you can get a proper look at the white crags towering over the track. And if you feel like it, you can keep on travelling by rail when you reach Zermatt. At the town's station, the Gornergrat train will take you on the final link of your journey to the Gifthittli ski slopes, an ascent from 1,620m to 3,090m. The trains are heated, regular and offer stunning panoramas as you climb through pine and larch forest and then out on to the glistening Gornergrat ridge, with its fine long runs back down to Riffelalp and Zermatt.The line is Europe's highest open-air cogwheel rail line and has been carrying skiers to the Gifthittli pistes for more than a century, a reminder of the enduring attraction of Zermatt which this year marked its 170th anniversary as a tourist destination. In 1838, a local surgeon opened a guesthouse that could accommodate three people - and it flourished. Tourists came for the mountaineering and later for the skiing. Today, the resort can accommodate 14,000 visitors in 112 hotels and 2,000 holiday apartments, though you can still get a feel of what the old Zermatt must have been like from the old black-beamed barns that stand beside the town's swish restaurants and shops.Over the decades, Zermatt's fortunes have fluctuated. On a previous visit, more than 10 years ago, it was looking a little ragged. Its lifts were cramped and the towbars were ageing. Since then the resort has had a facelift: sumptuous new lifts have been installed; the Klein Matterhorn and Gornergrat pistes are now linked by cable cars; and large electronic display boards providing information about pistes and lifts have been put up at important points. The town still strains to cope with the swathes of skiers who flock here, but just about manages. There are queues on popular lifts at weekends but nothing too extreme. In any case, this is not a resort to take in at a rush. It is one to savour and there is a plethora of good restaurants on the slopes to help you do that. In Zermatt you can eat well in just about every cuisine you care to contemplate. We chose the Zur Alten M\u00fchle for our blow-out night and did well on its seafood starters, steaks and frites. Zermatt - unlike many other Swiss resorts - is also well-supplied with nightclubs, though we confined our apr\u00e8s-ski activities to the Antares Bar, where I discovered Anna had developed a staggering capacity for gin and tonic.For all its glamour, Zermatt would be nothing without the Matterhorn, however. Its enormous, chiselled pyramid towers over its landscape and gives the place a resonance possessed by no other ski resort. Our hotel, the Bijou, had a breakfast bar in its conservatory and we sat mesmerised by the great peak glistening in the sun every morning. It was a perfect start to the day.As for our return journey, that proved to be as relaxing and efficient as our outward trip. Certainly it beats a coach transfer hands down. Indeed, the next time we come to Zermatt, Anna and I have decided we will do the trip properly and go all the way by rail. Eurostar trains leave St Pancras at 7.20am and 8.40am and will get you into Zermatt, via Paris and Lausanne, by 8.14pm and 9.14pm respectively that day. Prices start at around \u00a3160 return. Michael Robbins would certainly have approved.Robin McKie travelled with Swiss International Air Lines (0845 601 0956; swiss.com) which flies from London, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich, Geneva and Basel from \u00a369 return. A \u00a367 Swiss Transfer Ticket allows a return rail transfer from Swiss airports to resorts, but must be bought in the UK from the Switzerland Travel Centre on 00 800 100 200 30 or at myswitzerland.com/rail. Under-16s travel free, with a paying adult. The Bijou Hotel (00 41 27 966 5151; hotel-bijou.ch) offers doubles from CHF130 (\u00a376).", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Switzerland: Express train route to the Zermatt slopes"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for those who've never been there, Switzerland wears an aura of exquisite, if slightly boring, perfection. It is a country known mostly for mountains, chocolate, anonymous bank accounts, an exemplary public transport system and finishing schools. But even though it may not be home to cutting-edge music or avant-garde artists, it has been achieving great heights, and not just in its famously pointed topography. Over the last decade or so Switzerland has been undergoing, quietly of course, a style revolution.Some of the world's greatest architecture is now Swiss-made, and some of the world's greatest architects call Switzerland their home. The country that brought us one of the most influential architects of our times, Le Corbusier, is also the birthplace of Herzog and de Meuron (of the Tate Modern). Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is based here, and Norman Foster, who recently renovated the sprawling Dolder Grand hotel near Zurich, has set up home in a chateau outside Geneva. Boutique hotels and modern alpine spas have sprouted, and in the centres of Lucerne, Geneva, Basel and Zurich new design shops and stylish bars abound. Swiss towns still offer enough gingerbread buildings, flower baskets and cuckoo clocks to keep the fairytale alive, but the 21st-century modern movement is emerging in its Swiss perfect way and attracting a new generation of visitors.ZurichIf you really want to see the best of the new Swiss style, you have to go to Zurich, named by Wallpaper magazine as 'Europe's trendiest and most popular city'. Once known as mainly a financial centre, Zurich has experienced a creative explosion. That image got a huge boost when Google chose to establish its European engineering centre here last year, and as one Google employee put it, 'Zurich has all the sophistication of a big city without the dirt and the crime'. Now there is something for everyone: plenty of old-time charm as well as stylish new elements for the design-conscious urban nomad. Elegant traditional hotels and restaurants mix with high-style design hotels and a zingy nightlife in a city named the 'Gay Capital of Switzerland'.Many travellers' first taste of Zurich's design aesthetic starts as soon as they touch down at Zurich-Kloten airport, with its grand glass arrivals lounge and hi-tech new terminal building. Contemporary architecture groupies shouldn't miss Santiago Calatrava's Stadelhofen train station, an early example of the dramatic sweeping forms that have become his trademark in buildings like the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In Zurich you will also find Le Corbusier's last building, the Heidi Weber House in the Zurichhorn Park. Originally built as a private house, it is now an art gallery and home to the Centre Le Corbusier. In town, head for the stylish and stylishly expensive Widder (www.widderhotel.ch), a minimalist boutique hotel with furniture by Adolf Loos, Charles Eames, Le Corbusier and Josef Hoffmann. Or try the ultra-trendy Sorell Hotel Zurichberg (www.zuerichberg.ch), located slightly out of the way on a mountain slope and offering views over the city. The most talked-about hotel of recent months is the Dolder Grand (www.thedoldergrand.com) originally a turreted castle, which has had its grandeur restored and two new energy-efficient wings added along with full spa facilities. For dining it has to be the modern gourmet fare of the Blaue Ente (Seefeldstrasse 223), located inside a revamped turbine hall in a redeveloped industrial area. Afterwards, head to another, edgier, regenerated neighbourhood, Zuri West, where trendy bars and clubs in former factory buildings abound. Club 0815 (Lintheschergasse 23) is a cool modern cafe and bar that hosts an electronic club at night. Also try the popular Labor-bar (Schiffbaustrasse 3), and one of the newest design creations, the Hive (Geroldstrasse 5), which retains the aura of Zurich's famous 'illegal' clubs (ad hoc bars that sprang up around the city without proper licences and are generally known by word of mouth). For retail therapy, visit the Freitag flagship store (Geroldstrasse 17) for something by the Zurich-born brothers known for making bags and accessories from recycled bicycle inner-tubes and seatbelt straps (with designs now in the New York's MoMA). And don't miss a visit to a sauna in a floating pavilion at the Seebad Enge (www.tonttu.ch), probably the coolest of Zurich's lakeside spa/cafe/lounges. Open even in winter, it offers a view of stunning mountain peaks in between a spell in the sauna and a jump into the icy lake. (It's also open for cocktails at night.) BaselThe dark-clothed duo, Herzog and de Meuron, who were responsible for the Beijing Olympic stadium and Tate Modern's transformation from derelict power station to art destination, have their headquarters in Basel. Local projects include the St Jakob 'experience park', a monumental sports stadium that was enlarged further for Euro 2008. The firm is leaving its imprimatur on other aspects of the city with its design for the Fondation Herzog, a museum of the history of photography (Oslo Strasse 8).Basel is also home to one of the world's biggest art fairs, Art Basel, dubbed 'the Olympics of the Art World', which takes place in June. For a more subdued artistic experience, visit the Fondation Beyeler, a collection of modern art housed in a building by architect Renzo Piano (Baselstrasse 101). Basel is a good base for visiting Frank Gehry's Vitra Design Museum, just over the border in Weil am Rhein, Germany (Charles-Eames-Strasse 1), and easy to reach by bus or train. The Vitra Fire Station, designed by Zaha Hadid, is also nearby. Hotels in Basel still tend toward the traditional or the very basic contemporary but the Royal (www.royal-hotel.ch) offers stylish modern rooms arranged according to the principles of feng shui.The mountainsFor centuries the Swiss Alps have been a destination for skiing and spa-ing, but gone are the days when a mountain holiday meant stomping around beneath cuckoo clocks and dried flower arrangements. The building that started Switzerland's rise to high style is the now-famous Therme Vals spa and hotel (www.therme-vals.ch), about 200km outside Zurich in a small mountain town. Vals was a homegrown enterprise that quickly gained a reputation as one of the most elegant creations of the late 20th century. Designed by Peter Zumthor, the buildings are like blocks of sculpture in grey-green quartzite stone set in glorious alpine countryside. The grand spaces are beautifully spare, with not an unnecessary ornament in sight, just stone, water and the occasional piece of glass . A more vibrant atmosphere abounds elsewhere: even the stalwart village of Zermatt has modern boutique hotels and a rousing nightlife. A new four-star hotel, the Matterhorn Focus (www.matterhorn-focus.ch) opened in June and will see its first winter guests this year. Its modern angular form hugs the hillside so that the guest rooms, with wide glass walls, have unimpeded views of the Matterhorn. While the glamour pistes of Gstaad and St Moritz still crawl with fashionistas as well as families, other somewhat less familiar spots like Verbier, with its sleek Neva\u00ef hotel (www.nevai.ch), and Arosa with the newly renovated Tschuggen Grand (www.tschuggen.ch), are attracting a new wave of style devotees. The Tschuggen features a brand new spa designed by Mario Botta and is marked out by its distinctive triangular glass dormer windows. It is now open during the summer months to host growing numbers of people coming for cycling and walking holidays.", "tags": ["Travel Awards 2008", "Switzerland holidays", "Cultural trips", "Zurich holidays", "Spa breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Art and design", "Culture", "Short breaks"], "title": "Switzerland: More than clocks and chocs"},{"date": "2008-12-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The writer Michael Robbins had a clear view about the joys of travelling by train. \"The railway etches in fresh detail to the scene,\" he noted in his 1962 classic The Railway Age. \"It rarely jars and it usually pleases.\" It is, quite simply, the best way to travel: far superior to cramped aircraft or to coaches that twist round narrow continental roads. A train is a calm, contemplative, relaxing - and occasionally romantic - way to begin a holiday.It does have drawbacks, of course. It still takes time to take a train to distant parts, particularly ski resorts. Even Alpine villages relatively close to Britain require a day's travelling, despite the introduction of Eurostar services. Such journey times can seriously diminish a train's allure.But bit by bit, things are getting better - a new line here, a high-speed link there. And last year one of the most dramatic improvements was made by the Swiss, who completed construction of one of Europe's most ambitious railway projects: the 21-mile L\u00f6tschberg Base Tunnel between Bern and Visp.At a cost of \u00a32.5bn, the L\u00f6tschberg is the longest land tunnel in the world and replaces a slower underground rail line. It now sweeps passengers deep below the Alps on journeys between northern and southern Switzerland. It is a major transport boost for the Swiss, but it is also a boon for foreign skiers heading for Switzerland's key resorts direct from the country's main airports at Bern and Zurich. The new tunnel slashes one hour five minutes from the journey, and means you can reach Zermatt, Saas Fee and other major resorts in half the time an airport coach would take - and in style. I recently tested the new tunnel, which opened last year, when I travelled from Zurich airport station on a train, to Visp and then on to Zermatt. The carriages were clean, uncrowded and had two storeys. My daughter Anna and I lounged on the upper deck and watched the Swiss countryside sweep past as we headed west to Bern and from there southwards towards Visp. At L\u00f6tschberg, our train plunged under the mountain at 125mph. More than 16 million tonnes of rock were cleared to construct the tunnel. The Swiss have even put the rail tracks on rubber shoes to absorb vibrations. I checked my mobile phone as we hurtled under the Alps and there was, of course, a signal. Needless to say, after emerging from the tunnel, we swept into Visp exactly on time.From Visp, the train climbs up though the snowline, through tiny villages, chalets and white frozen fields. For this section, it is worth paying extra to sit in the observation carriage so you can get a proper look at the white crags towering over the track. And if you feel like it, you can keep on travelling by rail when you reach Zermatt. At the town's station, the Gornergrat train will take you on the final link of your journey to the Gifthittli ski slopes, an ascent from 1,620m to 3,090m. The trains are heated, regular and offer stunning panoramas as you climb through pine and larch forest and then out on to the glistening Gornergrat ridge, with its fine long runs back down to Riffelalp and Zermatt.The line is Europe's highest open-air cogwheel rail line and has been carrying skiers to the Gifthittli pistes for more than a century, a reminder of the enduring attraction of Zermatt which this year marked its 170th anniversary as a tourist destination. In 1838, a local surgeon opened a guesthouse that could accommodate three people - and it flourished. Tourists came for the mountaineering and later for the skiing. Today, the resort can accommodate 14,000 visitors in 112 hotels and 2,000 holiday apartments, though you can still get a feel of what the old Zermatt must have been like from the old black-beamed barns that stand beside the town's swish restaurants and shops.Over the decades, Zermatt's fortunes have fluctuated. On a previous visit, more than 10 years ago, it was looking a little ragged. Its lifts were cramped and the towbars were ageing. Since then the resort has had a facelift: sumptuous new lifts have been installed; the Klein Matterhorn and Gornergrat pistes are now linked by cable cars; and large electronic display boards providing information about pistes and lifts have been put up at important points. The town still strains to cope with the swathes of skiers who flock here, but just about manages. There are queues on popular lifts at weekends but nothing too extreme. In any case, this is not a resort to take in at a rush. It is one to savour and there is a plethora of good restaurants on the slopes to help you do that. In Zermatt you can eat well in just about every cuisine you care to contemplate. We chose the Zur Alten M\u00fchle for our blow-out night and did well on its seafood starters, steaks and frites. Zermatt - unlike many other Swiss resorts - is also well-supplied with nightclubs, though we confined our apr\u00e8s-ski activities to the Antares Bar, where I discovered Anna had developed a staggering capacity for gin and tonic.For all its glamour, Zermatt would be nothing without the Matterhorn, however. Its enormous, chiselled pyramid towers over its landscape and gives the place a resonance possessed by no other ski resort. Our hotel, the Bijou, had a breakfast bar in its conservatory and we sat mesmerised by the great peak glistening in the sun every morning. It was a perfect start to the day.As for our return journey, that proved to be as relaxing and efficient as our outward trip. Certainly it beats a coach transfer hands down. Indeed, the next time we come to Zermatt, Anna and I have decided we will do the trip properly and go all the way by rail. Eurostar trains leave St Pancras at 7.20am and 8.40am and will get you into Zermatt, via Paris and Lausanne, by 8.14pm and 9.14pm respectively that day. Prices start at around \u00a3160 return. Michael Robbins would certainly have approved.Robin McKie travelled with Swiss International Air Lines (0845 601 0956; swiss.com) which flies from London, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich, Geneva and Basel from \u00a369 return. A \u00a367 Swiss Transfer Ticket allows a return rail transfer from Swiss airports to resorts, but must be bought in the UK from the Switzerland Travel Centre on 00 800 100 200 30 or at myswitzerland.com/rail. Under-16s travel free, with a paying adult. The Bijou Hotel (00 41 27 966 5151; hotel-bijou.ch) offers doubles from CHF130 (\u00a376).", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Switzerland: Express train route to the Zermatt slopes"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A 23-year-old who played rugby for England as a teenager has committed suicide in a Swiss euthanasia clinic after having become paralysed from the chest down in a training accident. Police are investigating.Nuneaton rugby club hooker Daniel James felt his body had become a \"prison\" and lived in \"fear and loathing\" of his daily life, his parents said last night, having accompanied him to Switzerland from their home in Sinton Green, near Worcester. He had attempted to kill himself several times since March 2007 when a scrum had collapsed on him and dislocated his neck vertebrae, trapping his spinal cord and rendering him immediately tetraplegic.West Mercia Police have begun an investigation into his assisted suicide, which took place on September 12. Details were made public yesterday when police published a statement relating to an inquest in progress. Assisted suicide is illegal in the UK, and family or friends who help face up to 14 years in jail. Officers have questioned a man and a women in the case and are preparing to submit a report to the Crown Prosecution Service.James' parents, Mark and Julie, said last night that their son had been \"an intelligent young man of sound mind\" and \"not prepared to live what he felt was a second-class existence\".He is one of the youngest Britons to have travelled abroad for assisted suicide. Earlier this month, Dignitas, the centre for assisted dying in Zurich, said that 100 Britons have travelled to Switzerland to make use of its more liberal laws. It is thought James attended a clinic in Berne.James was a talented player who seemed destined for a professional career. He played for England at under-16 level and went on to play for Loughborough University, where he was an engineering undergraduate. The training accident happened four days after he helped England Students beat a France side in Oxford.In a training session for forwards, he was practising a scrum when the pack came crashing down. Under their weight, he dislocated bones in his neck and trapped the spinal cord.In the following weeks he had several operations and spent eight months in rehabilitation, including a stay at Stoke Mandeville hospital, before returning home; he only ever regained a small amount of use in his fingers. Early last month he travelled to Switzerland. His funeral took place in the UK on October 1.\"His death was an extremely sad loss for his family, friends and all those that cared for him, but no doubt a welcome relief from the prison he felt his body had become and the day to day fear and loathing of his living existence,\" the James family solicitors said last night. \"This is the last way that the family wanted Dan's life to end, but he was, as those who know him are aware, an intelligent, strong-willed, and some say determined young man.\" Yesterday the Spinal Injuries Association expressed shock. \"When someone has an injury like this, you think its the end of the world as life is going to change for ever,\" said Daniel Burden, head of public affairs. \"But our mantra is that life need not end if you are paralysed. We know of people with similar or worse injuries than Dan who have lived fulfilling lives.\"The case comes as Debbie Purdy, 45, who has primary progressive multiple sclerosis, awaits a high court judgement seeking clarification of the legal status of family and friends who accompany people who commit assisted suicide. Her action is being supported by Dignity in Dying, which campaigns for a law change to allow terminally ill and mentally competent patients to choose assisted death in the UK. James, who was not terminally ill, would not have been eligible under any such alteration of the law. Prior to his death, James's uncle, Mark Roebuck, who started The Dan James Trust which raised nearly \u00a325,000 for spinal research, paid tribute to his nephew.\"On Monday March 12 2007 Dan was just like thousands of 23-year-olds, full of life, hope, excitement and dreams. Whatever he chose to do, he would have done it with the good humour and lovely nature that made him a lovable young man.\"The message boards on Nuneaton rugby club's website carried tributes yesterday. \"This is really sad and tragic news, and it makes all the silly arguments with the rugby and football club very trivial and unimportant,\" said Nutty Nun. \"My thoughts, sympathy and prayers are with Dan's family. RIP Dan.\"Although suicide is no longer a crime in England and Wales, it is still an offence under the Suicide Act 1961 to \"aid, counsel or procure the suicide of another\"; the penalty is up to 14 years' imprisonment, and there have been 12 prosecutions since 2005.The only jurisdictions where assisted suicide is not illegal are Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the state of Oregon in the US. Although Swiss law does not specifically permit assisted suicide or provide any details about how it can be done legally, it does not prohibit it either. Several clinics have been established, providing facilities for terminally ill people to commit suicide, including Dignitas in Berne, the only clinic which offers its services to people not living in Switzerland. Since it opened in 1998 it has helped 868 people to end their lives, 100 of them from the UK.Dignitas's motto is \"to live with dignity - to die with dignity\". It offers a service to the terminally ill and their families including accommodation, access to doctors and a dose of a drug causing a deep coma and painless death. However, anyone who accompanies a relative to Dignitas risks prosecution on their return for assisting suicide contrary to English law.Afua Hirsch", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "'He wasn't prepared for a second-class life': why injured rugby star went to Switzerland to die"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for those who've never been there, Switzerland wears an aura of exquisite, if slightly boring, perfection. It is a country known mostly for mountains, chocolate, anonymous bank accounts, an exemplary public transport system and finishing schools. But even though it may not be home to cutting-edge music or avant-garde artists, it has been achieving great heights, and not just in its famously pointed topography. Over the last decade or so Switzerland has been undergoing, quietly of course, a style revolution.Some of the world's greatest architecture is now Swiss-made, and some of the world's greatest architects call Switzerland their home. The country that brought us one of the most influential architects of our times, Le Corbusier, is also the birthplace of Herzog and de Meuron (of the Tate Modern). Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is based here, and Norman Foster, who recently renovated the sprawling Dolder Grand hotel near Zurich, has set up home in a chateau outside Geneva. Boutique hotels and modern alpine spas have sprouted, and in the centres of Lucerne, Geneva, Basel and Zurich new design shops and stylish bars abound. Swiss towns still offer enough gingerbread buildings, flower baskets and cuckoo clocks to keep the fairytale alive, but the 21st-century modern movement is emerging in its Swiss perfect way and attracting a new generation of visitors.ZurichIf you really want to see the best of the new Swiss style, you have to go to Zurich, named by Wallpaper magazine as 'Europe's trendiest and most popular city'. Once known as mainly a financial centre, Zurich has experienced a creative explosion. That image got a huge boost when Google chose to establish its European engineering centre here last year, and as one Google employee put it, 'Zurich has all the sophistication of a big city without the dirt and the crime'. Now there is something for everyone: plenty of old-time charm as well as stylish new elements for the design-conscious urban nomad. Elegant traditional hotels and restaurants mix with high-style design hotels and a zingy nightlife in a city named the 'Gay Capital of Switzerland'.Many travellers' first taste of Zurich's design aesthetic starts as soon as they touch down at Zurich-Kloten airport, with its grand glass arrivals lounge and hi-tech new terminal building. Contemporary architecture groupies shouldn't miss Santiago Calatrava's Stadelhofen train station, an early example of the dramatic sweeping forms that have become his trademark in buildings like the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In Zurich you will also find Le Corbusier's last building, the Heidi Weber House in the Zurichhorn Park. Originally built as a private house, it is now an art gallery and home to the Centre Le Corbusier. In town, head for the stylish and stylishly expensive Widder (www.widderhotel.ch), a minimalist boutique hotel with furniture by Adolf Loos, Charles Eames, Le Corbusier and Josef Hoffmann. Or try the ultra-trendy Sorell Hotel Zurichberg (www.zuerichberg.ch), located slightly out of the way on a mountain slope and offering views over the city. The most talked-about hotel of recent months is the Dolder Grand (www.thedoldergrand.com) originally a turreted castle, which has had its grandeur restored and two new energy-efficient wings added along with full spa facilities. For dining it has to be the modern gourmet fare of the Blaue Ente (Seefeldstrasse 223), located inside a revamped turbine hall in a redeveloped industrial area. Afterwards, head to another, edgier, regenerated neighbourhood, Zuri West, where trendy bars and clubs in former factory buildings abound. Club 0815 (Lintheschergasse 23) is a cool modern cafe and bar that hosts an electronic club at night. Also try the popular Labor-bar (Schiffbaustrasse 3), and one of the newest design creations, the Hive (Geroldstrasse 5), which retains the aura of Zurich's famous 'illegal' clubs (ad hoc bars that sprang up around the city without proper licences and are generally known by word of mouth). For retail therapy, visit the Freitag flagship store (Geroldstrasse 17) for something by the Zurich-born brothers known for making bags and accessories from recycled bicycle inner-tubes and seatbelt straps (with designs now in the New York's MoMA). And don't miss a visit to a sauna in a floating pavilion at the Seebad Enge (www.tonttu.ch), probably the coolest of Zurich's lakeside spa/cafe/lounges. Open even in winter, it offers a view of stunning mountain peaks in between a spell in the sauna and a jump into the icy lake. (It's also open for cocktails at night.) BaselThe dark-clothed duo, Herzog and de Meuron, who were responsible for the Beijing Olympic stadium and Tate Modern's transformation from derelict power station to art destination, have their headquarters in Basel. Local projects include the St Jakob 'experience park', a monumental sports stadium that was enlarged further for Euro 2008. The firm is leaving its imprimatur on other aspects of the city with its design for the Fondation Herzog, a museum of the history of photography (Oslo Strasse 8).Basel is also home to one of the world's biggest art fairs, Art Basel, dubbed 'the Olympics of the Art World', which takes place in June. For a more subdued artistic experience, visit the Fondation Beyeler, a collection of modern art housed in a building by architect Renzo Piano (Baselstrasse 101). Basel is a good base for visiting Frank Gehry's Vitra Design Museum, just over the border in Weil am Rhein, Germany (Charles-Eames-Strasse 1), and easy to reach by bus or train. The Vitra Fire Station, designed by Zaha Hadid, is also nearby. Hotels in Basel still tend toward the traditional or the very basic contemporary but the Royal (www.royal-hotel.ch) offers stylish modern rooms arranged according to the principles of feng shui.The mountainsFor centuries the Swiss Alps have been a destination for skiing and spa-ing, but gone are the days when a mountain holiday meant stomping around beneath cuckoo clocks and dried flower arrangements. The building that started Switzerland's rise to high style is the now-famous Therme Vals spa and hotel (www.therme-vals.ch), about 200km outside Zurich in a small mountain town. Vals was a homegrown enterprise that quickly gained a reputation as one of the most elegant creations of the late 20th century. Designed by Peter Zumthor, the buildings are like blocks of sculpture in grey-green quartzite stone set in glorious alpine countryside. The grand spaces are beautifully spare, with not an unnecessary ornament in sight, just stone, water and the occasional piece of glass . A more vibrant atmosphere abounds elsewhere: even the stalwart village of Zermatt has modern boutique hotels and a rousing nightlife. A new four-star hotel, the Matterhorn Focus (www.matterhorn-focus.ch) opened in June and will see its first winter guests this year. Its modern angular form hugs the hillside so that the guest rooms, with wide glass walls, have unimpeded views of the Matterhorn. While the glamour pistes of Gstaad and St Moritz still crawl with fashionistas as well as families, other somewhat less familiar spots like Verbier, with its sleek Neva\u00ef hotel (www.nevai.ch), and Arosa with the newly renovated Tschuggen Grand (www.tschuggen.ch), are attracting a new wave of style devotees. The Tschuggen features a brand new spa designed by Mario Botta and is marked out by its distinctive triangular glass dormer windows. It is now open during the summer months to host growing numbers of people coming for cycling and walking holidays.", "tags": ["Travel Awards 2008", "Switzerland holidays", "Cultural trips", "Zurich holidays", "Spa breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Art and design", "Culture", "Short breaks"], "title": "Switzerland: More than clocks and chocs"},{"date": "2008-12-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The writer Michael Robbins had a clear view about the joys of travelling by train. \"The railway etches in fresh detail to the scene,\" he noted in his 1962 classic The Railway Age. \"It rarely jars and it usually pleases.\" It is, quite simply, the best way to travel: far superior to cramped aircraft or to coaches that twist round narrow continental roads. A train is a calm, contemplative, relaxing - and occasionally romantic - way to begin a holiday.It does have drawbacks, of course. It still takes time to take a train to distant parts, particularly ski resorts. Even Alpine villages relatively close to Britain require a day's travelling, despite the introduction of Eurostar services. Such journey times can seriously diminish a train's allure.But bit by bit, things are getting better - a new line here, a high-speed link there. And last year one of the most dramatic improvements was made by the Swiss, who completed construction of one of Europe's most ambitious railway projects: the 21-mile L\u00f6tschberg Base Tunnel between Bern and Visp.At a cost of \u00a32.5bn, the L\u00f6tschberg is the longest land tunnel in the world and replaces a slower underground rail line. It now sweeps passengers deep below the Alps on journeys between northern and southern Switzerland. It is a major transport boost for the Swiss, but it is also a boon for foreign skiers heading for Switzerland's key resorts direct from the country's main airports at Bern and Zurich. The new tunnel slashes one hour five minutes from the journey, and means you can reach Zermatt, Saas Fee and other major resorts in half the time an airport coach would take - and in style. I recently tested the new tunnel, which opened last year, when I travelled from Zurich airport station on a train, to Visp and then on to Zermatt. The carriages were clean, uncrowded and had two storeys. My daughter Anna and I lounged on the upper deck and watched the Swiss countryside sweep past as we headed west to Bern and from there southwards towards Visp. At L\u00f6tschberg, our train plunged under the mountain at 125mph. More than 16 million tonnes of rock were cleared to construct the tunnel. The Swiss have even put the rail tracks on rubber shoes to absorb vibrations. I checked my mobile phone as we hurtled under the Alps and there was, of course, a signal. Needless to say, after emerging from the tunnel, we swept into Visp exactly on time.From Visp, the train climbs up though the snowline, through tiny villages, chalets and white frozen fields. For this section, it is worth paying extra to sit in the observation carriage so you can get a proper look at the white crags towering over the track. And if you feel like it, you can keep on travelling by rail when you reach Zermatt. At the town's station, the Gornergrat train will take you on the final link of your journey to the Gifthittli ski slopes, an ascent from 1,620m to 3,090m. The trains are heated, regular and offer stunning panoramas as you climb through pine and larch forest and then out on to the glistening Gornergrat ridge, with its fine long runs back down to Riffelalp and Zermatt.The line is Europe's highest open-air cogwheel rail line and has been carrying skiers to the Gifthittli pistes for more than a century, a reminder of the enduring attraction of Zermatt which this year marked its 170th anniversary as a tourist destination. In 1838, a local surgeon opened a guesthouse that could accommodate three people - and it flourished. Tourists came for the mountaineering and later for the skiing. Today, the resort can accommodate 14,000 visitors in 112 hotels and 2,000 holiday apartments, though you can still get a feel of what the old Zermatt must have been like from the old black-beamed barns that stand beside the town's swish restaurants and shops.Over the decades, Zermatt's fortunes have fluctuated. On a previous visit, more than 10 years ago, it was looking a little ragged. Its lifts were cramped and the towbars were ageing. Since then the resort has had a facelift: sumptuous new lifts have been installed; the Klein Matterhorn and Gornergrat pistes are now linked by cable cars; and large electronic display boards providing information about pistes and lifts have been put up at important points. The town still strains to cope with the swathes of skiers who flock here, but just about manages. There are queues on popular lifts at weekends but nothing too extreme. In any case, this is not a resort to take in at a rush. It is one to savour and there is a plethora of good restaurants on the slopes to help you do that. In Zermatt you can eat well in just about every cuisine you care to contemplate. We chose the Zur Alten M\u00fchle for our blow-out night and did well on its seafood starters, steaks and frites. Zermatt - unlike many other Swiss resorts - is also well-supplied with nightclubs, though we confined our apr\u00e8s-ski activities to the Antares Bar, where I discovered Anna had developed a staggering capacity for gin and tonic.For all its glamour, Zermatt would be nothing without the Matterhorn, however. Its enormous, chiselled pyramid towers over its landscape and gives the place a resonance possessed by no other ski resort. Our hotel, the Bijou, had a breakfast bar in its conservatory and we sat mesmerised by the great peak glistening in the sun every morning. It was a perfect start to the day.As for our return journey, that proved to be as relaxing and efficient as our outward trip. Certainly it beats a coach transfer hands down. Indeed, the next time we come to Zermatt, Anna and I have decided we will do the trip properly and go all the way by rail. Eurostar trains leave St Pancras at 7.20am and 8.40am and will get you into Zermatt, via Paris and Lausanne, by 8.14pm and 9.14pm respectively that day. Prices start at around \u00a3160 return. Michael Robbins would certainly have approved.Robin McKie travelled with Swiss International Air Lines (0845 601 0956; swiss.com) which flies from London, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich, Geneva and Basel from \u00a369 return. A \u00a367 Swiss Transfer Ticket allows a return rail transfer from Swiss airports to resorts, but must be bought in the UK from the Switzerland Travel Centre on 00 800 100 200 30 or at myswitzerland.com/rail. Under-16s travel free, with a paying adult. The Bijou Hotel (00 41 27 966 5151; hotel-bijou.ch) offers doubles from CHF130 (\u00a376).", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Switzerland: Express train route to the Zermatt slopes"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A 23-year-old who played rugby for England as a teenager has committed suicide in a Swiss euthanasia clinic after having become paralysed from the chest down in a training accident. Police are investigating.Nuneaton rugby club hooker Daniel James felt his body had become a \"prison\" and lived in \"fear and loathing\" of his daily life, his parents said last night, having accompanied him to Switzerland from their home in Sinton Green, near Worcester. He had attempted to kill himself several times since March 2007 when a scrum had collapsed on him and dislocated his neck vertebrae, trapping his spinal cord and rendering him immediately tetraplegic.West Mercia Police have begun an investigation into his assisted suicide, which took place on September 12. Details were made public yesterday when police published a statement relating to an inquest in progress. Assisted suicide is illegal in the UK, and family or friends who help face up to 14 years in jail. Officers have questioned a man and a women in the case and are preparing to submit a report to the Crown Prosecution Service.James' parents, Mark and Julie, said last night that their son had been \"an intelligent young man of sound mind\" and \"not prepared to live what he felt was a second-class existence\".He is one of the youngest Britons to have travelled abroad for assisted suicide. Earlier this month, Dignitas, the centre for assisted dying in Zurich, said that 100 Britons have travelled to Switzerland to make use of its more liberal laws. It is thought James attended a clinic in Berne.James was a talented player who seemed destined for a professional career. He played for England at under-16 level and went on to play for Loughborough University, where he was an engineering undergraduate. The training accident happened four days after he helped England Students beat a France side in Oxford.In a training session for forwards, he was practising a scrum when the pack came crashing down. Under their weight, he dislocated bones in his neck and trapped the spinal cord.In the following weeks he had several operations and spent eight months in rehabilitation, including a stay at Stoke Mandeville hospital, before returning home; he only ever regained a small amount of use in his fingers. Early last month he travelled to Switzerland. His funeral took place in the UK on October 1.\"His death was an extremely sad loss for his family, friends and all those that cared for him, but no doubt a welcome relief from the prison he felt his body had become and the day to day fear and loathing of his living existence,\" the James family solicitors said last night. \"This is the last way that the family wanted Dan's life to end, but he was, as those who know him are aware, an intelligent, strong-willed, and some say determined young man.\" Yesterday the Spinal Injuries Association expressed shock. \"When someone has an injury like this, you think its the end of the world as life is going to change for ever,\" said Daniel Burden, head of public affairs. \"But our mantra is that life need not end if you are paralysed. We know of people with similar or worse injuries than Dan who have lived fulfilling lives.\"The case comes as Debbie Purdy, 45, who has primary progressive multiple sclerosis, awaits a high court judgement seeking clarification of the legal status of family and friends who accompany people who commit assisted suicide. Her action is being supported by Dignity in Dying, which campaigns for a law change to allow terminally ill and mentally competent patients to choose assisted death in the UK. James, who was not terminally ill, would not have been eligible under any such alteration of the law. Prior to his death, James's uncle, Mark Roebuck, who started The Dan James Trust which raised nearly \u00a325,000 for spinal research, paid tribute to his nephew.\"On Monday March 12 2007 Dan was just like thousands of 23-year-olds, full of life, hope, excitement and dreams. Whatever he chose to do, he would have done it with the good humour and lovely nature that made him a lovable young man.\"The message boards on Nuneaton rugby club's website carried tributes yesterday. \"This is really sad and tragic news, and it makes all the silly arguments with the rugby and football club very trivial and unimportant,\" said Nutty Nun. \"My thoughts, sympathy and prayers are with Dan's family. RIP Dan.\"Although suicide is no longer a crime in England and Wales, it is still an offence under the Suicide Act 1961 to \"aid, counsel or procure the suicide of another\"; the penalty is up to 14 years' imprisonment, and there have been 12 prosecutions since 2005.The only jurisdictions where assisted suicide is not illegal are Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the state of Oregon in the US. Although Swiss law does not specifically permit assisted suicide or provide any details about how it can be done legally, it does not prohibit it either. Several clinics have been established, providing facilities for terminally ill people to commit suicide, including Dignitas in Berne, the only clinic which offers its services to people not living in Switzerland. Since it opened in 1998 it has helped 868 people to end their lives, 100 of them from the UK.Dignitas's motto is \"to live with dignity - to die with dignity\". It offers a service to the terminally ill and their families including accommodation, access to doctors and a dose of a drug causing a deep coma and painless death. However, anyone who accompanies a relative to Dignitas risks prosecution on their return for assisting suicide contrary to English law.Afua Hirsch", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "'He wasn't prepared for a second-class life': why injured rugby star went to Switzerland to die"},{"date": "2008-12-09T14:24:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "No charges are to be brought against the family of a paralysed rugby player for helping him travel to Switzerland to end his life, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) ruled today. Daniel James, 23, died at a clinic run by the Dignitas organisation on September 12, more than a year after a rugby accident left him paralysed from the chest down. The CPS considered bringing charges under the Suicide Act against his parents, Mark and Julie James, from Sinton Green, Worcester. But the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, said today such a prosecution would not be in the public interest and no further action would be taken against the couple.Mr Starmer said that while public interest factors to support a prosecution did exist, among them the seriousness of the case, these were outweighed by arguments against. \"This is a tragic case, involving as it does the death of a young man in difficult and unique circumstances,\" he said. \"In reaching my decision I have given careful consideration to the code for crown prosecutors. \"In particular, but not exclusively, I would point to the fact that Daniel, as a fiercely independent young man, was not influenced by his parents to take his own life, and the evidence indicates he did so despite their imploring him not to.\" A training ground injury in March 2007 left James paralysed from the chest down, with no independent hand or finger movement. Eight months later, his consultant said it was unlikely he would ever enjoy a significant recovery.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news"], "title": "Suicide rugby player Daniel James: CPS rules out charges"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for those who've never been there, Switzerland wears an aura of exquisite, if slightly boring, perfection. It is a country known mostly for mountains, chocolate, anonymous bank accounts, an exemplary public transport system and finishing schools. But even though it may not be home to cutting-edge music or avant-garde artists, it has been achieving great heights, and not just in its famously pointed topography. Over the last decade or so Switzerland has been undergoing, quietly of course, a style revolution.Some of the world's greatest architecture is now Swiss-made, and some of the world's greatest architects call Switzerland their home. The country that brought us one of the most influential architects of our times, Le Corbusier, is also the birthplace of Herzog and de Meuron (of the Tate Modern). Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is based here, and Norman Foster, who recently renovated the sprawling Dolder Grand hotel near Zurich, has set up home in a chateau outside Geneva. Boutique hotels and modern alpine spas have sprouted, and in the centres of Lucerne, Geneva, Basel and Zurich new design shops and stylish bars abound. Swiss towns still offer enough gingerbread buildings, flower baskets and cuckoo clocks to keep the fairytale alive, but the 21st-century modern movement is emerging in its Swiss perfect way and attracting a new generation of visitors.ZurichIf you really want to see the best of the new Swiss style, you have to go to Zurich, named by Wallpaper magazine as 'Europe's trendiest and most popular city'. Once known as mainly a financial centre, Zurich has experienced a creative explosion. That image got a huge boost when Google chose to establish its European engineering centre here last year, and as one Google employee put it, 'Zurich has all the sophistication of a big city without the dirt and the crime'. Now there is something for everyone: plenty of old-time charm as well as stylish new elements for the design-conscious urban nomad. Elegant traditional hotels and restaurants mix with high-style design hotels and a zingy nightlife in a city named the 'Gay Capital of Switzerland'.Many travellers' first taste of Zurich's design aesthetic starts as soon as they touch down at Zurich-Kloten airport, with its grand glass arrivals lounge and hi-tech new terminal building. Contemporary architecture groupies shouldn't miss Santiago Calatrava's Stadelhofen train station, an early example of the dramatic sweeping forms that have become his trademark in buildings like the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In Zurich you will also find Le Corbusier's last building, the Heidi Weber House in the Zurichhorn Park. Originally built as a private house, it is now an art gallery and home to the Centre Le Corbusier. In town, head for the stylish and stylishly expensive Widder (www.widderhotel.ch), a minimalist boutique hotel with furniture by Adolf Loos, Charles Eames, Le Corbusier and Josef Hoffmann. Or try the ultra-trendy Sorell Hotel Zurichberg (www.zuerichberg.ch), located slightly out of the way on a mountain slope and offering views over the city. The most talked-about hotel of recent months is the Dolder Grand (www.thedoldergrand.com) originally a turreted castle, which has had its grandeur restored and two new energy-efficient wings added along with full spa facilities. For dining it has to be the modern gourmet fare of the Blaue Ente (Seefeldstrasse 223), located inside a revamped turbine hall in a redeveloped industrial area. Afterwards, head to another, edgier, regenerated neighbourhood, Zuri West, where trendy bars and clubs in former factory buildings abound. Club 0815 (Lintheschergasse 23) is a cool modern cafe and bar that hosts an electronic club at night. Also try the popular Labor-bar (Schiffbaustrasse 3), and one of the newest design creations, the Hive (Geroldstrasse 5), which retains the aura of Zurich's famous 'illegal' clubs (ad hoc bars that sprang up around the city without proper licences and are generally known by word of mouth). For retail therapy, visit the Freitag flagship store (Geroldstrasse 17) for something by the Zurich-born brothers known for making bags and accessories from recycled bicycle inner-tubes and seatbelt straps (with designs now in the New York's MoMA). And don't miss a visit to a sauna in a floating pavilion at the Seebad Enge (www.tonttu.ch), probably the coolest of Zurich's lakeside spa/cafe/lounges. Open even in winter, it offers a view of stunning mountain peaks in between a spell in the sauna and a jump into the icy lake. (It's also open for cocktails at night.) BaselThe dark-clothed duo, Herzog and de Meuron, who were responsible for the Beijing Olympic stadium and Tate Modern's transformation from derelict power station to art destination, have their headquarters in Basel. Local projects include the St Jakob 'experience park', a monumental sports stadium that was enlarged further for Euro 2008. The firm is leaving its imprimatur on other aspects of the city with its design for the Fondation Herzog, a museum of the history of photography (Oslo Strasse 8).Basel is also home to one of the world's biggest art fairs, Art Basel, dubbed 'the Olympics of the Art World', which takes place in June. For a more subdued artistic experience, visit the Fondation Beyeler, a collection of modern art housed in a building by architect Renzo Piano (Baselstrasse 101). Basel is a good base for visiting Frank Gehry's Vitra Design Museum, just over the border in Weil am Rhein, Germany (Charles-Eames-Strasse 1), and easy to reach by bus or train. The Vitra Fire Station, designed by Zaha Hadid, is also nearby. Hotels in Basel still tend toward the traditional or the very basic contemporary but the Royal (www.royal-hotel.ch) offers stylish modern rooms arranged according to the principles of feng shui.The mountainsFor centuries the Swiss Alps have been a destination for skiing and spa-ing, but gone are the days when a mountain holiday meant stomping around beneath cuckoo clocks and dried flower arrangements. The building that started Switzerland's rise to high style is the now-famous Therme Vals spa and hotel (www.therme-vals.ch), about 200km outside Zurich in a small mountain town. Vals was a homegrown enterprise that quickly gained a reputation as one of the most elegant creations of the late 20th century. Designed by Peter Zumthor, the buildings are like blocks of sculpture in grey-green quartzite stone set in glorious alpine countryside. The grand spaces are beautifully spare, with not an unnecessary ornament in sight, just stone, water and the occasional piece of glass . A more vibrant atmosphere abounds elsewhere: even the stalwart village of Zermatt has modern boutique hotels and a rousing nightlife. A new four-star hotel, the Matterhorn Focus (www.matterhorn-focus.ch) opened in June and will see its first winter guests this year. Its modern angular form hugs the hillside so that the guest rooms, with wide glass walls, have unimpeded views of the Matterhorn. While the glamour pistes of Gstaad and St Moritz still crawl with fashionistas as well as families, other somewhat less familiar spots like Verbier, with its sleek Neva\u00ef hotel (www.nevai.ch), and Arosa with the newly renovated Tschuggen Grand (www.tschuggen.ch), are attracting a new wave of style devotees. The Tschuggen features a brand new spa designed by Mario Botta and is marked out by its distinctive triangular glass dormer windows. It is now open during the summer months to host growing numbers of people coming for cycling and walking holidays.", "tags": ["Travel Awards 2008", "Switzerland holidays", "Cultural trips", "Zurich holidays", "Spa breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Art and design", "Culture", "Short breaks"], "title": "Switzerland: More than clocks and chocs"},{"date": "2008-12-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The writer Michael Robbins had a clear view about the joys of travelling by train. \"The railway etches in fresh detail to the scene,\" he noted in his 1962 classic The Railway Age. \"It rarely jars and it usually pleases.\" It is, quite simply, the best way to travel: far superior to cramped aircraft or to coaches that twist round narrow continental roads. A train is a calm, contemplative, relaxing - and occasionally romantic - way to begin a holiday.It does have drawbacks, of course. It still takes time to take a train to distant parts, particularly ski resorts. Even Alpine villages relatively close to Britain require a day's travelling, despite the introduction of Eurostar services. Such journey times can seriously diminish a train's allure.But bit by bit, things are getting better - a new line here, a high-speed link there. And last year one of the most dramatic improvements was made by the Swiss, who completed construction of one of Europe's most ambitious railway projects: the 21-mile L\u00f6tschberg Base Tunnel between Bern and Visp.At a cost of \u00a32.5bn, the L\u00f6tschberg is the longest land tunnel in the world and replaces a slower underground rail line. It now sweeps passengers deep below the Alps on journeys between northern and southern Switzerland. It is a major transport boost for the Swiss, but it is also a boon for foreign skiers heading for Switzerland's key resorts direct from the country's main airports at Bern and Zurich. The new tunnel slashes one hour five minutes from the journey, and means you can reach Zermatt, Saas Fee and other major resorts in half the time an airport coach would take - and in style. I recently tested the new tunnel, which opened last year, when I travelled from Zurich airport station on a train, to Visp and then on to Zermatt. The carriages were clean, uncrowded and had two storeys. My daughter Anna and I lounged on the upper deck and watched the Swiss countryside sweep past as we headed west to Bern and from there southwards towards Visp. At L\u00f6tschberg, our train plunged under the mountain at 125mph. More than 16 million tonnes of rock were cleared to construct the tunnel. The Swiss have even put the rail tracks on rubber shoes to absorb vibrations. I checked my mobile phone as we hurtled under the Alps and there was, of course, a signal. Needless to say, after emerging from the tunnel, we swept into Visp exactly on time.From Visp, the train climbs up though the snowline, through tiny villages, chalets and white frozen fields. For this section, it is worth paying extra to sit in the observation carriage so you can get a proper look at the white crags towering over the track. And if you feel like it, you can keep on travelling by rail when you reach Zermatt. At the town's station, the Gornergrat train will take you on the final link of your journey to the Gifthittli ski slopes, an ascent from 1,620m to 3,090m. The trains are heated, regular and offer stunning panoramas as you climb through pine and larch forest and then out on to the glistening Gornergrat ridge, with its fine long runs back down to Riffelalp and Zermatt.The line is Europe's highest open-air cogwheel rail line and has been carrying skiers to the Gifthittli pistes for more than a century, a reminder of the enduring attraction of Zermatt which this year marked its 170th anniversary as a tourist destination. In 1838, a local surgeon opened a guesthouse that could accommodate three people - and it flourished. Tourists came for the mountaineering and later for the skiing. Today, the resort can accommodate 14,000 visitors in 112 hotels and 2,000 holiday apartments, though you can still get a feel of what the old Zermatt must have been like from the old black-beamed barns that stand beside the town's swish restaurants and shops.Over the decades, Zermatt's fortunes have fluctuated. On a previous visit, more than 10 years ago, it was looking a little ragged. Its lifts were cramped and the towbars were ageing. Since then the resort has had a facelift: sumptuous new lifts have been installed; the Klein Matterhorn and Gornergrat pistes are now linked by cable cars; and large electronic display boards providing information about pistes and lifts have been put up at important points. The town still strains to cope with the swathes of skiers who flock here, but just about manages. There are queues on popular lifts at weekends but nothing too extreme. In any case, this is not a resort to take in at a rush. It is one to savour and there is a plethora of good restaurants on the slopes to help you do that. In Zermatt you can eat well in just about every cuisine you care to contemplate. We chose the Zur Alten M\u00fchle for our blow-out night and did well on its seafood starters, steaks and frites. Zermatt - unlike many other Swiss resorts - is also well-supplied with nightclubs, though we confined our apr\u00e8s-ski activities to the Antares Bar, where I discovered Anna had developed a staggering capacity for gin and tonic.For all its glamour, Zermatt would be nothing without the Matterhorn, however. Its enormous, chiselled pyramid towers over its landscape and gives the place a resonance possessed by no other ski resort. Our hotel, the Bijou, had a breakfast bar in its conservatory and we sat mesmerised by the great peak glistening in the sun every morning. It was a perfect start to the day.As for our return journey, that proved to be as relaxing and efficient as our outward trip. Certainly it beats a coach transfer hands down. Indeed, the next time we come to Zermatt, Anna and I have decided we will do the trip properly and go all the way by rail. Eurostar trains leave St Pancras at 7.20am and 8.40am and will get you into Zermatt, via Paris and Lausanne, by 8.14pm and 9.14pm respectively that day. Prices start at around \u00a3160 return. Michael Robbins would certainly have approved.Robin McKie travelled with Swiss International Air Lines (0845 601 0956; swiss.com) which flies from London, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich, Geneva and Basel from \u00a369 return. A \u00a367 Swiss Transfer Ticket allows a return rail transfer from Swiss airports to resorts, but must be bought in the UK from the Switzerland Travel Centre on 00 800 100 200 30 or at myswitzerland.com/rail. Under-16s travel free, with a paying adult. The Bijou Hotel (00 41 27 966 5151; hotel-bijou.ch) offers doubles from CHF130 (\u00a376).", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Switzerland: Express train route to the Zermatt slopes"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A 23-year-old who played rugby for England as a teenager has committed suicide in a Swiss euthanasia clinic after having become paralysed from the chest down in a training accident. Police are investigating.Nuneaton rugby club hooker Daniel James felt his body had become a \"prison\" and lived in \"fear and loathing\" of his daily life, his parents said last night, having accompanied him to Switzerland from their home in Sinton Green, near Worcester. He had attempted to kill himself several times since March 2007 when a scrum had collapsed on him and dislocated his neck vertebrae, trapping his spinal cord and rendering him immediately tetraplegic.West Mercia Police have begun an investigation into his assisted suicide, which took place on September 12. Details were made public yesterday when police published a statement relating to an inquest in progress. Assisted suicide is illegal in the UK, and family or friends who help face up to 14 years in jail. Officers have questioned a man and a women in the case and are preparing to submit a report to the Crown Prosecution Service.James' parents, Mark and Julie, said last night that their son had been \"an intelligent young man of sound mind\" and \"not prepared to live what he felt was a second-class existence\".He is one of the youngest Britons to have travelled abroad for assisted suicide. Earlier this month, Dignitas, the centre for assisted dying in Zurich, said that 100 Britons have travelled to Switzerland to make use of its more liberal laws. It is thought James attended a clinic in Berne.James was a talented player who seemed destined for a professional career. He played for England at under-16 level and went on to play for Loughborough University, where he was an engineering undergraduate. The training accident happened four days after he helped England Students beat a France side in Oxford.In a training session for forwards, he was practising a scrum when the pack came crashing down. Under their weight, he dislocated bones in his neck and trapped the spinal cord.In the following weeks he had several operations and spent eight months in rehabilitation, including a stay at Stoke Mandeville hospital, before returning home; he only ever regained a small amount of use in his fingers. Early last month he travelled to Switzerland. His funeral took place in the UK on October 1.\"His death was an extremely sad loss for his family, friends and all those that cared for him, but no doubt a welcome relief from the prison he felt his body had become and the day to day fear and loathing of his living existence,\" the James family solicitors said last night. \"This is the last way that the family wanted Dan's life to end, but he was, as those who know him are aware, an intelligent, strong-willed, and some say determined young man.\" Yesterday the Spinal Injuries Association expressed shock. \"When someone has an injury like this, you think its the end of the world as life is going to change for ever,\" said Daniel Burden, head of public affairs. \"But our mantra is that life need not end if you are paralysed. We know of people with similar or worse injuries than Dan who have lived fulfilling lives.\"The case comes as Debbie Purdy, 45, who has primary progressive multiple sclerosis, awaits a high court judgement seeking clarification of the legal status of family and friends who accompany people who commit assisted suicide. Her action is being supported by Dignity in Dying, which campaigns for a law change to allow terminally ill and mentally competent patients to choose assisted death in the UK. James, who was not terminally ill, would not have been eligible under any such alteration of the law. Prior to his death, James's uncle, Mark Roebuck, who started The Dan James Trust which raised nearly \u00a325,000 for spinal research, paid tribute to his nephew.\"On Monday March 12 2007 Dan was just like thousands of 23-year-olds, full of life, hope, excitement and dreams. Whatever he chose to do, he would have done it with the good humour and lovely nature that made him a lovable young man.\"The message boards on Nuneaton rugby club's website carried tributes yesterday. \"This is really sad and tragic news, and it makes all the silly arguments with the rugby and football club very trivial and unimportant,\" said Nutty Nun. \"My thoughts, sympathy and prayers are with Dan's family. RIP Dan.\"Although suicide is no longer a crime in England and Wales, it is still an offence under the Suicide Act 1961 to \"aid, counsel or procure the suicide of another\"; the penalty is up to 14 years' imprisonment, and there have been 12 prosecutions since 2005.The only jurisdictions where assisted suicide is not illegal are Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the state of Oregon in the US. Although Swiss law does not specifically permit assisted suicide or provide any details about how it can be done legally, it does not prohibit it either. Several clinics have been established, providing facilities for terminally ill people to commit suicide, including Dignitas in Berne, the only clinic which offers its services to people not living in Switzerland. Since it opened in 1998 it has helped 868 people to end their lives, 100 of them from the UK.Dignitas's motto is \"to live with dignity - to die with dignity\". It offers a service to the terminally ill and their families including accommodation, access to doctors and a dose of a drug causing a deep coma and painless death. However, anyone who accompanies a relative to Dignitas risks prosecution on their return for assisting suicide contrary to English law.Afua Hirsch", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "'He wasn't prepared for a second-class life': why injured rugby star went to Switzerland to die"},{"date": "2008-12-09T14:24:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "No charges are to be brought against the family of a paralysed rugby player for helping him travel to Switzerland to end his life, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) ruled today. Daniel James, 23, died at a clinic run by the Dignitas organisation on September 12, more than a year after a rugby accident left him paralysed from the chest down. The CPS considered bringing charges under the Suicide Act against his parents, Mark and Julie James, from Sinton Green, Worcester. But the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, said today such a prosecution would not be in the public interest and no further action would be taken against the couple.Mr Starmer said that while public interest factors to support a prosecution did exist, among them the seriousness of the case, these were outweighed by arguments against. \"This is a tragic case, involving as it does the death of a young man in difficult and unique circumstances,\" he said. \"In reaching my decision I have given careful consideration to the code for crown prosecutors. \"In particular, but not exclusively, I would point to the fact that Daniel, as a fiercely independent young man, was not influenced by his parents to take his own life, and the evidence indicates he did so despite their imploring him not to.\" A training ground injury in March 2007 left James paralysed from the chest down, with no independent hand or finger movement. Eight months later, his consultant said it was unlikely he would ever enjoy a significant recovery.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news"], "title": "Suicide rugby player Daniel James: CPS rules out charges"},{"date": "2008-10-08T17:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "World stockmarkets suffered another day of turmoil, the FTSE 100 slumping a further 5%, despite the Bank of England joining other world central banks today in a coordinated cut in interest rates designed to ward off the threat of global recession.The Bank, the US Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank all lopped half a point off their key interest rates in the first unscheduled rate moves since the aftermath of 9/11. Sweden, Canada and Switzerland made similar cuts. Australia reduced rates by a whole percentage point earlier this week.Expectations of coordinated action had been growing in recent days, as the global financial crisis worsened, giving rise to fears that it could tip the world economy into a deep and prolonged slump.There were sharp increases in European markets as the surprise announcements were made, but confidence quickly waned. The FTSE 100 index had plunged by as much as 360 points, or 7.8%, in early trading before rallying after the rate cuts. At 12.30pm it was slightly up but ended the day 5.2% lower, dropping 238.5 points to close at 4366.7. At 5.30pm, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had also traded to widl extremes, was down about 2.4%, 223 points lower at 9223.Threadneedle Street cut its bank rate to 4.5%, the Fed to 1.5% and the ECB to 3.75%. It marked the biggest cut by the Bank of England since November 2001, and takes rates here to their lowest for two years. The MPC has now abandoned its rate-setting meeting so there will be no announcement tomorrow.Simon Rubinsohn, chief economist at the Royal Insitution of Chartered Surveyors, said: \"The dramatic response from the authorities is an appropriate response to the chaos in financial markets over the past few weeks and the global economy's slide into recession. This should help to start the process of rebuilding confidence but we suspect that more action will be necessary over the coming months.\"Some economists have already said that the gravity of the crisis facing the British economy could see rates reduced to as low as 2.5%, which would be their lowest in over half a century.Miles Templeman, director-general of the IoD said: \"We welcome the coordinated monetary and fiscal response to the current crisis. However, we strongly believe that a further interest rate reduction of 50 basis points will be required next month, if not before.\"Inflation was yesterday's story, recession is today's story and deflation is tomorrow's risk. Interest rates are heading in one direction \u2013 down.\"The central banks made a joint statment saying: \"Inflationary pressures have started to moderate in a number of countries, partly reflecting a marked decline in energy and other commodity prices. Inflation expectations are diminishing and remain anchored to price stability. \"The recent intensification of the financial crisis has augmented the downside risks to growth and thus has diminished further the upside risks to price stability.\".The Bank of England said the monetary policy committee believed that inflation in the UK would soon peak at 5%, and then start to fall. \"Inflation is likely to rise further to above 5% in the next month or two, in large part as the full effects of already-announced increases in the price of domestic energy are felt. But inflation should then drop back, as the contribution from retail energy prices wanes, and the margin of spare capacity in the economy increases.\"The MPC said that cuts in interest rates alone \"could not be expected to resolve the current problems in financial markets\" and that they welcomed the government's plan to recapitalise the major UK banks. Separately, the AA reported that petrol prices at the pump had fallen by 10p a litre since their high in July to an average of 109.4p a litre.", "tags": ["Interest rates", "Banking", "Bank of England", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Money"], "title": "Central banks cut interest rates to buoy global economy"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for those who've never been there, Switzerland wears an aura of exquisite, if slightly boring, perfection. It is a country known mostly for mountains, chocolate, anonymous bank accounts, an exemplary public transport system and finishing schools. But even though it may not be home to cutting-edge music or avant-garde artists, it has been achieving great heights, and not just in its famously pointed topography. Over the last decade or so Switzerland has been undergoing, quietly of course, a style revolution.Some of the world's greatest architecture is now Swiss-made, and some of the world's greatest architects call Switzerland their home. The country that brought us one of the most influential architects of our times, Le Corbusier, is also the birthplace of Herzog and de Meuron (of the Tate Modern). Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is based here, and Norman Foster, who recently renovated the sprawling Dolder Grand hotel near Zurich, has set up home in a chateau outside Geneva. Boutique hotels and modern alpine spas have sprouted, and in the centres of Lucerne, Geneva, Basel and Zurich new design shops and stylish bars abound. Swiss towns still offer enough gingerbread buildings, flower baskets and cuckoo clocks to keep the fairytale alive, but the 21st-century modern movement is emerging in its Swiss perfect way and attracting a new generation of visitors.ZurichIf you really want to see the best of the new Swiss style, you have to go to Zurich, named by Wallpaper magazine as 'Europe's trendiest and most popular city'. Once known as mainly a financial centre, Zurich has experienced a creative explosion. That image got a huge boost when Google chose to establish its European engineering centre here last year, and as one Google employee put it, 'Zurich has all the sophistication of a big city without the dirt and the crime'. Now there is something for everyone: plenty of old-time charm as well as stylish new elements for the design-conscious urban nomad. Elegant traditional hotels and restaurants mix with high-style design hotels and a zingy nightlife in a city named the 'Gay Capital of Switzerland'.Many travellers' first taste of Zurich's design aesthetic starts as soon as they touch down at Zurich-Kloten airport, with its grand glass arrivals lounge and hi-tech new terminal building. Contemporary architecture groupies shouldn't miss Santiago Calatrava's Stadelhofen train station, an early example of the dramatic sweeping forms that have become his trademark in buildings like the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In Zurich you will also find Le Corbusier's last building, the Heidi Weber House in the Zurichhorn Park. Originally built as a private house, it is now an art gallery and home to the Centre Le Corbusier. In town, head for the stylish and stylishly expensive Widder (www.widderhotel.ch), a minimalist boutique hotel with furniture by Adolf Loos, Charles Eames, Le Corbusier and Josef Hoffmann. Or try the ultra-trendy Sorell Hotel Zurichberg (www.zuerichberg.ch), located slightly out of the way on a mountain slope and offering views over the city. The most talked-about hotel of recent months is the Dolder Grand (www.thedoldergrand.com) originally a turreted castle, which has had its grandeur restored and two new energy-efficient wings added along with full spa facilities. For dining it has to be the modern gourmet fare of the Blaue Ente (Seefeldstrasse 223), located inside a revamped turbine hall in a redeveloped industrial area. Afterwards, head to another, edgier, regenerated neighbourhood, Zuri West, where trendy bars and clubs in former factory buildings abound. Club 0815 (Lintheschergasse 23) is a cool modern cafe and bar that hosts an electronic club at night. Also try the popular Labor-bar (Schiffbaustrasse 3), and one of the newest design creations, the Hive (Geroldstrasse 5), which retains the aura of Zurich's famous 'illegal' clubs (ad hoc bars that sprang up around the city without proper licences and are generally known by word of mouth). For retail therapy, visit the Freitag flagship store (Geroldstrasse 17) for something by the Zurich-born brothers known for making bags and accessories from recycled bicycle inner-tubes and seatbelt straps (with designs now in the New York's MoMA). And don't miss a visit to a sauna in a floating pavilion at the Seebad Enge (www.tonttu.ch), probably the coolest of Zurich's lakeside spa/cafe/lounges. Open even in winter, it offers a view of stunning mountain peaks in between a spell in the sauna and a jump into the icy lake. (It's also open for cocktails at night.) BaselThe dark-clothed duo, Herzog and de Meuron, who were responsible for the Beijing Olympic stadium and Tate Modern's transformation from derelict power station to art destination, have their headquarters in Basel. Local projects include the St Jakob 'experience park', a monumental sports stadium that was enlarged further for Euro 2008. The firm is leaving its imprimatur on other aspects of the city with its design for the Fondation Herzog, a museum of the history of photography (Oslo Strasse 8).Basel is also home to one of the world's biggest art fairs, Art Basel, dubbed 'the Olympics of the Art World', which takes place in June. For a more subdued artistic experience, visit the Fondation Beyeler, a collection of modern art housed in a building by architect Renzo Piano (Baselstrasse 101). Basel is a good base for visiting Frank Gehry's Vitra Design Museum, just over the border in Weil am Rhein, Germany (Charles-Eames-Strasse 1), and easy to reach by bus or train. The Vitra Fire Station, designed by Zaha Hadid, is also nearby. Hotels in Basel still tend toward the traditional or the very basic contemporary but the Royal (www.royal-hotel.ch) offers stylish modern rooms arranged according to the principles of feng shui.The mountainsFor centuries the Swiss Alps have been a destination for skiing and spa-ing, but gone are the days when a mountain holiday meant stomping around beneath cuckoo clocks and dried flower arrangements. The building that started Switzerland's rise to high style is the now-famous Therme Vals spa and hotel (www.therme-vals.ch), about 200km outside Zurich in a small mountain town. Vals was a homegrown enterprise that quickly gained a reputation as one of the most elegant creations of the late 20th century. Designed by Peter Zumthor, the buildings are like blocks of sculpture in grey-green quartzite stone set in glorious alpine countryside. The grand spaces are beautifully spare, with not an unnecessary ornament in sight, just stone, water and the occasional piece of glass . A more vibrant atmosphere abounds elsewhere: even the stalwart village of Zermatt has modern boutique hotels and a rousing nightlife. A new four-star hotel, the Matterhorn Focus (www.matterhorn-focus.ch) opened in June and will see its first winter guests this year. Its modern angular form hugs the hillside so that the guest rooms, with wide glass walls, have unimpeded views of the Matterhorn. While the glamour pistes of Gstaad and St Moritz still crawl with fashionistas as well as families, other somewhat less familiar spots like Verbier, with its sleek Neva\u00ef hotel (www.nevai.ch), and Arosa with the newly renovated Tschuggen Grand (www.tschuggen.ch), are attracting a new wave of style devotees. The Tschuggen features a brand new spa designed by Mario Botta and is marked out by its distinctive triangular glass dormer windows. It is now open during the summer months to host growing numbers of people coming for cycling and walking holidays.", "tags": ["Travel Awards 2008", "Switzerland holidays", "Cultural trips", "Zurich holidays", "Spa breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Art and design", "Culture", "Short breaks"], "title": "Switzerland: More than clocks and chocs"},{"date": "2008-12-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The writer Michael Robbins had a clear view about the joys of travelling by train. \"The railway etches in fresh detail to the scene,\" he noted in his 1962 classic The Railway Age. \"It rarely jars and it usually pleases.\" It is, quite simply, the best way to travel: far superior to cramped aircraft or to coaches that twist round narrow continental roads. A train is a calm, contemplative, relaxing - and occasionally romantic - way to begin a holiday.It does have drawbacks, of course. It still takes time to take a train to distant parts, particularly ski resorts. Even Alpine villages relatively close to Britain require a day's travelling, despite the introduction of Eurostar services. Such journey times can seriously diminish a train's allure.But bit by bit, things are getting better - a new line here, a high-speed link there. And last year one of the most dramatic improvements was made by the Swiss, who completed construction of one of Europe's most ambitious railway projects: the 21-mile L\u00f6tschberg Base Tunnel between Bern and Visp.At a cost of \u00a32.5bn, the L\u00f6tschberg is the longest land tunnel in the world and replaces a slower underground rail line. It now sweeps passengers deep below the Alps on journeys between northern and southern Switzerland. It is a major transport boost for the Swiss, but it is also a boon for foreign skiers heading for Switzerland's key resorts direct from the country's main airports at Bern and Zurich. The new tunnel slashes one hour five minutes from the journey, and means you can reach Zermatt, Saas Fee and other major resorts in half the time an airport coach would take - and in style. I recently tested the new tunnel, which opened last year, when I travelled from Zurich airport station on a train, to Visp and then on to Zermatt. The carriages were clean, uncrowded and had two storeys. My daughter Anna and I lounged on the upper deck and watched the Swiss countryside sweep past as we headed west to Bern and from there southwards towards Visp. At L\u00f6tschberg, our train plunged under the mountain at 125mph. More than 16 million tonnes of rock were cleared to construct the tunnel. The Swiss have even put the rail tracks on rubber shoes to absorb vibrations. I checked my mobile phone as we hurtled under the Alps and there was, of course, a signal. Needless to say, after emerging from the tunnel, we swept into Visp exactly on time.From Visp, the train climbs up though the snowline, through tiny villages, chalets and white frozen fields. For this section, it is worth paying extra to sit in the observation carriage so you can get a proper look at the white crags towering over the track. And if you feel like it, you can keep on travelling by rail when you reach Zermatt. At the town's station, the Gornergrat train will take you on the final link of your journey to the Gifthittli ski slopes, an ascent from 1,620m to 3,090m. The trains are heated, regular and offer stunning panoramas as you climb through pine and larch forest and then out on to the glistening Gornergrat ridge, with its fine long runs back down to Riffelalp and Zermatt.The line is Europe's highest open-air cogwheel rail line and has been carrying skiers to the Gifthittli pistes for more than a century, a reminder of the enduring attraction of Zermatt which this year marked its 170th anniversary as a tourist destination. In 1838, a local surgeon opened a guesthouse that could accommodate three people - and it flourished. Tourists came for the mountaineering and later for the skiing. Today, the resort can accommodate 14,000 visitors in 112 hotels and 2,000 holiday apartments, though you can still get a feel of what the old Zermatt must have been like from the old black-beamed barns that stand beside the town's swish restaurants and shops.Over the decades, Zermatt's fortunes have fluctuated. On a previous visit, more than 10 years ago, it was looking a little ragged. Its lifts were cramped and the towbars were ageing. Since then the resort has had a facelift: sumptuous new lifts have been installed; the Klein Matterhorn and Gornergrat pistes are now linked by cable cars; and large electronic display boards providing information about pistes and lifts have been put up at important points. The town still strains to cope with the swathes of skiers who flock here, but just about manages. There are queues on popular lifts at weekends but nothing too extreme. In any case, this is not a resort to take in at a rush. It is one to savour and there is a plethora of good restaurants on the slopes to help you do that. In Zermatt you can eat well in just about every cuisine you care to contemplate. We chose the Zur Alten M\u00fchle for our blow-out night and did well on its seafood starters, steaks and frites. Zermatt - unlike many other Swiss resorts - is also well-supplied with nightclubs, though we confined our apr\u00e8s-ski activities to the Antares Bar, where I discovered Anna had developed a staggering capacity for gin and tonic.For all its glamour, Zermatt would be nothing without the Matterhorn, however. Its enormous, chiselled pyramid towers over its landscape and gives the place a resonance possessed by no other ski resort. Our hotel, the Bijou, had a breakfast bar in its conservatory and we sat mesmerised by the great peak glistening in the sun every morning. It was a perfect start to the day.As for our return journey, that proved to be as relaxing and efficient as our outward trip. Certainly it beats a coach transfer hands down. Indeed, the next time we come to Zermatt, Anna and I have decided we will do the trip properly and go all the way by rail. Eurostar trains leave St Pancras at 7.20am and 8.40am and will get you into Zermatt, via Paris and Lausanne, by 8.14pm and 9.14pm respectively that day. Prices start at around \u00a3160 return. Michael Robbins would certainly have approved.Robin McKie travelled with Swiss International Air Lines (0845 601 0956; swiss.com) which flies from London, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich, Geneva and Basel from \u00a369 return. A \u00a367 Swiss Transfer Ticket allows a return rail transfer from Swiss airports to resorts, but must be bought in the UK from the Switzerland Travel Centre on 00 800 100 200 30 or at myswitzerland.com/rail. Under-16s travel free, with a paying adult. The Bijou Hotel (00 41 27 966 5151; hotel-bijou.ch) offers doubles from CHF130 (\u00a376).", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Switzerland: Express train route to the Zermatt slopes"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A 23-year-old who played rugby for England as a teenager has committed suicide in a Swiss euthanasia clinic after having become paralysed from the chest down in a training accident. Police are investigating.Nuneaton rugby club hooker Daniel James felt his body had become a \"prison\" and lived in \"fear and loathing\" of his daily life, his parents said last night, having accompanied him to Switzerland from their home in Sinton Green, near Worcester. He had attempted to kill himself several times since March 2007 when a scrum had collapsed on him and dislocated his neck vertebrae, trapping his spinal cord and rendering him immediately tetraplegic.West Mercia Police have begun an investigation into his assisted suicide, which took place on September 12. Details were made public yesterday when police published a statement relating to an inquest in progress. Assisted suicide is illegal in the UK, and family or friends who help face up to 14 years in jail. Officers have questioned a man and a women in the case and are preparing to submit a report to the Crown Prosecution Service.James' parents, Mark and Julie, said last night that their son had been \"an intelligent young man of sound mind\" and \"not prepared to live what he felt was a second-class existence\".He is one of the youngest Britons to have travelled abroad for assisted suicide. Earlier this month, Dignitas, the centre for assisted dying in Zurich, said that 100 Britons have travelled to Switzerland to make use of its more liberal laws. It is thought James attended a clinic in Berne.James was a talented player who seemed destined for a professional career. He played for England at under-16 level and went on to play for Loughborough University, where he was an engineering undergraduate. The training accident happened four days after he helped England Students beat a France side in Oxford.In a training session for forwards, he was practising a scrum when the pack came crashing down. Under their weight, he dislocated bones in his neck and trapped the spinal cord.In the following weeks he had several operations and spent eight months in rehabilitation, including a stay at Stoke Mandeville hospital, before returning home; he only ever regained a small amount of use in his fingers. Early last month he travelled to Switzerland. His funeral took place in the UK on October 1.\"His death was an extremely sad loss for his family, friends and all those that cared for him, but no doubt a welcome relief from the prison he felt his body had become and the day to day fear and loathing of his living existence,\" the James family solicitors said last night. \"This is the last way that the family wanted Dan's life to end, but he was, as those who know him are aware, an intelligent, strong-willed, and some say determined young man.\" Yesterday the Spinal Injuries Association expressed shock. \"When someone has an injury like this, you think its the end of the world as life is going to change for ever,\" said Daniel Burden, head of public affairs. \"But our mantra is that life need not end if you are paralysed. We know of people with similar or worse injuries than Dan who have lived fulfilling lives.\"The case comes as Debbie Purdy, 45, who has primary progressive multiple sclerosis, awaits a high court judgement seeking clarification of the legal status of family and friends who accompany people who commit assisted suicide. Her action is being supported by Dignity in Dying, which campaigns for a law change to allow terminally ill and mentally competent patients to choose assisted death in the UK. James, who was not terminally ill, would not have been eligible under any such alteration of the law. Prior to his death, James's uncle, Mark Roebuck, who started The Dan James Trust which raised nearly \u00a325,000 for spinal research, paid tribute to his nephew.\"On Monday March 12 2007 Dan was just like thousands of 23-year-olds, full of life, hope, excitement and dreams. Whatever he chose to do, he would have done it with the good humour and lovely nature that made him a lovable young man.\"The message boards on Nuneaton rugby club's website carried tributes yesterday. \"This is really sad and tragic news, and it makes all the silly arguments with the rugby and football club very trivial and unimportant,\" said Nutty Nun. \"My thoughts, sympathy and prayers are with Dan's family. RIP Dan.\"Although suicide is no longer a crime in England and Wales, it is still an offence under the Suicide Act 1961 to \"aid, counsel or procure the suicide of another\"; the penalty is up to 14 years' imprisonment, and there have been 12 prosecutions since 2005.The only jurisdictions where assisted suicide is not illegal are Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the state of Oregon in the US. Although Swiss law does not specifically permit assisted suicide or provide any details about how it can be done legally, it does not prohibit it either. Several clinics have been established, providing facilities for terminally ill people to commit suicide, including Dignitas in Berne, the only clinic which offers its services to people not living in Switzerland. Since it opened in 1998 it has helped 868 people to end their lives, 100 of them from the UK.Dignitas's motto is \"to live with dignity - to die with dignity\". It offers a service to the terminally ill and their families including accommodation, access to doctors and a dose of a drug causing a deep coma and painless death. However, anyone who accompanies a relative to Dignitas risks prosecution on their return for assisting suicide contrary to English law.Afua Hirsch", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "'He wasn't prepared for a second-class life': why injured rugby star went to Switzerland to die"},{"date": "2008-12-09T14:24:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "No charges are to be brought against the family of a paralysed rugby player for helping him travel to Switzerland to end his life, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) ruled today. Daniel James, 23, died at a clinic run by the Dignitas organisation on September 12, more than a year after a rugby accident left him paralysed from the chest down. The CPS considered bringing charges under the Suicide Act against his parents, Mark and Julie James, from Sinton Green, Worcester. But the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, said today such a prosecution would not be in the public interest and no further action would be taken against the couple.Mr Starmer said that while public interest factors to support a prosecution did exist, among them the seriousness of the case, these were outweighed by arguments against. \"This is a tragic case, involving as it does the death of a young man in difficult and unique circumstances,\" he said. \"In reaching my decision I have given careful consideration to the code for crown prosecutors. \"In particular, but not exclusively, I would point to the fact that Daniel, as a fiercely independent young man, was not influenced by his parents to take his own life, and the evidence indicates he did so despite their imploring him not to.\" A training ground injury in March 2007 left James paralysed from the chest down, with no independent hand or finger movement. Eight months later, his consultant said it was unlikely he would ever enjoy a significant recovery.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news"], "title": "Suicide rugby player Daniel James: CPS rules out charges"},{"date": "2008-10-08T17:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "World stockmarkets suffered another day of turmoil, the FTSE 100 slumping a further 5%, despite the Bank of England joining other world central banks today in a coordinated cut in interest rates designed to ward off the threat of global recession.The Bank, the US Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank all lopped half a point off their key interest rates in the first unscheduled rate moves since the aftermath of 9/11. Sweden, Canada and Switzerland made similar cuts. Australia reduced rates by a whole percentage point earlier this week.Expectations of coordinated action had been growing in recent days, as the global financial crisis worsened, giving rise to fears that it could tip the world economy into a deep and prolonged slump.There were sharp increases in European markets as the surprise announcements were made, but confidence quickly waned. The FTSE 100 index had plunged by as much as 360 points, or 7.8%, in early trading before rallying after the rate cuts. At 12.30pm it was slightly up but ended the day 5.2% lower, dropping 238.5 points to close at 4366.7. At 5.30pm, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had also traded to widl extremes, was down about 2.4%, 223 points lower at 9223.Threadneedle Street cut its bank rate to 4.5%, the Fed to 1.5% and the ECB to 3.75%. It marked the biggest cut by the Bank of England since November 2001, and takes rates here to their lowest for two years. The MPC has now abandoned its rate-setting meeting so there will be no announcement tomorrow.Simon Rubinsohn, chief economist at the Royal Insitution of Chartered Surveyors, said: \"The dramatic response from the authorities is an appropriate response to the chaos in financial markets over the past few weeks and the global economy's slide into recession. This should help to start the process of rebuilding confidence but we suspect that more action will be necessary over the coming months.\"Some economists have already said that the gravity of the crisis facing the British economy could see rates reduced to as low as 2.5%, which would be their lowest in over half a century.Miles Templeman, director-general of the IoD said: \"We welcome the coordinated monetary and fiscal response to the current crisis. However, we strongly believe that a further interest rate reduction of 50 basis points will be required next month, if not before.\"Inflation was yesterday's story, recession is today's story and deflation is tomorrow's risk. Interest rates are heading in one direction \u2013 down.\"The central banks made a joint statment saying: \"Inflationary pressures have started to moderate in a number of countries, partly reflecting a marked decline in energy and other commodity prices. Inflation expectations are diminishing and remain anchored to price stability. \"The recent intensification of the financial crisis has augmented the downside risks to growth and thus has diminished further the upside risks to price stability.\".The Bank of England said the monetary policy committee believed that inflation in the UK would soon peak at 5%, and then start to fall. \"Inflation is likely to rise further to above 5% in the next month or two, in large part as the full effects of already-announced increases in the price of domestic energy are felt. But inflation should then drop back, as the contribution from retail energy prices wanes, and the margin of spare capacity in the economy increases.\"The MPC said that cuts in interest rates alone \"could not be expected to resolve the current problems in financial markets\" and that they welcomed the government's plan to recapitalise the major UK banks. Separately, the AA reported that petrol prices at the pump had fallen by 10p a litre since their high in July to an average of 109.4p a litre.", "tags": ["Interest rates", "Banking", "Bank of England", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Money"], "title": "Central banks cut interest rates to buoy global economy"},{"date": "2008-12-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A pioneering Swiss programme to give addicts government authorised heroin was overwhelmingly approved yesterday by voters who simultaneously rejected the decriminalisation of marijuana.Sixty-eight per cent of voters approved making the heroin programme permanent. It has been credited with reducing crime and improving the health and daily lives of addicts since it began 14 years ago.Only 36.8% of voters favoured the marijuana initiative.Olivier Borer, 35, a musician from the northern town of Solothurn, said he welcomed the outcome. \"I think it's very important to help these people, but not to facilitate the using of drugs. You can just see in the Netherlands how it's going. People just go there to smoke,\" Borer said.Parliament approved the heroin measure in a revision of Switzerland's narcotics law in March, but conservatives challenged the decision and forced a national referendum under Switzerland's system of direct democracy.The heroin programme has helped eliminate the scenes of large groups of drug users shooting up openly in parks that marred Swiss cities in the 1980s and 1990s, supporters say.The United States and the UN narcotics board have criticised the programme as potentially fuelling drug abuse, but other governments have started or are considering their own schemes modelled on the system.The marijuana issue was based on a separate citizens' initiative to decriminalise the consumption of marijuana and growing the plant for personal use.Jo Lang, a Green party member of parliament from the city of Zug, said he was disappointed in the failure of the marijuana measure because it meant 600,000 people in Switzerland would be treated as criminals because they used cannabis.\"People have died from alcohol and heroin, but not from cannabis,\" Lang said.The government, which opposes the marijuana proposal, said it feared that liberalising marijuana could cause problems with neighbouring countries. \"This could lead to a situation where you have some sort of cannabis tourism in Switzerland because something that is illegal in the EU would be legal in Switzerland,\" a government spokesman, Oswald Sigg, said.The heroin program is offered in 23 discreet centres across Switzerland, which offer support to nearly 1,300 addicts who have not been helped by other therapies. Under supervision, they inject doses measured to satisfy a craving but not enough to cause a high.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Drugs", "Science", "Europe"], "title": "Swiss approve heroin scheme but vote down marijuana law"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for those who've never been there, Switzerland wears an aura of exquisite, if slightly boring, perfection. It is a country known mostly for mountains, chocolate, anonymous bank accounts, an exemplary public transport system and finishing schools. But even though it may not be home to cutting-edge music or avant-garde artists, it has been achieving great heights, and not just in its famously pointed topography. Over the last decade or so Switzerland has been undergoing, quietly of course, a style revolution.Some of the world's greatest architecture is now Swiss-made, and some of the world's greatest architects call Switzerland their home. The country that brought us one of the most influential architects of our times, Le Corbusier, is also the birthplace of Herzog and de Meuron (of the Tate Modern). Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is based here, and Norman Foster, who recently renovated the sprawling Dolder Grand hotel near Zurich, has set up home in a chateau outside Geneva. Boutique hotels and modern alpine spas have sprouted, and in the centres of Lucerne, Geneva, Basel and Zurich new design shops and stylish bars abound. Swiss towns still offer enough gingerbread buildings, flower baskets and cuckoo clocks to keep the fairytale alive, but the 21st-century modern movement is emerging in its Swiss perfect way and attracting a new generation of visitors.ZurichIf you really want to see the best of the new Swiss style, you have to go to Zurich, named by Wallpaper magazine as 'Europe's trendiest and most popular city'. Once known as mainly a financial centre, Zurich has experienced a creative explosion. That image got a huge boost when Google chose to establish its European engineering centre here last year, and as one Google employee put it, 'Zurich has all the sophistication of a big city without the dirt and the crime'. Now there is something for everyone: plenty of old-time charm as well as stylish new elements for the design-conscious urban nomad. Elegant traditional hotels and restaurants mix with high-style design hotels and a zingy nightlife in a city named the 'Gay Capital of Switzerland'.Many travellers' first taste of Zurich's design aesthetic starts as soon as they touch down at Zurich-Kloten airport, with its grand glass arrivals lounge and hi-tech new terminal building. Contemporary architecture groupies shouldn't miss Santiago Calatrava's Stadelhofen train station, an early example of the dramatic sweeping forms that have become his trademark in buildings like the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In Zurich you will also find Le Corbusier's last building, the Heidi Weber House in the Zurichhorn Park. Originally built as a private house, it is now an art gallery and home to the Centre Le Corbusier. In town, head for the stylish and stylishly expensive Widder (www.widderhotel.ch), a minimalist boutique hotel with furniture by Adolf Loos, Charles Eames, Le Corbusier and Josef Hoffmann. Or try the ultra-trendy Sorell Hotel Zurichberg (www.zuerichberg.ch), located slightly out of the way on a mountain slope and offering views over the city. The most talked-about hotel of recent months is the Dolder Grand (www.thedoldergrand.com) originally a turreted castle, which has had its grandeur restored and two new energy-efficient wings added along with full spa facilities. For dining it has to be the modern gourmet fare of the Blaue Ente (Seefeldstrasse 223), located inside a revamped turbine hall in a redeveloped industrial area. Afterwards, head to another, edgier, regenerated neighbourhood, Zuri West, where trendy bars and clubs in former factory buildings abound. Club 0815 (Lintheschergasse 23) is a cool modern cafe and bar that hosts an electronic club at night. Also try the popular Labor-bar (Schiffbaustrasse 3), and one of the newest design creations, the Hive (Geroldstrasse 5), which retains the aura of Zurich's famous 'illegal' clubs (ad hoc bars that sprang up around the city without proper licences and are generally known by word of mouth). For retail therapy, visit the Freitag flagship store (Geroldstrasse 17) for something by the Zurich-born brothers known for making bags and accessories from recycled bicycle inner-tubes and seatbelt straps (with designs now in the New York's MoMA). And don't miss a visit to a sauna in a floating pavilion at the Seebad Enge (www.tonttu.ch), probably the coolest of Zurich's lakeside spa/cafe/lounges. Open even in winter, it offers a view of stunning mountain peaks in between a spell in the sauna and a jump into the icy lake. (It's also open for cocktails at night.) BaselThe dark-clothed duo, Herzog and de Meuron, who were responsible for the Beijing Olympic stadium and Tate Modern's transformation from derelict power station to art destination, have their headquarters in Basel. Local projects include the St Jakob 'experience park', a monumental sports stadium that was enlarged further for Euro 2008. The firm is leaving its imprimatur on other aspects of the city with its design for the Fondation Herzog, a museum of the history of photography (Oslo Strasse 8).Basel is also home to one of the world's biggest art fairs, Art Basel, dubbed 'the Olympics of the Art World', which takes place in June. For a more subdued artistic experience, visit the Fondation Beyeler, a collection of modern art housed in a building by architect Renzo Piano (Baselstrasse 101). Basel is a good base for visiting Frank Gehry's Vitra Design Museum, just over the border in Weil am Rhein, Germany (Charles-Eames-Strasse 1), and easy to reach by bus or train. The Vitra Fire Station, designed by Zaha Hadid, is also nearby. Hotels in Basel still tend toward the traditional or the very basic contemporary but the Royal (www.royal-hotel.ch) offers stylish modern rooms arranged according to the principles of feng shui.The mountainsFor centuries the Swiss Alps have been a destination for skiing and spa-ing, but gone are the days when a mountain holiday meant stomping around beneath cuckoo clocks and dried flower arrangements. The building that started Switzerland's rise to high style is the now-famous Therme Vals spa and hotel (www.therme-vals.ch), about 200km outside Zurich in a small mountain town. Vals was a homegrown enterprise that quickly gained a reputation as one of the most elegant creations of the late 20th century. Designed by Peter Zumthor, the buildings are like blocks of sculpture in grey-green quartzite stone set in glorious alpine countryside. The grand spaces are beautifully spare, with not an unnecessary ornament in sight, just stone, water and the occasional piece of glass . A more vibrant atmosphere abounds elsewhere: even the stalwart village of Zermatt has modern boutique hotels and a rousing nightlife. A new four-star hotel, the Matterhorn Focus (www.matterhorn-focus.ch) opened in June and will see its first winter guests this year. Its modern angular form hugs the hillside so that the guest rooms, with wide glass walls, have unimpeded views of the Matterhorn. While the glamour pistes of Gstaad and St Moritz still crawl with fashionistas as well as families, other somewhat less familiar spots like Verbier, with its sleek Neva\u00ef hotel (www.nevai.ch), and Arosa with the newly renovated Tschuggen Grand (www.tschuggen.ch), are attracting a new wave of style devotees. The Tschuggen features a brand new spa designed by Mario Botta and is marked out by its distinctive triangular glass dormer windows. It is now open during the summer months to host growing numbers of people coming for cycling and walking holidays.", "tags": ["Travel Awards 2008", "Switzerland holidays", "Cultural trips", "Zurich holidays", "Spa breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Art and design", "Culture", "Short breaks"], "title": "Switzerland: More than clocks and chocs"},{"date": "2008-12-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The writer Michael Robbins had a clear view about the joys of travelling by train. \"The railway etches in fresh detail to the scene,\" he noted in his 1962 classic The Railway Age. \"It rarely jars and it usually pleases.\" It is, quite simply, the best way to travel: far superior to cramped aircraft or to coaches that twist round narrow continental roads. A train is a calm, contemplative, relaxing - and occasionally romantic - way to begin a holiday.It does have drawbacks, of course. It still takes time to take a train to distant parts, particularly ski resorts. Even Alpine villages relatively close to Britain require a day's travelling, despite the introduction of Eurostar services. Such journey times can seriously diminish a train's allure.But bit by bit, things are getting better - a new line here, a high-speed link there. And last year one of the most dramatic improvements was made by the Swiss, who completed construction of one of Europe's most ambitious railway projects: the 21-mile L\u00f6tschberg Base Tunnel between Bern and Visp.At a cost of \u00a32.5bn, the L\u00f6tschberg is the longest land tunnel in the world and replaces a slower underground rail line. It now sweeps passengers deep below the Alps on journeys between northern and southern Switzerland. It is a major transport boost for the Swiss, but it is also a boon for foreign skiers heading for Switzerland's key resorts direct from the country's main airports at Bern and Zurich. The new tunnel slashes one hour five minutes from the journey, and means you can reach Zermatt, Saas Fee and other major resorts in half the time an airport coach would take - and in style. I recently tested the new tunnel, which opened last year, when I travelled from Zurich airport station on a train, to Visp and then on to Zermatt. The carriages were clean, uncrowded and had two storeys. My daughter Anna and I lounged on the upper deck and watched the Swiss countryside sweep past as we headed west to Bern and from there southwards towards Visp. At L\u00f6tschberg, our train plunged under the mountain at 125mph. More than 16 million tonnes of rock were cleared to construct the tunnel. The Swiss have even put the rail tracks on rubber shoes to absorb vibrations. I checked my mobile phone as we hurtled under the Alps and there was, of course, a signal. Needless to say, after emerging from the tunnel, we swept into Visp exactly on time.From Visp, the train climbs up though the snowline, through tiny villages, chalets and white frozen fields. For this section, it is worth paying extra to sit in the observation carriage so you can get a proper look at the white crags towering over the track. And if you feel like it, you can keep on travelling by rail when you reach Zermatt. At the town's station, the Gornergrat train will take you on the final link of your journey to the Gifthittli ski slopes, an ascent from 1,620m to 3,090m. The trains are heated, regular and offer stunning panoramas as you climb through pine and larch forest and then out on to the glistening Gornergrat ridge, with its fine long runs back down to Riffelalp and Zermatt.The line is Europe's highest open-air cogwheel rail line and has been carrying skiers to the Gifthittli pistes for more than a century, a reminder of the enduring attraction of Zermatt which this year marked its 170th anniversary as a tourist destination. In 1838, a local surgeon opened a guesthouse that could accommodate three people - and it flourished. Tourists came for the mountaineering and later for the skiing. Today, the resort can accommodate 14,000 visitors in 112 hotels and 2,000 holiday apartments, though you can still get a feel of what the old Zermatt must have been like from the old black-beamed barns that stand beside the town's swish restaurants and shops.Over the decades, Zermatt's fortunes have fluctuated. On a previous visit, more than 10 years ago, it was looking a little ragged. Its lifts were cramped and the towbars were ageing. Since then the resort has had a facelift: sumptuous new lifts have been installed; the Klein Matterhorn and Gornergrat pistes are now linked by cable cars; and large electronic display boards providing information about pistes and lifts have been put up at important points. The town still strains to cope with the swathes of skiers who flock here, but just about manages. There are queues on popular lifts at weekends but nothing too extreme. In any case, this is not a resort to take in at a rush. It is one to savour and there is a plethora of good restaurants on the slopes to help you do that. In Zermatt you can eat well in just about every cuisine you care to contemplate. We chose the Zur Alten M\u00fchle for our blow-out night and did well on its seafood starters, steaks and frites. Zermatt - unlike many other Swiss resorts - is also well-supplied with nightclubs, though we confined our apr\u00e8s-ski activities to the Antares Bar, where I discovered Anna had developed a staggering capacity for gin and tonic.For all its glamour, Zermatt would be nothing without the Matterhorn, however. Its enormous, chiselled pyramid towers over its landscape and gives the place a resonance possessed by no other ski resort. Our hotel, the Bijou, had a breakfast bar in its conservatory and we sat mesmerised by the great peak glistening in the sun every morning. It was a perfect start to the day.As for our return journey, that proved to be as relaxing and efficient as our outward trip. Certainly it beats a coach transfer hands down. Indeed, the next time we come to Zermatt, Anna and I have decided we will do the trip properly and go all the way by rail. Eurostar trains leave St Pancras at 7.20am and 8.40am and will get you into Zermatt, via Paris and Lausanne, by 8.14pm and 9.14pm respectively that day. Prices start at around \u00a3160 return. Michael Robbins would certainly have approved.Robin McKie travelled with Swiss International Air Lines (0845 601 0956; swiss.com) which flies from London, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich, Geneva and Basel from \u00a369 return. A \u00a367 Swiss Transfer Ticket allows a return rail transfer from Swiss airports to resorts, but must be bought in the UK from the Switzerland Travel Centre on 00 800 100 200 30 or at myswitzerland.com/rail. Under-16s travel free, with a paying adult. The Bijou Hotel (00 41 27 966 5151; hotel-bijou.ch) offers doubles from CHF130 (\u00a376).", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Switzerland: Express train route to the Zermatt slopes"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A 23-year-old who played rugby for England as a teenager has committed suicide in a Swiss euthanasia clinic after having become paralysed from the chest down in a training accident. Police are investigating.Nuneaton rugby club hooker Daniel James felt his body had become a \"prison\" and lived in \"fear and loathing\" of his daily life, his parents said last night, having accompanied him to Switzerland from their home in Sinton Green, near Worcester. He had attempted to kill himself several times since March 2007 when a scrum had collapsed on him and dislocated his neck vertebrae, trapping his spinal cord and rendering him immediately tetraplegic.West Mercia Police have begun an investigation into his assisted suicide, which took place on September 12. Details were made public yesterday when police published a statement relating to an inquest in progress. Assisted suicide is illegal in the UK, and family or friends who help face up to 14 years in jail. Officers have questioned a man and a women in the case and are preparing to submit a report to the Crown Prosecution Service.James' parents, Mark and Julie, said last night that their son had been \"an intelligent young man of sound mind\" and \"not prepared to live what he felt was a second-class existence\".He is one of the youngest Britons to have travelled abroad for assisted suicide. Earlier this month, Dignitas, the centre for assisted dying in Zurich, said that 100 Britons have travelled to Switzerland to make use of its more liberal laws. It is thought James attended a clinic in Berne.James was a talented player who seemed destined for a professional career. He played for England at under-16 level and went on to play for Loughborough University, where he was an engineering undergraduate. The training accident happened four days after he helped England Students beat a France side in Oxford.In a training session for forwards, he was practising a scrum when the pack came crashing down. Under their weight, he dislocated bones in his neck and trapped the spinal cord.In the following weeks he had several operations and spent eight months in rehabilitation, including a stay at Stoke Mandeville hospital, before returning home; he only ever regained a small amount of use in his fingers. Early last month he travelled to Switzerland. His funeral took place in the UK on October 1.\"His death was an extremely sad loss for his family, friends and all those that cared for him, but no doubt a welcome relief from the prison he felt his body had become and the day to day fear and loathing of his living existence,\" the James family solicitors said last night. \"This is the last way that the family wanted Dan's life to end, but he was, as those who know him are aware, an intelligent, strong-willed, and some say determined young man.\" Yesterday the Spinal Injuries Association expressed shock. \"When someone has an injury like this, you think its the end of the world as life is going to change for ever,\" said Daniel Burden, head of public affairs. \"But our mantra is that life need not end if you are paralysed. We know of people with similar or worse injuries than Dan who have lived fulfilling lives.\"The case comes as Debbie Purdy, 45, who has primary progressive multiple sclerosis, awaits a high court judgement seeking clarification of the legal status of family and friends who accompany people who commit assisted suicide. Her action is being supported by Dignity in Dying, which campaigns for a law change to allow terminally ill and mentally competent patients to choose assisted death in the UK. James, who was not terminally ill, would not have been eligible under any such alteration of the law. Prior to his death, James's uncle, Mark Roebuck, who started The Dan James Trust which raised nearly \u00a325,000 for spinal research, paid tribute to his nephew.\"On Monday March 12 2007 Dan was just like thousands of 23-year-olds, full of life, hope, excitement and dreams. Whatever he chose to do, he would have done it with the good humour and lovely nature that made him a lovable young man.\"The message boards on Nuneaton rugby club's website carried tributes yesterday. \"This is really sad and tragic news, and it makes all the silly arguments with the rugby and football club very trivial and unimportant,\" said Nutty Nun. \"My thoughts, sympathy and prayers are with Dan's family. RIP Dan.\"Although suicide is no longer a crime in England and Wales, it is still an offence under the Suicide Act 1961 to \"aid, counsel or procure the suicide of another\"; the penalty is up to 14 years' imprisonment, and there have been 12 prosecutions since 2005.The only jurisdictions where assisted suicide is not illegal are Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the state of Oregon in the US. Although Swiss law does not specifically permit assisted suicide or provide any details about how it can be done legally, it does not prohibit it either. Several clinics have been established, providing facilities for terminally ill people to commit suicide, including Dignitas in Berne, the only clinic which offers its services to people not living in Switzerland. Since it opened in 1998 it has helped 868 people to end their lives, 100 of them from the UK.Dignitas's motto is \"to live with dignity - to die with dignity\". It offers a service to the terminally ill and their families including accommodation, access to doctors and a dose of a drug causing a deep coma and painless death. However, anyone who accompanies a relative to Dignitas risks prosecution on their return for assisting suicide contrary to English law.Afua Hirsch", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "'He wasn't prepared for a second-class life': why injured rugby star went to Switzerland to die"},{"date": "2008-12-09T14:24:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "No charges are to be brought against the family of a paralysed rugby player for helping him travel to Switzerland to end his life, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) ruled today. Daniel James, 23, died at a clinic run by the Dignitas organisation on September 12, more than a year after a rugby accident left him paralysed from the chest down. The CPS considered bringing charges under the Suicide Act against his parents, Mark and Julie James, from Sinton Green, Worcester. But the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, said today such a prosecution would not be in the public interest and no further action would be taken against the couple.Mr Starmer said that while public interest factors to support a prosecution did exist, among them the seriousness of the case, these were outweighed by arguments against. \"This is a tragic case, involving as it does the death of a young man in difficult and unique circumstances,\" he said. \"In reaching my decision I have given careful consideration to the code for crown prosecutors. \"In particular, but not exclusively, I would point to the fact that Daniel, as a fiercely independent young man, was not influenced by his parents to take his own life, and the evidence indicates he did so despite their imploring him not to.\" A training ground injury in March 2007 left James paralysed from the chest down, with no independent hand or finger movement. Eight months later, his consultant said it was unlikely he would ever enjoy a significant recovery.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news"], "title": "Suicide rugby player Daniel James: CPS rules out charges"},{"date": "2008-10-08T17:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "World stockmarkets suffered another day of turmoil, the FTSE 100 slumping a further 5%, despite the Bank of England joining other world central banks today in a coordinated cut in interest rates designed to ward off the threat of global recession.The Bank, the US Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank all lopped half a point off their key interest rates in the first unscheduled rate moves since the aftermath of 9/11. Sweden, Canada and Switzerland made similar cuts. Australia reduced rates by a whole percentage point earlier this week.Expectations of coordinated action had been growing in recent days, as the global financial crisis worsened, giving rise to fears that it could tip the world economy into a deep and prolonged slump.There were sharp increases in European markets as the surprise announcements were made, but confidence quickly waned. The FTSE 100 index had plunged by as much as 360 points, or 7.8%, in early trading before rallying after the rate cuts. At 12.30pm it was slightly up but ended the day 5.2% lower, dropping 238.5 points to close at 4366.7. At 5.30pm, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had also traded to widl extremes, was down about 2.4%, 223 points lower at 9223.Threadneedle Street cut its bank rate to 4.5%, the Fed to 1.5% and the ECB to 3.75%. It marked the biggest cut by the Bank of England since November 2001, and takes rates here to their lowest for two years. The MPC has now abandoned its rate-setting meeting so there will be no announcement tomorrow.Simon Rubinsohn, chief economist at the Royal Insitution of Chartered Surveyors, said: \"The dramatic response from the authorities is an appropriate response to the chaos in financial markets over the past few weeks and the global economy's slide into recession. This should help to start the process of rebuilding confidence but we suspect that more action will be necessary over the coming months.\"Some economists have already said that the gravity of the crisis facing the British economy could see rates reduced to as low as 2.5%, which would be their lowest in over half a century.Miles Templeman, director-general of the IoD said: \"We welcome the coordinated monetary and fiscal response to the current crisis. However, we strongly believe that a further interest rate reduction of 50 basis points will be required next month, if not before.\"Inflation was yesterday's story, recession is today's story and deflation is tomorrow's risk. Interest rates are heading in one direction \u2013 down.\"The central banks made a joint statment saying: \"Inflationary pressures have started to moderate in a number of countries, partly reflecting a marked decline in energy and other commodity prices. Inflation expectations are diminishing and remain anchored to price stability. \"The recent intensification of the financial crisis has augmented the downside risks to growth and thus has diminished further the upside risks to price stability.\".The Bank of England said the monetary policy committee believed that inflation in the UK would soon peak at 5%, and then start to fall. \"Inflation is likely to rise further to above 5% in the next month or two, in large part as the full effects of already-announced increases in the price of domestic energy are felt. But inflation should then drop back, as the contribution from retail energy prices wanes, and the margin of spare capacity in the economy increases.\"The MPC said that cuts in interest rates alone \"could not be expected to resolve the current problems in financial markets\" and that they welcomed the government's plan to recapitalise the major UK banks. Separately, the AA reported that petrol prices at the pump had fallen by 10p a litre since their high in July to an average of 109.4p a litre.", "tags": ["Interest rates", "Banking", "Bank of England", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Money"], "title": "Central banks cut interest rates to buoy global economy"},{"date": "2008-12-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A pioneering Swiss programme to give addicts government authorised heroin was overwhelmingly approved yesterday by voters who simultaneously rejected the decriminalisation of marijuana.Sixty-eight per cent of voters approved making the heroin programme permanent. It has been credited with reducing crime and improving the health and daily lives of addicts since it began 14 years ago.Only 36.8% of voters favoured the marijuana initiative.Olivier Borer, 35, a musician from the northern town of Solothurn, said he welcomed the outcome. \"I think it's very important to help these people, but not to facilitate the using of drugs. You can just see in the Netherlands how it's going. People just go there to smoke,\" Borer said.Parliament approved the heroin measure in a revision of Switzerland's narcotics law in March, but conservatives challenged the decision and forced a national referendum under Switzerland's system of direct democracy.The heroin programme has helped eliminate the scenes of large groups of drug users shooting up openly in parks that marred Swiss cities in the 1980s and 1990s, supporters say.The United States and the UN narcotics board have criticised the programme as potentially fuelling drug abuse, but other governments have started or are considering their own schemes modelled on the system.The marijuana issue was based on a separate citizens' initiative to decriminalise the consumption of marijuana and growing the plant for personal use.Jo Lang, a Green party member of parliament from the city of Zug, said he was disappointed in the failure of the marijuana measure because it meant 600,000 people in Switzerland would be treated as criminals because they used cannabis.\"People have died from alcohol and heroin, but not from cannabis,\" Lang said.The government, which opposes the marijuana proposal, said it feared that liberalising marijuana could cause problems with neighbouring countries. \"This could lead to a situation where you have some sort of cannabis tourism in Switzerland because something that is illegal in the EU would be legal in Switzerland,\" a government spokesman, Oswald Sigg, said.The heroin program is offered in 23 discreet centres across Switzerland, which offer support to nearly 1,300 addicts who have not been helped by other therapies. Under supervision, they inject doses measured to satisfy a craving but not enough to cause a high.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Drugs", "Science", "Europe"], "title": "Swiss approve heroin scheme but vote down marijuana law"},{"date": "2008-11-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Global Gender Gap Index top 151 Norway 2 Finland 3 Sweden 4 Iceland 5 New Zealand6 Philippines7 Denmark8 Ireland9 Netherlands10 Latvia11 Germany12 Sri Lanka13 UK14 Switzerland15 France", "tags": ["Society"], "title": "First among equals"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:15:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss authorities today moved belatedly to shore up their two biggest banks, taking a near-10% stake in UBS and forcing it and Credit Suisse to increase their capital base.The government and central bank denied UBS had stood on the brink of catastrophe but Europe's biggest casualty of the sub-prime crisis admitted it had seen a \"massive\" withdrawal of funds from its wealthy customers and had been drawing on its cash reserves.UBS, which had written down some $44bn (\u00a325bn) of toxic assets and raised $27bn in fresh capital, saw almost $75bn of assets in wealth and asset management withdrawn in the third quarter.The process accelerated last month after the US government allowed Lehman Brothers to go bust and investors, worried about the Swiss bank's damaged reputation, panicked.The surprise Swiss move is the latest by the authorities in the west to bail out their banking sectors in the face of the unprecedented credit crunch but UBS insisted it was a \"normal commercial operation \" and it was now \"clean\".In a deal coordinated by ministers, the Swiss National Bank and federal banking commission, the government effectively pumped $60bn into UBS, taking virtually the last $50bn of its toxic assets into a special purpose vehicle off its books and owned by the SNB.The government is temporarily taking a 9.3% stake in UBS with a Sfr6bn (\u00a33bn) capital injection. Credit Suisse, the country's second-biggest bank, turned down the offer of state aid but has raised Sfr10bn from sovereign wealth fund Qatar Investment Authority and a group of private investors, including Israeli firm Koor Industries.These moves will drive up the capital ratios of Switzerland's two biggest banks, with CS at 13.7% and UBS, whose ratio stood at 10.8% at the end of September, climbing higher towards tough new rules due from 2013.At the core of the tripartite Swiss operation is the decision to take on $49bn of toxic UBS assets \u2014 $31bn in the US and $18bn of non-US debt \u2014 into the new entity. This will be funded by $6bn of UBS equity acquired via the government and $54bn from the SNB.The aim is gradually to sell off these illiquid assets, with the central bank receiving the first $1bn of any profits, and it and UBS sharing the rest on a 50-50 basis.UBS insiders said: \"This is now it. We have got rid of these toxic assets but there's an upside and, if they perform well, we can repay the equity. It draws a line, de-risks the bank and puts us ahead of the game as regards other banks.\"Marcel Rohner, chief executive, said on a conference call that the moves would enable UBS to \"bring itself back on track to a more normal operating mode.\"John Cryan, chief financial officer, said the bank would be \"significantly\" profitable in 2009, enabling dividend payouts to resume in 2010. The bank confirmed previous guidance by reporting a \"modest\" Sfr296m profit in the third quarter.Brady Dougan, CS chief executive, reported a third-quarter net loss of around Sfr1.3bn ahead of next week's official figures. CS said its investment bank lost about Sfr3.2bn in the quarter, writing down a further Sfr2.4bn in leveraged finance and structured products.Analysts said today's moves made the Swiss banks the best capitalised in the world and restored stability to the system. Shares in the two banks, which initially fell as much as 10%, recovered gradually throughout the day.", "tags": ["UBS", "Credit Suisse", "Credit crunch", "Business", "European banks", "Sovereign wealth funds", "World news", "Switzerland", "US housing and sub-prime crisis", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland unveils bank bail-out plan"},{"date": "2008-10-01T10:57:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The hottest hot chocolateChez Dany. This restaurant is on the ski route from Les Ruinettes down to M\u00e9dran. It's on a nice, sunny plateau surrounded by forest, with a breathtaking view over the 4,314m Combins Massiv and the Bagnes valley. Having a hot chocolate on its terrace, in the sun, makes you feel like you're in heaven. The ultimate lunch spotCabane Mont-Fort. This genuine mountain hut (it's part of the Swiss Alpine Club) is on the run from Col des Gentianes to La Chaux. From its sunny terrace you have a great view over the Combins Massiv. The traditional food (fondue, croute au fromage, macaronis gratins and salades) is excellent. And the atmosphere is super relaxed. Apr\u00e8s beer time Le Carrefour. On the way down to Verbier, head to the right handside. You will notice the terrace with different levels. Even the sun likes to stay longer at this place, which is right above the resort. And there are no worries about making your way home. The free shuttle bus stops just a few meters away from the terrace. And if you want to stay longer, Carrefour is also serves nice food (meat grilled on a hot stone or r\u00f6sti) in a chalet ambiance. Top of the slopesIf you like carving head to Les Attelas early in the morning and enjoy the wide open runs down to Les Ruinettes and Verbier. Perfectly groomed, they allow you to express your talent in big turns. Think you're an expert? Tortin or Mont-Fort will sort the men from the boys. Steepness, moguls, level difference: these slopes have it all. My word of adviceMake the most of the afternoon sun by ensuring your after lunch runs are based in the La Chaux area. With its slopes facing south with the Combins Massiv as a background it couldn't be more perfect to top up your goggle mark tan. And if the weather closes in the Savoleyres or Bruson slopes will still offer good visibility.EasyJet flies to Geneva from \u00a365.98 return. from Geneva airport, the train takes 2 hours 12 mins to Le Ch\u00e2ble below Verbier, from where you can catch a bus.By train, Eurostar to Paris, TGV from Paris to Geneva (3hrs 22 mins), Geneva to Lausanne (3 hrs 54 mins).Where to stay: Verbier can be an eye-wateringly expensive resort to stay in, but has some of the best partially regulated off-piste descents in the world. An affordable option is The Bunker, a converted nuclear bunker beneath the sports centre offering dorm beds from \u00a314 a night. Igluski can arrange apartments in Nendaz, a small hamlet near Verbier. Read David Rose's account in the Observer on how to do Verbier on a budget. More information: Verbier Tourist Office", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Travel", "Snowboarding", "Winter sports holidays"], "title": "The insider's ski guide to Verbier, Switzerland"},{"date": "2008-10-18T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for those who've never been there, Switzerland wears an aura of exquisite, if slightly boring, perfection. It is a country known mostly for mountains, chocolate, anonymous bank accounts, an exemplary public transport system and finishing schools. But even though it may not be home to cutting-edge music or avant-garde artists, it has been achieving great heights, and not just in its famously pointed topography. Over the last decade or so Switzerland has been undergoing, quietly of course, a style revolution.Some of the world's greatest architecture is now Swiss-made, and some of the world's greatest architects call Switzerland their home. The country that brought us one of the most influential architects of our times, Le Corbusier, is also the birthplace of Herzog and de Meuron (of the Tate Modern). Spanish architect Santiago Calatrava is based here, and Norman Foster, who recently renovated the sprawling Dolder Grand hotel near Zurich, has set up home in a chateau outside Geneva. Boutique hotels and modern alpine spas have sprouted, and in the centres of Lucerne, Geneva, Basel and Zurich new design shops and stylish bars abound. Swiss towns still offer enough gingerbread buildings, flower baskets and cuckoo clocks to keep the fairytale alive, but the 21st-century modern movement is emerging in its Swiss perfect way and attracting a new generation of visitors.ZurichIf you really want to see the best of the new Swiss style, you have to go to Zurich, named by Wallpaper magazine as 'Europe's trendiest and most popular city'. Once known as mainly a financial centre, Zurich has experienced a creative explosion. That image got a huge boost when Google chose to establish its European engineering centre here last year, and as one Google employee put it, 'Zurich has all the sophistication of a big city without the dirt and the crime'. Now there is something for everyone: plenty of old-time charm as well as stylish new elements for the design-conscious urban nomad. Elegant traditional hotels and restaurants mix with high-style design hotels and a zingy nightlife in a city named the 'Gay Capital of Switzerland'.Many travellers' first taste of Zurich's design aesthetic starts as soon as they touch down at Zurich-Kloten airport, with its grand glass arrivals lounge and hi-tech new terminal building. Contemporary architecture groupies shouldn't miss Santiago Calatrava's Stadelhofen train station, an early example of the dramatic sweeping forms that have become his trademark in buildings like the City of Arts and Sciences in Valencia. In Zurich you will also find Le Corbusier's last building, the Heidi Weber House in the Zurichhorn Park. Originally built as a private house, it is now an art gallery and home to the Centre Le Corbusier. In town, head for the stylish and stylishly expensive Widder (www.widderhotel.ch), a minimalist boutique hotel with furniture by Adolf Loos, Charles Eames, Le Corbusier and Josef Hoffmann. Or try the ultra-trendy Sorell Hotel Zurichberg (www.zuerichberg.ch), located slightly out of the way on a mountain slope and offering views over the city. The most talked-about hotel of recent months is the Dolder Grand (www.thedoldergrand.com) originally a turreted castle, which has had its grandeur restored and two new energy-efficient wings added along with full spa facilities. For dining it has to be the modern gourmet fare of the Blaue Ente (Seefeldstrasse 223), located inside a revamped turbine hall in a redeveloped industrial area. Afterwards, head to another, edgier, regenerated neighbourhood, Zuri West, where trendy bars and clubs in former factory buildings abound. Club 0815 (Lintheschergasse 23) is a cool modern cafe and bar that hosts an electronic club at night. Also try the popular Labor-bar (Schiffbaustrasse 3), and one of the newest design creations, the Hive (Geroldstrasse 5), which retains the aura of Zurich's famous 'illegal' clubs (ad hoc bars that sprang up around the city without proper licences and are generally known by word of mouth). For retail therapy, visit the Freitag flagship store (Geroldstrasse 17) for something by the Zurich-born brothers known for making bags and accessories from recycled bicycle inner-tubes and seatbelt straps (with designs now in the New York's MoMA). And don't miss a visit to a sauna in a floating pavilion at the Seebad Enge (www.tonttu.ch), probably the coolest of Zurich's lakeside spa/cafe/lounges. Open even in winter, it offers a view of stunning mountain peaks in between a spell in the sauna and a jump into the icy lake. (It's also open for cocktails at night.) BaselThe dark-clothed duo, Herzog and de Meuron, who were responsible for the Beijing Olympic stadium and Tate Modern's transformation from derelict power station to art destination, have their headquarters in Basel. Local projects include the St Jakob 'experience park', a monumental sports stadium that was enlarged further for Euro 2008. The firm is leaving its imprimatur on other aspects of the city with its design for the Fondation Herzog, a museum of the history of photography (Oslo Strasse 8).Basel is also home to one of the world's biggest art fairs, Art Basel, dubbed 'the Olympics of the Art World', which takes place in June. For a more subdued artistic experience, visit the Fondation Beyeler, a collection of modern art housed in a building by architect Renzo Piano (Baselstrasse 101). Basel is a good base for visiting Frank Gehry's Vitra Design Museum, just over the border in Weil am Rhein, Germany (Charles-Eames-Strasse 1), and easy to reach by bus or train. The Vitra Fire Station, designed by Zaha Hadid, is also nearby. Hotels in Basel still tend toward the traditional or the very basic contemporary but the Royal (www.royal-hotel.ch) offers stylish modern rooms arranged according to the principles of feng shui.The mountainsFor centuries the Swiss Alps have been a destination for skiing and spa-ing, but gone are the days when a mountain holiday meant stomping around beneath cuckoo clocks and dried flower arrangements. The building that started Switzerland's rise to high style is the now-famous Therme Vals spa and hotel (www.therme-vals.ch), about 200km outside Zurich in a small mountain town. Vals was a homegrown enterprise that quickly gained a reputation as one of the most elegant creations of the late 20th century. Designed by Peter Zumthor, the buildings are like blocks of sculpture in grey-green quartzite stone set in glorious alpine countryside. The grand spaces are beautifully spare, with not an unnecessary ornament in sight, just stone, water and the occasional piece of glass . A more vibrant atmosphere abounds elsewhere: even the stalwart village of Zermatt has modern boutique hotels and a rousing nightlife. A new four-star hotel, the Matterhorn Focus (www.matterhorn-focus.ch) opened in June and will see its first winter guests this year. Its modern angular form hugs the hillside so that the guest rooms, with wide glass walls, have unimpeded views of the Matterhorn. While the glamour pistes of Gstaad and St Moritz still crawl with fashionistas as well as families, other somewhat less familiar spots like Verbier, with its sleek Neva\u00ef hotel (www.nevai.ch), and Arosa with the newly renovated Tschuggen Grand (www.tschuggen.ch), are attracting a new wave of style devotees. The Tschuggen features a brand new spa designed by Mario Botta and is marked out by its distinctive triangular glass dormer windows. It is now open during the summer months to host growing numbers of people coming for cycling and walking holidays.", "tags": ["Travel Awards 2008", "Switzerland holidays", "Cultural trips", "Zurich holidays", "Spa breaks", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Art and design", "Culture", "Short breaks"], "title": "Switzerland: More than clocks and chocs"},{"date": "2008-12-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The writer Michael Robbins had a clear view about the joys of travelling by train. \"The railway etches in fresh detail to the scene,\" he noted in his 1962 classic The Railway Age. \"It rarely jars and it usually pleases.\" It is, quite simply, the best way to travel: far superior to cramped aircraft or to coaches that twist round narrow continental roads. A train is a calm, contemplative, relaxing - and occasionally romantic - way to begin a holiday.It does have drawbacks, of course. It still takes time to take a train to distant parts, particularly ski resorts. Even Alpine villages relatively close to Britain require a day's travelling, despite the introduction of Eurostar services. Such journey times can seriously diminish a train's allure.But bit by bit, things are getting better - a new line here, a high-speed link there. And last year one of the most dramatic improvements was made by the Swiss, who completed construction of one of Europe's most ambitious railway projects: the 21-mile L\u00f6tschberg Base Tunnel between Bern and Visp.At a cost of \u00a32.5bn, the L\u00f6tschberg is the longest land tunnel in the world and replaces a slower underground rail line. It now sweeps passengers deep below the Alps on journeys between northern and southern Switzerland. It is a major transport boost for the Swiss, but it is also a boon for foreign skiers heading for Switzerland's key resorts direct from the country's main airports at Bern and Zurich. The new tunnel slashes one hour five minutes from the journey, and means you can reach Zermatt, Saas Fee and other major resorts in half the time an airport coach would take - and in style. I recently tested the new tunnel, which opened last year, when I travelled from Zurich airport station on a train, to Visp and then on to Zermatt. The carriages were clean, uncrowded and had two storeys. My daughter Anna and I lounged on the upper deck and watched the Swiss countryside sweep past as we headed west to Bern and from there southwards towards Visp. At L\u00f6tschberg, our train plunged under the mountain at 125mph. More than 16 million tonnes of rock were cleared to construct the tunnel. The Swiss have even put the rail tracks on rubber shoes to absorb vibrations. I checked my mobile phone as we hurtled under the Alps and there was, of course, a signal. Needless to say, after emerging from the tunnel, we swept into Visp exactly on time.From Visp, the train climbs up though the snowline, through tiny villages, chalets and white frozen fields. For this section, it is worth paying extra to sit in the observation carriage so you can get a proper look at the white crags towering over the track. And if you feel like it, you can keep on travelling by rail when you reach Zermatt. At the town's station, the Gornergrat train will take you on the final link of your journey to the Gifthittli ski slopes, an ascent from 1,620m to 3,090m. The trains are heated, regular and offer stunning panoramas as you climb through pine and larch forest and then out on to the glistening Gornergrat ridge, with its fine long runs back down to Riffelalp and Zermatt.The line is Europe's highest open-air cogwheel rail line and has been carrying skiers to the Gifthittli pistes for more than a century, a reminder of the enduring attraction of Zermatt which this year marked its 170th anniversary as a tourist destination. In 1838, a local surgeon opened a guesthouse that could accommodate three people - and it flourished. Tourists came for the mountaineering and later for the skiing. Today, the resort can accommodate 14,000 visitors in 112 hotels and 2,000 holiday apartments, though you can still get a feel of what the old Zermatt must have been like from the old black-beamed barns that stand beside the town's swish restaurants and shops.Over the decades, Zermatt's fortunes have fluctuated. On a previous visit, more than 10 years ago, it was looking a little ragged. Its lifts were cramped and the towbars were ageing. Since then the resort has had a facelift: sumptuous new lifts have been installed; the Klein Matterhorn and Gornergrat pistes are now linked by cable cars; and large electronic display boards providing information about pistes and lifts have been put up at important points. The town still strains to cope with the swathes of skiers who flock here, but just about manages. There are queues on popular lifts at weekends but nothing too extreme. In any case, this is not a resort to take in at a rush. It is one to savour and there is a plethora of good restaurants on the slopes to help you do that. In Zermatt you can eat well in just about every cuisine you care to contemplate. We chose the Zur Alten M\u00fchle for our blow-out night and did well on its seafood starters, steaks and frites. Zermatt - unlike many other Swiss resorts - is also well-supplied with nightclubs, though we confined our apr\u00e8s-ski activities to the Antares Bar, where I discovered Anna had developed a staggering capacity for gin and tonic.For all its glamour, Zermatt would be nothing without the Matterhorn, however. Its enormous, chiselled pyramid towers over its landscape and gives the place a resonance possessed by no other ski resort. Our hotel, the Bijou, had a breakfast bar in its conservatory and we sat mesmerised by the great peak glistening in the sun every morning. It was a perfect start to the day.As for our return journey, that proved to be as relaxing and efficient as our outward trip. Certainly it beats a coach transfer hands down. Indeed, the next time we come to Zermatt, Anna and I have decided we will do the trip properly and go all the way by rail. Eurostar trains leave St Pancras at 7.20am and 8.40am and will get you into Zermatt, via Paris and Lausanne, by 8.14pm and 9.14pm respectively that day. Prices start at around \u00a3160 return. Michael Robbins would certainly have approved.Robin McKie travelled with Swiss International Air Lines (0845 601 0956; swiss.com) which flies from London, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich, Geneva and Basel from \u00a369 return. A \u00a367 Swiss Transfer Ticket allows a return rail transfer from Swiss airports to resorts, but must be bought in the UK from the Switzerland Travel Centre on 00 800 100 200 30 or at myswitzerland.com/rail. Under-16s travel free, with a paying adult. The Bijou Hotel (00 41 27 966 5151; hotel-bijou.ch) offers doubles from CHF130 (\u00a376).", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Ski resorts"], "title": "Switzerland: Express train route to the Zermatt slopes"},{"date": "2008-10-17T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A 23-year-old who played rugby for England as a teenager has committed suicide in a Swiss euthanasia clinic after having become paralysed from the chest down in a training accident. Police are investigating.Nuneaton rugby club hooker Daniel James felt his body had become a \"prison\" and lived in \"fear and loathing\" of his daily life, his parents said last night, having accompanied him to Switzerland from their home in Sinton Green, near Worcester. He had attempted to kill himself several times since March 2007 when a scrum had collapsed on him and dislocated his neck vertebrae, trapping his spinal cord and rendering him immediately tetraplegic.West Mercia Police have begun an investigation into his assisted suicide, which took place on September 12. Details were made public yesterday when police published a statement relating to an inquest in progress. Assisted suicide is illegal in the UK, and family or friends who help face up to 14 years in jail. Officers have questioned a man and a women in the case and are preparing to submit a report to the Crown Prosecution Service.James' parents, Mark and Julie, said last night that their son had been \"an intelligent young man of sound mind\" and \"not prepared to live what he felt was a second-class existence\".He is one of the youngest Britons to have travelled abroad for assisted suicide. Earlier this month, Dignitas, the centre for assisted dying in Zurich, said that 100 Britons have travelled to Switzerland to make use of its more liberal laws. It is thought James attended a clinic in Berne.James was a talented player who seemed destined for a professional career. He played for England at under-16 level and went on to play for Loughborough University, where he was an engineering undergraduate. The training accident happened four days after he helped England Students beat a France side in Oxford.In a training session for forwards, he was practising a scrum when the pack came crashing down. Under their weight, he dislocated bones in his neck and trapped the spinal cord.In the following weeks he had several operations and spent eight months in rehabilitation, including a stay at Stoke Mandeville hospital, before returning home; he only ever regained a small amount of use in his fingers. Early last month he travelled to Switzerland. His funeral took place in the UK on October 1.\"His death was an extremely sad loss for his family, friends and all those that cared for him, but no doubt a welcome relief from the prison he felt his body had become and the day to day fear and loathing of his living existence,\" the James family solicitors said last night. \"This is the last way that the family wanted Dan's life to end, but he was, as those who know him are aware, an intelligent, strong-willed, and some say determined young man.\" Yesterday the Spinal Injuries Association expressed shock. \"When someone has an injury like this, you think its the end of the world as life is going to change for ever,\" said Daniel Burden, head of public affairs. \"But our mantra is that life need not end if you are paralysed. We know of people with similar or worse injuries than Dan who have lived fulfilling lives.\"The case comes as Debbie Purdy, 45, who has primary progressive multiple sclerosis, awaits a high court judgement seeking clarification of the legal status of family and friends who accompany people who commit assisted suicide. Her action is being supported by Dignity in Dying, which campaigns for a law change to allow terminally ill and mentally competent patients to choose assisted death in the UK. James, who was not terminally ill, would not have been eligible under any such alteration of the law. Prior to his death, James's uncle, Mark Roebuck, who started The Dan James Trust which raised nearly \u00a325,000 for spinal research, paid tribute to his nephew.\"On Monday March 12 2007 Dan was just like thousands of 23-year-olds, full of life, hope, excitement and dreams. Whatever he chose to do, he would have done it with the good humour and lovely nature that made him a lovable young man.\"The message boards on Nuneaton rugby club's website carried tributes yesterday. \"This is really sad and tragic news, and it makes all the silly arguments with the rugby and football club very trivial and unimportant,\" said Nutty Nun. \"My thoughts, sympathy and prayers are with Dan's family. RIP Dan.\"Although suicide is no longer a crime in England and Wales, it is still an offence under the Suicide Act 1961 to \"aid, counsel or procure the suicide of another\"; the penalty is up to 14 years' imprisonment, and there have been 12 prosecutions since 2005.The only jurisdictions where assisted suicide is not illegal are Switzerland, the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, and the state of Oregon in the US. Although Swiss law does not specifically permit assisted suicide or provide any details about how it can be done legally, it does not prohibit it either. Several clinics have been established, providing facilities for terminally ill people to commit suicide, including Dignitas in Berne, the only clinic which offers its services to people not living in Switzerland. Since it opened in 1998 it has helped 868 people to end their lives, 100 of them from the UK.Dignitas's motto is \"to live with dignity - to die with dignity\". It offers a service to the terminally ill and their families including accommodation, access to doctors and a dose of a drug causing a deep coma and painless death. However, anyone who accompanies a relative to Dignitas risks prosecution on their return for assisting suicide contrary to English law.Afua Hirsch", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news", "Health", "Society"], "title": "'He wasn't prepared for a second-class life': why injured rugby star went to Switzerland to die"},{"date": "2008-12-09T14:24:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "No charges are to be brought against the family of a paralysed rugby player for helping him travel to Switzerland to end his life, the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) ruled today. Daniel James, 23, died at a clinic run by the Dignitas organisation on September 12, more than a year after a rugby accident left him paralysed from the chest down. The CPS considered bringing charges under the Suicide Act against his parents, Mark and Julie James, from Sinton Green, Worcester. But the Director of Public Prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, said today such a prosecution would not be in the public interest and no further action would be taken against the couple.Mr Starmer said that while public interest factors to support a prosecution did exist, among them the seriousness of the case, these were outweighed by arguments against. \"This is a tragic case, involving as it does the death of a young man in difficult and unique circumstances,\" he said. \"In reaching my decision I have given careful consideration to the code for crown prosecutors. \"In particular, but not exclusively, I would point to the fact that Daniel, as a fiercely independent young man, was not influenced by his parents to take his own life, and the evidence indicates he did so despite their imploring him not to.\" A training ground injury in March 2007 left James paralysed from the chest down, with no independent hand or finger movement. Eight months later, his consultant said it was unlikely he would ever enjoy a significant recovery.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news"], "title": "Suicide rugby player Daniel James: CPS rules out charges"},{"date": "2008-10-08T17:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "World stockmarkets suffered another day of turmoil, the FTSE 100 slumping a further 5%, despite the Bank of England joining other world central banks today in a coordinated cut in interest rates designed to ward off the threat of global recession.The Bank, the US Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank all lopped half a point off their key interest rates in the first unscheduled rate moves since the aftermath of 9/11. Sweden, Canada and Switzerland made similar cuts. Australia reduced rates by a whole percentage point earlier this week.Expectations of coordinated action had been growing in recent days, as the global financial crisis worsened, giving rise to fears that it could tip the world economy into a deep and prolonged slump.There were sharp increases in European markets as the surprise announcements were made, but confidence quickly waned. The FTSE 100 index had plunged by as much as 360 points, or 7.8%, in early trading before rallying after the rate cuts. At 12.30pm it was slightly up but ended the day 5.2% lower, dropping 238.5 points to close at 4366.7. At 5.30pm, the Dow Jones Industrial Average, which had also traded to widl extremes, was down about 2.4%, 223 points lower at 9223.Threadneedle Street cut its bank rate to 4.5%, the Fed to 1.5% and the ECB to 3.75%. It marked the biggest cut by the Bank of England since November 2001, and takes rates here to their lowest for two years. The MPC has now abandoned its rate-setting meeting so there will be no announcement tomorrow.Simon Rubinsohn, chief economist at the Royal Insitution of Chartered Surveyors, said: \"The dramatic response from the authorities is an appropriate response to the chaos in financial markets over the past few weeks and the global economy's slide into recession. This should help to start the process of rebuilding confidence but we suspect that more action will be necessary over the coming months.\"Some economists have already said that the gravity of the crisis facing the British economy could see rates reduced to as low as 2.5%, which would be their lowest in over half a century.Miles Templeman, director-general of the IoD said: \"We welcome the coordinated monetary and fiscal response to the current crisis. However, we strongly believe that a further interest rate reduction of 50 basis points will be required next month, if not before.\"Inflation was yesterday's story, recession is today's story and deflation is tomorrow's risk. Interest rates are heading in one direction \u2013 down.\"The central banks made a joint statment saying: \"Inflationary pressures have started to moderate in a number of countries, partly reflecting a marked decline in energy and other commodity prices. Inflation expectations are diminishing and remain anchored to price stability. \"The recent intensification of the financial crisis has augmented the downside risks to growth and thus has diminished further the upside risks to price stability.\".The Bank of England said the monetary policy committee believed that inflation in the UK would soon peak at 5%, and then start to fall. \"Inflation is likely to rise further to above 5% in the next month or two, in large part as the full effects of already-announced increases in the price of domestic energy are felt. But inflation should then drop back, as the contribution from retail energy prices wanes, and the margin of spare capacity in the economy increases.\"The MPC said that cuts in interest rates alone \"could not be expected to resolve the current problems in financial markets\" and that they welcomed the government's plan to recapitalise the major UK banks. Separately, the AA reported that petrol prices at the pump had fallen by 10p a litre since their high in July to an average of 109.4p a litre.", "tags": ["Interest rates", "Banking", "Bank of England", "Credit crunch", "Business", "Money"], "title": "Central banks cut interest rates to buoy global economy"},{"date": "2008-12-01T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A pioneering Swiss programme to give addicts government authorised heroin was overwhelmingly approved yesterday by voters who simultaneously rejected the decriminalisation of marijuana.Sixty-eight per cent of voters approved making the heroin programme permanent. It has been credited with reducing crime and improving the health and daily lives of addicts since it began 14 years ago.Only 36.8% of voters favoured the marijuana initiative.Olivier Borer, 35, a musician from the northern town of Solothurn, said he welcomed the outcome. \"I think it's very important to help these people, but not to facilitate the using of drugs. You can just see in the Netherlands how it's going. People just go there to smoke,\" Borer said.Parliament approved the heroin measure in a revision of Switzerland's narcotics law in March, but conservatives challenged the decision and forced a national referendum under Switzerland's system of direct democracy.The heroin programme has helped eliminate the scenes of large groups of drug users shooting up openly in parks that marred Swiss cities in the 1980s and 1990s, supporters say.The United States and the UN narcotics board have criticised the programme as potentially fuelling drug abuse, but other governments have started or are considering their own schemes modelled on the system.The marijuana issue was based on a separate citizens' initiative to decriminalise the consumption of marijuana and growing the plant for personal use.Jo Lang, a Green party member of parliament from the city of Zug, said he was disappointed in the failure of the marijuana measure because it meant 600,000 people in Switzerland would be treated as criminals because they used cannabis.\"People have died from alcohol and heroin, but not from cannabis,\" Lang said.The government, which opposes the marijuana proposal, said it feared that liberalising marijuana could cause problems with neighbouring countries. \"This could lead to a situation where you have some sort of cannabis tourism in Switzerland because something that is illegal in the EU would be legal in Switzerland,\" a government spokesman, Oswald Sigg, said.The heroin program is offered in 23 discreet centres across Switzerland, which offer support to nearly 1,300 addicts who have not been helped by other therapies. Under supervision, they inject doses measured to satisfy a craving but not enough to cause a high.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Drugs", "Science", "Europe"], "title": "Swiss approve heroin scheme but vote down marijuana law"},{"date": "2008-11-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Global Gender Gap Index top 151 Norway 2 Finland 3 Sweden 4 Iceland 5 New Zealand6 Philippines7 Denmark8 Ireland9 Netherlands10 Latvia11 Germany12 Sri Lanka13 UK14 Switzerland15 France", "tags": ["Society"], "title": "First among equals"},{"date": "2008-10-21T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "HM Revenue & Customs yesterday hit back in the wake of a critical report showing that many of Britain's biggest companies paid little or no corporation tax. Just 50 of the 700 largest firms paid two-thirds of the total tax raised from the sector in 2005/06 while 181 paid none, according to the cross-party public accounts committee.The MPs said corporation tax receipts were skewed towards a handful of sectors, with banking, oil and gas and insurance contributing two-thirds of large business corporation tax.The committee acknowledged that companies could legitimately reduce their corporation tax payments through a series of relief and allowances, but urged HMRC to speed up inquiries into corporate tax bills and improve its targeting of businesses which posed the biggest risk of non-compliance.In response, HMRC said: \"The tax system supports business expenditure on such areas as pensions, capital investment and research and development through a carefully policed system of reliefs and allowances. This inevitably reduces the amount of tax paid by some businesses. This is not the result of avoidance or evasion, but of the proper use of the reliefs that parliament has approved in order to encourage business growth and support investment in company pension funds.\"In response to criticism from the committee that more than 40% of its tax inquiries had been running for at least two years - against a target for completion of 18 months - HMRC said it had cut the number of open inquiries by more than 50% over the last 18 months.The committee chairman, Edward Leigh said: \"The department has introduced a new approach in which high-risk businesses will be singled out for extensive investigation. That's good but it must publicise this new approach. It should also robustly apply new penalties for those companies engaged in serious tax avoidance activities.\" In a separate development yesterday 17 of the world's leading economies vowed to draw up an expanded blacklist of countries that failed to meet standards on fiscal transparency. Warning that the global market turmoil spelled an end to tolerance of opaque and uncooperative financial centres, ministers from France and Germany said the new list from the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) could include Switzerland for the first time. \"Switzerland should be on the blacklist and not the green list,\" said Peer Steinbruck, the German finance minister. \"Switzerland is only prepared to cooperate with us if there is tax evasion. But to prove this tax evasion we need the exact information that Switzerland has, but it will not deliver it,\" he said.Eric Woerth, the French budget minister, said: \"Banking secrecy has its limits. Switzerland has made progress ... but we must take matters further.\"Until now three tax havens - Andorra, Liechtenstein and Monaco - had come in for particular criticism from the OECD, but sources said as many as a dozen could be added to the new blacklist, due to be unveiled in the middle of next year. Some commentators were sceptical as to how much the meeting, which was boycotted by Switzerland and Luxembourg, could achieve. The absence of the US, without whose participation any global crackdown would be almost impossible, was seen as a particular obstacle.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Economic policy", "Economics", "Banking", "Market turmoil", "Credit crunch", "Politics", "Business"], "title": "MPs urge clampdown on firms failing to pay"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:16:20Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Naked alpine ramblers have been warned to keep their clothes on this spring or face fines under new legislation introduced by Swiss authorities intended to clamp down on a growing pastime.The Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has said it will slap fines of 200 francs (\u00a3122) on holidaymakers going naked in the Alps.\"We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts,\" said Melchior Looser, the justice and police minister of the canton.He said that until now the naturist walkers \u2013 sometimes referred to as \"boot-only hikers\" \u2013 had been free to wander naked because there was no law to prevent them from doing so. The new law is expected to come into force on 9 February in time for the start of the hiking season.According to one naked hiker website, nacktwandern.de, the trend goes back to the start of the 20th century and has much to do with the new access it gives people to nature.\"Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature\", the site said. Some hikers even abandon footwear.A 58-year-old German lawyer and naked hiker called Dietmar, who declined to give his last name, said he was sad to hear of the Swiss changes. \"We simply try to tune into nature,\" he said. \"It's the most harmless pursuit possible.\"Looser said: \"The point is many children visit our mountains in the summer.\"Naked ramblers are drawn to Appenzell Innerrhoden \u2013 which is also famous for delaying giving women the vote until 1990 \u2013 by its beautiful landscape. Last year an internet campaign by a lobby group of hikers declared it to be a \"naked rambler paradise\", prompting a rush of visitors.The naturist movement in the German-speaking world \u2013 known as free body culture (FKK) \u2013 has traditionally flourished on beaches rather than in the mountains. According to a strict set of rules, beaches are divided into designated sections for nudists and non-nudists, with beach police patrolling the two to keep the peace.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Naked hikers face fines in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:16:20Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Naked alpine ramblers have been warned to keep their clothes on this spring or face fines under new legislation introduced by Swiss authorities intended to clamp down on a growing pastime.The Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has said it will slap fines of 200 francs (\u00a3122) on holidaymakers going naked in the Alps.\"We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts,\" said Melchior Looser, the justice and police minister of the canton.He said that until now the naturist walkers \u2013 sometimes referred to as \"boot-only hikers\" \u2013 had been free to wander naked because there was no law to prevent them from doing so. The new law is expected to come into force on 9 February in time for the start of the hiking season.According to one naked hiker website, nacktwandern.de, the trend goes back to the start of the 20th century and has much to do with the new access it gives people to nature.\"Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature\", the site said. Some hikers even abandon footwear.A 58-year-old German lawyer and naked hiker called Dietmar, who declined to give his last name, said he was sad to hear of the Swiss changes. \"We simply try to tune into nature,\" he said. \"It's the most harmless pursuit possible.\"Looser said: \"The point is many children visit our mountains in the summer.\"Naked ramblers are drawn to Appenzell Innerrhoden \u2013 which is also famous for delaying giving women the vote until 1990 \u2013 by its beautiful landscape. Last year an internet campaign by a lobby group of hikers declared it to be a \"naked rambler paradise\", prompting a rush of visitors.The naturist movement in the German-speaking world \u2013 known as free body culture (FKK) \u2013 has traditionally flourished on beaches rather than in the mountains. According to a strict set of rules, beaches are divided into designated sections for nudists and non-nudists, with beach police patrolling the two to keep the peace.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Naked hikers face fines in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-13T19:17:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switerland's decision today to play by international tax rules is the result of a great deal of political arm-twisting, aided by the sting of scandal.The long struggle to persuade the Swiss to abandon their banking secrecy is not yet over. There is still plenty of room for foot-dragging and hair-splitting and it is likely to be several years before any information is actually exchanged. But today was important.In accepting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) principles for the exchange of information on tax, the Swiss finally abandoned their insistence on a single, all-important legal point: that tax evasion is not a crime unless it involves active fraud, such as the forgery of paperwork.They will continue to treat evasion by their own citizens as a civil matter but finally, for foreigners, they have agreed in principle to provide on request the details of wealthy individuals and corporations who have income originating in Switzerland.The Swiss moved primarily because they were faced with the deeply undesirable prospect of finding themselves on a blacklist of unco-operative tax havens, due to be announced at the G20 meeting in London in April.This was not simply a threat of being named and shamed but, as the Guardian revealed this month, of being subjected to serious economic sanctions designed to drive away billions of dollars of their banking business. Since Switzerland earns 15% of its GDP from the finance sector, this threat made an impression.In the background, Switzerland's political authority has been severely weakened by the US investigation into one of its oldest and most prestigious banks, UBS, which has been caught brazenly helping thousands of wealthy Americans evade taxes.UBS staff have also been breaking the US law that forbids foreign bankers to tout for business, writing lies on their visa forms about the purpose of their visits to the US, carrying business cards that concealed their true profession and deploying counter-surveillance techniques.Even so, Switzerland continued to resist, arguing it simply could not afford to change its ways because it would lose so much business to other havens. But in a cleverly worked piece of diplomacy the OECD has persuaded all its main competitors \u2013 Liechtenstein, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg \u2013 to announce over the past 48 hours that they too would agree to provide information on tax evaders.But this remains only one battle in a long war against tax dodgers. No information will be disclosed until the Swiss have negotiated detailed double-taxation agreements with other nations.That process could take several years. The Swiss are indicating they will hand over information only if a detailed request is submitted and if that request complies with their own procedures. They are also calling for a \"grandfather clause\" that would allow them to continue to conceal all information about accounts or investments made with them in the past. Since Swiss banks are believed to hold something like a third of the estimated $11.5tn of personal wealth hidden offshore, this would knock a very big hole in yesterday's announcement.One source suggested this was simply a PR gesture to persuade existing account holders to stay. Bruno Gurtner, the Swiss economist who chairs the global board of the Tax Justice Network, welcomed today's announcement but warned nothing would change until the new treaties were negotiated.\"In the meantime, people with accounts in Switzerland have the chance to move their money away to other havens that still do not accept the principles,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland starts slow retreat over banking secrecy and tax evasion"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:16:20Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Naked alpine ramblers have been warned to keep their clothes on this spring or face fines under new legislation introduced by Swiss authorities intended to clamp down on a growing pastime.The Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has said it will slap fines of 200 francs (\u00a3122) on holidaymakers going naked in the Alps.\"We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts,\" said Melchior Looser, the justice and police minister of the canton.He said that until now the naturist walkers \u2013 sometimes referred to as \"boot-only hikers\" \u2013 had been free to wander naked because there was no law to prevent them from doing so. The new law is expected to come into force on 9 February in time for the start of the hiking season.According to one naked hiker website, nacktwandern.de, the trend goes back to the start of the 20th century and has much to do with the new access it gives people to nature.\"Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature\", the site said. Some hikers even abandon footwear.A 58-year-old German lawyer and naked hiker called Dietmar, who declined to give his last name, said he was sad to hear of the Swiss changes. \"We simply try to tune into nature,\" he said. \"It's the most harmless pursuit possible.\"Looser said: \"The point is many children visit our mountains in the summer.\"Naked ramblers are drawn to Appenzell Innerrhoden \u2013 which is also famous for delaying giving women the vote until 1990 \u2013 by its beautiful landscape. Last year an internet campaign by a lobby group of hikers declared it to be a \"naked rambler paradise\", prompting a rush of visitors.The naturist movement in the German-speaking world \u2013 known as free body culture (FKK) \u2013 has traditionally flourished on beaches rather than in the mountains. According to a strict set of rules, beaches are divided into designated sections for nudists and non-nudists, with beach police patrolling the two to keep the peace.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Naked hikers face fines in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-13T19:17:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switerland's decision today to play by international tax rules is the result of a great deal of political arm-twisting, aided by the sting of scandal.The long struggle to persuade the Swiss to abandon their banking secrecy is not yet over. There is still plenty of room for foot-dragging and hair-splitting and it is likely to be several years before any information is actually exchanged. But today was important.In accepting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) principles for the exchange of information on tax, the Swiss finally abandoned their insistence on a single, all-important legal point: that tax evasion is not a crime unless it involves active fraud, such as the forgery of paperwork.They will continue to treat evasion by their own citizens as a civil matter but finally, for foreigners, they have agreed in principle to provide on request the details of wealthy individuals and corporations who have income originating in Switzerland.The Swiss moved primarily because they were faced with the deeply undesirable prospect of finding themselves on a blacklist of unco-operative tax havens, due to be announced at the G20 meeting in London in April.This was not simply a threat of being named and shamed but, as the Guardian revealed this month, of being subjected to serious economic sanctions designed to drive away billions of dollars of their banking business. Since Switzerland earns 15% of its GDP from the finance sector, this threat made an impression.In the background, Switzerland's political authority has been severely weakened by the US investigation into one of its oldest and most prestigious banks, UBS, which has been caught brazenly helping thousands of wealthy Americans evade taxes.UBS staff have also been breaking the US law that forbids foreign bankers to tout for business, writing lies on their visa forms about the purpose of their visits to the US, carrying business cards that concealed their true profession and deploying counter-surveillance techniques.Even so, Switzerland continued to resist, arguing it simply could not afford to change its ways because it would lose so much business to other havens. But in a cleverly worked piece of diplomacy the OECD has persuaded all its main competitors \u2013 Liechtenstein, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg \u2013 to announce over the past 48 hours that they too would agree to provide information on tax evaders.But this remains only one battle in a long war against tax dodgers. No information will be disclosed until the Swiss have negotiated detailed double-taxation agreements with other nations.That process could take several years. The Swiss are indicating they will hand over information only if a detailed request is submitted and if that request complies with their own procedures. They are also calling for a \"grandfather clause\" that would allow them to continue to conceal all information about accounts or investments made with them in the past. Since Swiss banks are believed to hold something like a third of the estimated $11.5tn of personal wealth hidden offshore, this would knock a very big hole in yesterday's announcement.One source suggested this was simply a PR gesture to persuade existing account holders to stay. Bruno Gurtner, the Swiss economist who chairs the global board of the Tax Justice Network, welcomed today's announcement but warned nothing would change until the new treaties were negotiated.\"In the meantime, people with accounts in Switzerland have the chance to move their money away to other havens that still do not accept the principles,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland starts slow retreat over banking secrecy and tax evasion"},{"date": "2009-02-19T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A worldwide crackdown on tax havens, from Switzerland to the Cayman Islands, will be spearheaded by Gordon Brown as the world's richest nations use the global economic downturn to close loopholes that are costing them hundreds of billions in lost revenues.As he embarks on a mini-tour of EU capitals in advance of the G20 summit in London in April, the prime minister announced yesterday that he was negotiating with fellow world leaders the terms of a tough regulatory system on tax and banking that will cover every country.Speaking at his monthly press conference in Downing Street, Brown said: \"We want the whole of the world to take action. That will mean action against regulatory and tax havens in parts of the world which have escaped the regulatory attention they need. The changes we make will have to apply to all jurisdictions around the world.\"The global crackdown envisaged by Brown follows the Guardian's special series, the Tax Gap, which highlighted the ways a range of Britain's biggest companies have employed secretive tax arrangements to reduce their liability. HM Revenue & Customs estimates that the size of the tax gap, which has seen companies shift ownership of brands to offshore tax havens, could be anything between \u00a33.7bn and \u00a313bn.The prime minister, who will meet the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, today in Rome before a mini-summit of the four EU leaders in the G20 in Berlin on Sunday, declined to be drawn on the specifics of his plan. But the Guardian understands that he is taking a particular interest in Switzerland, while Barack Obama singled out the Cayman Islands during the US presidential election campaign.The other members of the G7 - plus the 13 other slightly less affluent members who make up the G20 - lose similar amounts. This means that the world's main industrialised countries could be losing in excess of \u00a3100bn in tax revenues a year.The prime minister believes that significant progress will be made at the G20 summit, which he will chair, because world leaders have recognised that the downturn provides a strong opportunity to crack down on tax havens.\"I am more confident now, having talked to world leaders, that we are in a position to take further action on this matter,\" he said yesterday.Brown's plan will have three key elements:\u2022 Clamping down on individuals who avoid tax. It is in this area that he is focusing his attention on Switzerland.One senior British figure said that a lengthy EU campaign to rein in savers who attempt to avoid tax had eventually identified a trail leading to Switzerland. The source said: \"If you take the EU we had this long campaign to stop tax avoidance on savings. Basically you had Germans putting their money into Luxembourg or Austria to prevent them being taxed in Germany. So the EU decided to clamp down on it. But actually people went to Switzerland and to Lichtenstein. So unless you can start dealing with the tax havens themselves then there's always a route which people can take. So we are trying to get international agreement.\"\u2022 Focusing on corporations that use tax havens. Barack Obama made clear during the US election campaign that the Cayman Islands is used by US corporations to avoid tax.Obama memorably said: \"There's a building in the Cayman Islands that houses supposedly 12,000 US-based corporations. That's either the biggest building in the world or the biggest tax scam in the world, and we know which one it is.\"But Britain and other leading countries are expected to proceed cautiously in any attempt to restrict the financial manoevring of corporations. Sources say it is important that everyone pays their fair share of tax but no country will want to damage the economic competitiveness of major companies.\u2022 Tightening the regulation of markets. Britain believes that billions of pounds in transactions take place between banks, such as credit default swaps, with no reporting mechanism, let alone regulation.The Guardian's series on tax avoidance theguardian.com/taxgap", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Gordon Brown", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Brown targets Switzerland in global tax haven crackdown"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:16:20Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Naked alpine ramblers have been warned to keep their clothes on this spring or face fines under new legislation introduced by Swiss authorities intended to clamp down on a growing pastime.The Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has said it will slap fines of 200 francs (\u00a3122) on holidaymakers going naked in the Alps.\"We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts,\" said Melchior Looser, the justice and police minister of the canton.He said that until now the naturist walkers \u2013 sometimes referred to as \"boot-only hikers\" \u2013 had been free to wander naked because there was no law to prevent them from doing so. The new law is expected to come into force on 9 February in time for the start of the hiking season.According to one naked hiker website, nacktwandern.de, the trend goes back to the start of the 20th century and has much to do with the new access it gives people to nature.\"Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature\", the site said. Some hikers even abandon footwear.A 58-year-old German lawyer and naked hiker called Dietmar, who declined to give his last name, said he was sad to hear of the Swiss changes. \"We simply try to tune into nature,\" he said. \"It's the most harmless pursuit possible.\"Looser said: \"The point is many children visit our mountains in the summer.\"Naked ramblers are drawn to Appenzell Innerrhoden \u2013 which is also famous for delaying giving women the vote until 1990 \u2013 by its beautiful landscape. Last year an internet campaign by a lobby group of hikers declared it to be a \"naked rambler paradise\", prompting a rush of visitors.The naturist movement in the German-speaking world \u2013 known as free body culture (FKK) \u2013 has traditionally flourished on beaches rather than in the mountains. According to a strict set of rules, beaches are divided into designated sections for nudists and non-nudists, with beach police patrolling the two to keep the peace.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Naked hikers face fines in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-13T19:17:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switerland's decision today to play by international tax rules is the result of a great deal of political arm-twisting, aided by the sting of scandal.The long struggle to persuade the Swiss to abandon their banking secrecy is not yet over. There is still plenty of room for foot-dragging and hair-splitting and it is likely to be several years before any information is actually exchanged. But today was important.In accepting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) principles for the exchange of information on tax, the Swiss finally abandoned their insistence on a single, all-important legal point: that tax evasion is not a crime unless it involves active fraud, such as the forgery of paperwork.They will continue to treat evasion by their own citizens as a civil matter but finally, for foreigners, they have agreed in principle to provide on request the details of wealthy individuals and corporations who have income originating in Switzerland.The Swiss moved primarily because they were faced with the deeply undesirable prospect of finding themselves on a blacklist of unco-operative tax havens, due to be announced at the G20 meeting in London in April.This was not simply a threat of being named and shamed but, as the Guardian revealed this month, of being subjected to serious economic sanctions designed to drive away billions of dollars of their banking business. Since Switzerland earns 15% of its GDP from the finance sector, this threat made an impression.In the background, Switzerland's political authority has been severely weakened by the US investigation into one of its oldest and most prestigious banks, UBS, which has been caught brazenly helping thousands of wealthy Americans evade taxes.UBS staff have also been breaking the US law that forbids foreign bankers to tout for business, writing lies on their visa forms about the purpose of their visits to the US, carrying business cards that concealed their true profession and deploying counter-surveillance techniques.Even so, Switzerland continued to resist, arguing it simply could not afford to change its ways because it would lose so much business to other havens. But in a cleverly worked piece of diplomacy the OECD has persuaded all its main competitors \u2013 Liechtenstein, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg \u2013 to announce over the past 48 hours that they too would agree to provide information on tax evaders.But this remains only one battle in a long war against tax dodgers. No information will be disclosed until the Swiss have negotiated detailed double-taxation agreements with other nations.That process could take several years. The Swiss are indicating they will hand over information only if a detailed request is submitted and if that request complies with their own procedures. They are also calling for a \"grandfather clause\" that would allow them to continue to conceal all information about accounts or investments made with them in the past. Since Swiss banks are believed to hold something like a third of the estimated $11.5tn of personal wealth hidden offshore, this would knock a very big hole in yesterday's announcement.One source suggested this was simply a PR gesture to persuade existing account holders to stay. Bruno Gurtner, the Swiss economist who chairs the global board of the Tax Justice Network, welcomed today's announcement but warned nothing would change until the new treaties were negotiated.\"In the meantime, people with accounts in Switzerland have the chance to move their money away to other havens that still do not accept the principles,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland starts slow retreat over banking secrecy and tax evasion"},{"date": "2009-02-19T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A worldwide crackdown on tax havens, from Switzerland to the Cayman Islands, will be spearheaded by Gordon Brown as the world's richest nations use the global economic downturn to close loopholes that are costing them hundreds of billions in lost revenues.As he embarks on a mini-tour of EU capitals in advance of the G20 summit in London in April, the prime minister announced yesterday that he was negotiating with fellow world leaders the terms of a tough regulatory system on tax and banking that will cover every country.Speaking at his monthly press conference in Downing Street, Brown said: \"We want the whole of the world to take action. That will mean action against regulatory and tax havens in parts of the world which have escaped the regulatory attention they need. The changes we make will have to apply to all jurisdictions around the world.\"The global crackdown envisaged by Brown follows the Guardian's special series, the Tax Gap, which highlighted the ways a range of Britain's biggest companies have employed secretive tax arrangements to reduce their liability. HM Revenue & Customs estimates that the size of the tax gap, which has seen companies shift ownership of brands to offshore tax havens, could be anything between \u00a33.7bn and \u00a313bn.The prime minister, who will meet the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, today in Rome before a mini-summit of the four EU leaders in the G20 in Berlin on Sunday, declined to be drawn on the specifics of his plan. But the Guardian understands that he is taking a particular interest in Switzerland, while Barack Obama singled out the Cayman Islands during the US presidential election campaign.The other members of the G7 - plus the 13 other slightly less affluent members who make up the G20 - lose similar amounts. This means that the world's main industrialised countries could be losing in excess of \u00a3100bn in tax revenues a year.The prime minister believes that significant progress will be made at the G20 summit, which he will chair, because world leaders have recognised that the downturn provides a strong opportunity to crack down on tax havens.\"I am more confident now, having talked to world leaders, that we are in a position to take further action on this matter,\" he said yesterday.Brown's plan will have three key elements:\u2022 Clamping down on individuals who avoid tax. It is in this area that he is focusing his attention on Switzerland.One senior British figure said that a lengthy EU campaign to rein in savers who attempt to avoid tax had eventually identified a trail leading to Switzerland. The source said: \"If you take the EU we had this long campaign to stop tax avoidance on savings. Basically you had Germans putting their money into Luxembourg or Austria to prevent them being taxed in Germany. So the EU decided to clamp down on it. But actually people went to Switzerland and to Lichtenstein. So unless you can start dealing with the tax havens themselves then there's always a route which people can take. So we are trying to get international agreement.\"\u2022 Focusing on corporations that use tax havens. Barack Obama made clear during the US election campaign that the Cayman Islands is used by US corporations to avoid tax.Obama memorably said: \"There's a building in the Cayman Islands that houses supposedly 12,000 US-based corporations. That's either the biggest building in the world or the biggest tax scam in the world, and we know which one it is.\"But Britain and other leading countries are expected to proceed cautiously in any attempt to restrict the financial manoevring of corporations. Sources say it is important that everyone pays their fair share of tax but no country will want to damage the economic competitiveness of major companies.\u2022 Tightening the regulation of markets. Britain believes that billions of pounds in transactions take place between banks, such as credit default swaps, with no reporting mechanism, let alone regulation.The Guardian's series on tax avoidance theguardian.com/taxgap", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Gordon Brown", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Brown targets Switzerland in global tax haven crackdown"},{"date": "2009-02-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is a major international financial centre doing substantial business with non-residents, just like London or New York, so I was alarmed by the negative image of the country sketched in your Tax Gap series (In the country where tax evasion is no crime, Swiss private banks are unrepentant about siphoning off other governments' income, 5 February).To say that \"tax evasion is no crime\" is not the full story. While it's true the Swiss do not believe a citizen should go to jail for tax evasion - such a drastic sanction is reserved for serious financial and other crimes - anyone suspected or discovered evading taxes in Switzerland actually goes through hell, and without all the procedural protections of the criminal justice system to boot. Back taxes, penalty taxes and other fines mean virtual confiscation of assets several times the evaded amount.Privacy is the default setting in our society, and our tax authorities have no right of forced entry into a bank account outside a criminal investigation. However, should the authorities become suspicious and turn on the spotlight, it's then up to the citizen to supply documentary evidence to clear their position. This approach, combined with the highest withholding tax rate in the world, encourages a very high degree of taxpayer honesty without having to make tax evasion a criminal offence, and without having to trample on privacy.Your report also stated: \"The Swiss openly assist not merely legal tax avoidance but also the deliberate concealment of wealth for the purpose of evading tax.\" This is not true. Swiss banks are forbidden to provide any active assistance with tax evasion, for example by providing incomplete or misleading attestations, and they are also forbidden to actively assist with capital flight - in other words, the transfer of capital from countries whose legislation restricts the investment of funds abroad.But the Tax Gap sketch of Switzerland's international position caused me greatest alarm. The impression given is of an impenetrable, uncooperative fortress and a banking industry that hisses and spits at every attempt to make it cooperate - \"they have refused to sign any tax information exchange agreement\", or \"they have refused to sign up to the EU savings directive\". In reality Switzerland has a dense network of bilateral, double-taxation treaties with some 70 countries that include provisions to exchange information in tax matters. Switzerland also helped the EU close a potential loophole in its savings tax directive by generously offering to impose equivalent measures. Thanks to Switzerland's cooperation with Brussels, EU taxpayers cannot circumvent the EU's directive simply by using a paying agent in Switzerland.Ultimately, however, chronic tax evasion is a symptom of illness in a state's relationship with its citizens. Critics of Switzerland would do well to study our tax model with a view to improving things in their own countries. The OECD has drawn attention to Switzerland's code of conduct for tax authorities, taxpayers and tax advisers as an example of how to promote what it calls an \"enhanced relationship\" between taxpayers and revenue bodies.\u2022 Urs Roth is chief executive officer of the Swiss Bankers Associationoffice@sba.ch", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Tax avoidance", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Response: Switzerland is not a haven for tax evaders"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:16:20Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Naked alpine ramblers have been warned to keep their clothes on this spring or face fines under new legislation introduced by Swiss authorities intended to clamp down on a growing pastime.The Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has said it will slap fines of 200 francs (\u00a3122) on holidaymakers going naked in the Alps.\"We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts,\" said Melchior Looser, the justice and police minister of the canton.He said that until now the naturist walkers \u2013 sometimes referred to as \"boot-only hikers\" \u2013 had been free to wander naked because there was no law to prevent them from doing so. The new law is expected to come into force on 9 February in time for the start of the hiking season.According to one naked hiker website, nacktwandern.de, the trend goes back to the start of the 20th century and has much to do with the new access it gives people to nature.\"Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature\", the site said. Some hikers even abandon footwear.A 58-year-old German lawyer and naked hiker called Dietmar, who declined to give his last name, said he was sad to hear of the Swiss changes. \"We simply try to tune into nature,\" he said. \"It's the most harmless pursuit possible.\"Looser said: \"The point is many children visit our mountains in the summer.\"Naked ramblers are drawn to Appenzell Innerrhoden \u2013 which is also famous for delaying giving women the vote until 1990 \u2013 by its beautiful landscape. Last year an internet campaign by a lobby group of hikers declared it to be a \"naked rambler paradise\", prompting a rush of visitors.The naturist movement in the German-speaking world \u2013 known as free body culture (FKK) \u2013 has traditionally flourished on beaches rather than in the mountains. According to a strict set of rules, beaches are divided into designated sections for nudists and non-nudists, with beach police patrolling the two to keep the peace.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Naked hikers face fines in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-13T19:17:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switerland's decision today to play by international tax rules is the result of a great deal of political arm-twisting, aided by the sting of scandal.The long struggle to persuade the Swiss to abandon their banking secrecy is not yet over. There is still plenty of room for foot-dragging and hair-splitting and it is likely to be several years before any information is actually exchanged. But today was important.In accepting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) principles for the exchange of information on tax, the Swiss finally abandoned their insistence on a single, all-important legal point: that tax evasion is not a crime unless it involves active fraud, such as the forgery of paperwork.They will continue to treat evasion by their own citizens as a civil matter but finally, for foreigners, they have agreed in principle to provide on request the details of wealthy individuals and corporations who have income originating in Switzerland.The Swiss moved primarily because they were faced with the deeply undesirable prospect of finding themselves on a blacklist of unco-operative tax havens, due to be announced at the G20 meeting in London in April.This was not simply a threat of being named and shamed but, as the Guardian revealed this month, of being subjected to serious economic sanctions designed to drive away billions of dollars of their banking business. Since Switzerland earns 15% of its GDP from the finance sector, this threat made an impression.In the background, Switzerland's political authority has been severely weakened by the US investigation into one of its oldest and most prestigious banks, UBS, which has been caught brazenly helping thousands of wealthy Americans evade taxes.UBS staff have also been breaking the US law that forbids foreign bankers to tout for business, writing lies on their visa forms about the purpose of their visits to the US, carrying business cards that concealed their true profession and deploying counter-surveillance techniques.Even so, Switzerland continued to resist, arguing it simply could not afford to change its ways because it would lose so much business to other havens. But in a cleverly worked piece of diplomacy the OECD has persuaded all its main competitors \u2013 Liechtenstein, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg \u2013 to announce over the past 48 hours that they too would agree to provide information on tax evaders.But this remains only one battle in a long war against tax dodgers. No information will be disclosed until the Swiss have negotiated detailed double-taxation agreements with other nations.That process could take several years. The Swiss are indicating they will hand over information only if a detailed request is submitted and if that request complies with their own procedures. They are also calling for a \"grandfather clause\" that would allow them to continue to conceal all information about accounts or investments made with them in the past. Since Swiss banks are believed to hold something like a third of the estimated $11.5tn of personal wealth hidden offshore, this would knock a very big hole in yesterday's announcement.One source suggested this was simply a PR gesture to persuade existing account holders to stay. Bruno Gurtner, the Swiss economist who chairs the global board of the Tax Justice Network, welcomed today's announcement but warned nothing would change until the new treaties were negotiated.\"In the meantime, people with accounts in Switzerland have the chance to move their money away to other havens that still do not accept the principles,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland starts slow retreat over banking secrecy and tax evasion"},{"date": "2009-02-19T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A worldwide crackdown on tax havens, from Switzerland to the Cayman Islands, will be spearheaded by Gordon Brown as the world's richest nations use the global economic downturn to close loopholes that are costing them hundreds of billions in lost revenues.As he embarks on a mini-tour of EU capitals in advance of the G20 summit in London in April, the prime minister announced yesterday that he was negotiating with fellow world leaders the terms of a tough regulatory system on tax and banking that will cover every country.Speaking at his monthly press conference in Downing Street, Brown said: \"We want the whole of the world to take action. That will mean action against regulatory and tax havens in parts of the world which have escaped the regulatory attention they need. The changes we make will have to apply to all jurisdictions around the world.\"The global crackdown envisaged by Brown follows the Guardian's special series, the Tax Gap, which highlighted the ways a range of Britain's biggest companies have employed secretive tax arrangements to reduce their liability. HM Revenue & Customs estimates that the size of the tax gap, which has seen companies shift ownership of brands to offshore tax havens, could be anything between \u00a33.7bn and \u00a313bn.The prime minister, who will meet the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, today in Rome before a mini-summit of the four EU leaders in the G20 in Berlin on Sunday, declined to be drawn on the specifics of his plan. But the Guardian understands that he is taking a particular interest in Switzerland, while Barack Obama singled out the Cayman Islands during the US presidential election campaign.The other members of the G7 - plus the 13 other slightly less affluent members who make up the G20 - lose similar amounts. This means that the world's main industrialised countries could be losing in excess of \u00a3100bn in tax revenues a year.The prime minister believes that significant progress will be made at the G20 summit, which he will chair, because world leaders have recognised that the downturn provides a strong opportunity to crack down on tax havens.\"I am more confident now, having talked to world leaders, that we are in a position to take further action on this matter,\" he said yesterday.Brown's plan will have three key elements:\u2022 Clamping down on individuals who avoid tax. It is in this area that he is focusing his attention on Switzerland.One senior British figure said that a lengthy EU campaign to rein in savers who attempt to avoid tax had eventually identified a trail leading to Switzerland. The source said: \"If you take the EU we had this long campaign to stop tax avoidance on savings. Basically you had Germans putting their money into Luxembourg or Austria to prevent them being taxed in Germany. So the EU decided to clamp down on it. But actually people went to Switzerland and to Lichtenstein. So unless you can start dealing with the tax havens themselves then there's always a route which people can take. So we are trying to get international agreement.\"\u2022 Focusing on corporations that use tax havens. Barack Obama made clear during the US election campaign that the Cayman Islands is used by US corporations to avoid tax.Obama memorably said: \"There's a building in the Cayman Islands that houses supposedly 12,000 US-based corporations. That's either the biggest building in the world or the biggest tax scam in the world, and we know which one it is.\"But Britain and other leading countries are expected to proceed cautiously in any attempt to restrict the financial manoevring of corporations. Sources say it is important that everyone pays their fair share of tax but no country will want to damage the economic competitiveness of major companies.\u2022 Tightening the regulation of markets. Britain believes that billions of pounds in transactions take place between banks, such as credit default swaps, with no reporting mechanism, let alone regulation.The Guardian's series on tax avoidance theguardian.com/taxgap", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Gordon Brown", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Brown targets Switzerland in global tax haven crackdown"},{"date": "2009-02-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is a major international financial centre doing substantial business with non-residents, just like London or New York, so I was alarmed by the negative image of the country sketched in your Tax Gap series (In the country where tax evasion is no crime, Swiss private banks are unrepentant about siphoning off other governments' income, 5 February).To say that \"tax evasion is no crime\" is not the full story. While it's true the Swiss do not believe a citizen should go to jail for tax evasion - such a drastic sanction is reserved for serious financial and other crimes - anyone suspected or discovered evading taxes in Switzerland actually goes through hell, and without all the procedural protections of the criminal justice system to boot. Back taxes, penalty taxes and other fines mean virtual confiscation of assets several times the evaded amount.Privacy is the default setting in our society, and our tax authorities have no right of forced entry into a bank account outside a criminal investigation. However, should the authorities become suspicious and turn on the spotlight, it's then up to the citizen to supply documentary evidence to clear their position. This approach, combined with the highest withholding tax rate in the world, encourages a very high degree of taxpayer honesty without having to make tax evasion a criminal offence, and without having to trample on privacy.Your report also stated: \"The Swiss openly assist not merely legal tax avoidance but also the deliberate concealment of wealth for the purpose of evading tax.\" This is not true. Swiss banks are forbidden to provide any active assistance with tax evasion, for example by providing incomplete or misleading attestations, and they are also forbidden to actively assist with capital flight - in other words, the transfer of capital from countries whose legislation restricts the investment of funds abroad.But the Tax Gap sketch of Switzerland's international position caused me greatest alarm. The impression given is of an impenetrable, uncooperative fortress and a banking industry that hisses and spits at every attempt to make it cooperate - \"they have refused to sign any tax information exchange agreement\", or \"they have refused to sign up to the EU savings directive\". In reality Switzerland has a dense network of bilateral, double-taxation treaties with some 70 countries that include provisions to exchange information in tax matters. Switzerland also helped the EU close a potential loophole in its savings tax directive by generously offering to impose equivalent measures. Thanks to Switzerland's cooperation with Brussels, EU taxpayers cannot circumvent the EU's directive simply by using a paying agent in Switzerland.Ultimately, however, chronic tax evasion is a symptom of illness in a state's relationship with its citizens. Critics of Switzerland would do well to study our tax model with a view to improving things in their own countries. The OECD has drawn attention to Switzerland's code of conduct for tax authorities, taxpayers and tax advisers as an example of how to promote what it calls an \"enhanced relationship\" between taxpayers and revenue bodies.\u2022 Urs Roth is chief executive officer of the Swiss Bankers Associationoffice@sba.ch", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Tax avoidance", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Response: Switzerland is not a haven for tax evaders"},{"date": "2009-01-19T12:15:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A Swiss lawyer working on behalf of the Iraqi journalist who threw shoes at the US president, George Bush, said today his client would seek political asylum in Switzerland.Geneva-based lawyer Mauro Poggia said Muntadhar al-Zeidi's life was in danger if he stayed in Iraq.Al-Zeidi has been detained in an Iraqi jail awaiting trial since he was seized by guards after his 14 December outburst at a joint news conference in Baghdad by Bush and the Iraqi prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki.\"He is in danger over there,\" Poggia told the Associated Press in a telephone interview. \"He's also in danger in other Muslim countries because people who support his action could try to make him a martyr.\"Al-Zeidi's act turned the employee of a minor TV station into a national hero to the many Iraqis who are fed up with America's six-year presence in the country. But concern has been raised about his safety after allegations that he had been severely beaten and tortured in detention.Poggia said any harm caused to al-Zeidi could trigger violent protests in Iraq.\"I think it's in the interest of the current Iraqi government that nothing happens to Mr al-Zeidi,\" he said.The lawyer said he was contacted earlier this month by al-Zeidi's relatives because of Switzerland's reputation as a safe, neutral country. Geneva is the seat of the Red Cross movement and the European headquarters of the United Nations.\"My client needs to make his request at the Swiss embassy in Baghdad when he is released,\" said Poggia. \"But we don't know when he will be able to do that because he still hasn't gone to trial.\"Al-Zeidi, 30, had been due to face a trial last month on a charge of assaulting a foreign leader, but the court date was postponed after his defence filed a motion to reduce the charges to simply insulting Bush.", "tags": ["Iraq", "George Bush", "US news", "Switzerland", "Media", "Associated Press", "Europe"], "title": "Iraqi journalist who threw shoes at Bush to seek asylum in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:16:20Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Naked alpine ramblers have been warned to keep their clothes on this spring or face fines under new legislation introduced by Swiss authorities intended to clamp down on a growing pastime.The Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has said it will slap fines of 200 francs (\u00a3122) on holidaymakers going naked in the Alps.\"We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts,\" said Melchior Looser, the justice and police minister of the canton.He said that until now the naturist walkers \u2013 sometimes referred to as \"boot-only hikers\" \u2013 had been free to wander naked because there was no law to prevent them from doing so. The new law is expected to come into force on 9 February in time for the start of the hiking season.According to one naked hiker website, nacktwandern.de, the trend goes back to the start of the 20th century and has much to do with the new access it gives people to nature.\"Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature\", the site said. Some hikers even abandon footwear.A 58-year-old German lawyer and naked hiker called Dietmar, who declined to give his last name, said he was sad to hear of the Swiss changes. \"We simply try to tune into nature,\" he said. \"It's the most harmless pursuit possible.\"Looser said: \"The point is many children visit our mountains in the summer.\"Naked ramblers are drawn to Appenzell Innerrhoden \u2013 which is also famous for delaying giving women the vote until 1990 \u2013 by its beautiful landscape. Last year an internet campaign by a lobby group of hikers declared it to be a \"naked rambler paradise\", prompting a rush of visitors.The naturist movement in the German-speaking world \u2013 known as free body culture (FKK) \u2013 has traditionally flourished on beaches rather than in the mountains. According to a strict set of rules, beaches are divided into designated sections for nudists and non-nudists, with beach police patrolling the two to keep the peace.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Naked hikers face fines in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-13T19:17:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switerland's decision today to play by international tax rules is the result of a great deal of political arm-twisting, aided by the sting of scandal.The long struggle to persuade the Swiss to abandon their banking secrecy is not yet over. There is still plenty of room for foot-dragging and hair-splitting and it is likely to be several years before any information is actually exchanged. But today was important.In accepting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) principles for the exchange of information on tax, the Swiss finally abandoned their insistence on a single, all-important legal point: that tax evasion is not a crime unless it involves active fraud, such as the forgery of paperwork.They will continue to treat evasion by their own citizens as a civil matter but finally, for foreigners, they have agreed in principle to provide on request the details of wealthy individuals and corporations who have income originating in Switzerland.The Swiss moved primarily because they were faced with the deeply undesirable prospect of finding themselves on a blacklist of unco-operative tax havens, due to be announced at the G20 meeting in London in April.This was not simply a threat of being named and shamed but, as the Guardian revealed this month, of being subjected to serious economic sanctions designed to drive away billions of dollars of their banking business. Since Switzerland earns 15% of its GDP from the finance sector, this threat made an impression.In the background, Switzerland's political authority has been severely weakened by the US investigation into one of its oldest and most prestigious banks, UBS, which has been caught brazenly helping thousands of wealthy Americans evade taxes.UBS staff have also been breaking the US law that forbids foreign bankers to tout for business, writing lies on their visa forms about the purpose of their visits to the US, carrying business cards that concealed their true profession and deploying counter-surveillance techniques.Even so, Switzerland continued to resist, arguing it simply could not afford to change its ways because it would lose so much business to other havens. But in a cleverly worked piece of diplomacy the OECD has persuaded all its main competitors \u2013 Liechtenstein, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg \u2013 to announce over the past 48 hours that they too would agree to provide information on tax evaders.But this remains only one battle in a long war against tax dodgers. No information will be disclosed until the Swiss have negotiated detailed double-taxation agreements with other nations.That process could take several years. The Swiss are indicating they will hand over information only if a detailed request is submitted and if that request complies with their own procedures. They are also calling for a \"grandfather clause\" that would allow them to continue to conceal all information about accounts or investments made with them in the past. Since Swiss banks are believed to hold something like a third of the estimated $11.5tn of personal wealth hidden offshore, this would knock a very big hole in yesterday's announcement.One source suggested this was simply a PR gesture to persuade existing account holders to stay. Bruno Gurtner, the Swiss economist who chairs the global board of the Tax Justice Network, welcomed today's announcement but warned nothing would change until the new treaties were negotiated.\"In the meantime, people with accounts in Switzerland have the chance to move their money away to other havens that still do not accept the principles,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland starts slow retreat over banking secrecy and tax evasion"},{"date": "2009-02-19T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A worldwide crackdown on tax havens, from Switzerland to the Cayman Islands, will be spearheaded by Gordon Brown as the world's richest nations use the global economic downturn to close loopholes that are costing them hundreds of billions in lost revenues.As he embarks on a mini-tour of EU capitals in advance of the G20 summit in London in April, the prime minister announced yesterday that he was negotiating with fellow world leaders the terms of a tough regulatory system on tax and banking that will cover every country.Speaking at his monthly press conference in Downing Street, Brown said: \"We want the whole of the world to take action. That will mean action against regulatory and tax havens in parts of the world which have escaped the regulatory attention they need. The changes we make will have to apply to all jurisdictions around the world.\"The global crackdown envisaged by Brown follows the Guardian's special series, the Tax Gap, which highlighted the ways a range of Britain's biggest companies have employed secretive tax arrangements to reduce their liability. HM Revenue & Customs estimates that the size of the tax gap, which has seen companies shift ownership of brands to offshore tax havens, could be anything between \u00a33.7bn and \u00a313bn.The prime minister, who will meet the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, today in Rome before a mini-summit of the four EU leaders in the G20 in Berlin on Sunday, declined to be drawn on the specifics of his plan. But the Guardian understands that he is taking a particular interest in Switzerland, while Barack Obama singled out the Cayman Islands during the US presidential election campaign.The other members of the G7 - plus the 13 other slightly less affluent members who make up the G20 - lose similar amounts. This means that the world's main industrialised countries could be losing in excess of \u00a3100bn in tax revenues a year.The prime minister believes that significant progress will be made at the G20 summit, which he will chair, because world leaders have recognised that the downturn provides a strong opportunity to crack down on tax havens.\"I am more confident now, having talked to world leaders, that we are in a position to take further action on this matter,\" he said yesterday.Brown's plan will have three key elements:\u2022 Clamping down on individuals who avoid tax. It is in this area that he is focusing his attention on Switzerland.One senior British figure said that a lengthy EU campaign to rein in savers who attempt to avoid tax had eventually identified a trail leading to Switzerland. The source said: \"If you take the EU we had this long campaign to stop tax avoidance on savings. Basically you had Germans putting their money into Luxembourg or Austria to prevent them being taxed in Germany. So the EU decided to clamp down on it. But actually people went to Switzerland and to Lichtenstein. So unless you can start dealing with the tax havens themselves then there's always a route which people can take. So we are trying to get international agreement.\"\u2022 Focusing on corporations that use tax havens. Barack Obama made clear during the US election campaign that the Cayman Islands is used by US corporations to avoid tax.Obama memorably said: \"There's a building in the Cayman Islands that houses supposedly 12,000 US-based corporations. That's either the biggest building in the world or the biggest tax scam in the world, and we know which one it is.\"But Britain and other leading countries are expected to proceed cautiously in any attempt to restrict the financial manoevring of corporations. Sources say it is important that everyone pays their fair share of tax but no country will want to damage the economic competitiveness of major companies.\u2022 Tightening the regulation of markets. Britain believes that billions of pounds in transactions take place between banks, such as credit default swaps, with no reporting mechanism, let alone regulation.The Guardian's series on tax avoidance theguardian.com/taxgap", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Gordon Brown", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Brown targets Switzerland in global tax haven crackdown"},{"date": "2009-02-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is a major international financial centre doing substantial business with non-residents, just like London or New York, so I was alarmed by the negative image of the country sketched in your Tax Gap series (In the country where tax evasion is no crime, Swiss private banks are unrepentant about siphoning off other governments' income, 5 February).To say that \"tax evasion is no crime\" is not the full story. While it's true the Swiss do not believe a citizen should go to jail for tax evasion - such a drastic sanction is reserved for serious financial and other crimes - anyone suspected or discovered evading taxes in Switzerland actually goes through hell, and without all the procedural protections of the criminal justice system to boot. Back taxes, penalty taxes and other fines mean virtual confiscation of assets several times the evaded amount.Privacy is the default setting in our society, and our tax authorities have no right of forced entry into a bank account outside a criminal investigation. However, should the authorities become suspicious and turn on the spotlight, it's then up to the citizen to supply documentary evidence to clear their position. This approach, combined with the highest withholding tax rate in the world, encourages a very high degree of taxpayer honesty without having to make tax evasion a criminal offence, and without having to trample on privacy.Your report also stated: \"The Swiss openly assist not merely legal tax avoidance but also the deliberate concealment of wealth for the purpose of evading tax.\" This is not true. Swiss banks are forbidden to provide any active assistance with tax evasion, for example by providing incomplete or misleading attestations, and they are also forbidden to actively assist with capital flight - in other words, the transfer of capital from countries whose legislation restricts the investment of funds abroad.But the Tax Gap sketch of Switzerland's international position caused me greatest alarm. The impression given is of an impenetrable, uncooperative fortress and a banking industry that hisses and spits at every attempt to make it cooperate - \"they have refused to sign any tax information exchange agreement\", or \"they have refused to sign up to the EU savings directive\". In reality Switzerland has a dense network of bilateral, double-taxation treaties with some 70 countries that include provisions to exchange information in tax matters. Switzerland also helped the EU close a potential loophole in its savings tax directive by generously offering to impose equivalent measures. Thanks to Switzerland's cooperation with Brussels, EU taxpayers cannot circumvent the EU's directive simply by using a paying agent in Switzerland.Ultimately, however, chronic tax evasion is a symptom of illness in a state's relationship with its citizens. Critics of Switzerland would do well to study our tax model with a view to improving things in their own countries. The OECD has drawn attention to Switzerland's code of conduct for tax authorities, taxpayers and tax advisers as an example of how to promote what it calls an \"enhanced relationship\" between taxpayers and revenue bodies.\u2022 Urs Roth is chief executive officer of the Swiss Bankers Associationoffice@sba.ch", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Tax avoidance", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Response: Switzerland is not a haven for tax evaders"},{"date": "2009-01-19T12:15:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A Swiss lawyer working on behalf of the Iraqi journalist who threw shoes at the US president, George Bush, said today his client would seek political asylum in Switzerland.Geneva-based lawyer Mauro Poggia said Muntadhar al-Zeidi's life was in danger if he stayed in Iraq.Al-Zeidi has been detained in an Iraqi jail awaiting trial since he was seized by guards after his 14 December outburst at a joint news conference in Baghdad by Bush and the Iraqi prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki.\"He is in danger over there,\" Poggia told the Associated Press in a telephone interview. \"He's also in danger in other Muslim countries because people who support his action could try to make him a martyr.\"Al-Zeidi's act turned the employee of a minor TV station into a national hero to the many Iraqis who are fed up with America's six-year presence in the country. But concern has been raised about his safety after allegations that he had been severely beaten and tortured in detention.Poggia said any harm caused to al-Zeidi could trigger violent protests in Iraq.\"I think it's in the interest of the current Iraqi government that nothing happens to Mr al-Zeidi,\" he said.The lawyer said he was contacted earlier this month by al-Zeidi's relatives because of Switzerland's reputation as a safe, neutral country. Geneva is the seat of the Red Cross movement and the European headquarters of the United Nations.\"My client needs to make his request at the Swiss embassy in Baghdad when he is released,\" said Poggia. \"But we don't know when he will be able to do that because he still hasn't gone to trial.\"Al-Zeidi, 30, had been due to face a trial last month on a charge of assaulting a foreign leader, but the court date was postponed after his defence filed a motion to reduce the charges to simply insulting Bush.", "tags": ["Iraq", "George Bush", "US news", "Switzerland", "Media", "Associated Press", "Europe"], "title": "Iraqi journalist who threw shoes at Bush to seek asylum in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-14T00:56:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Gordon Brown last night hailed the \u00adbeginning of the end for tax havens, as Switzerland opened up its \u00adlegendary system of bank secrecy and agreed to hand over information on wealthy clients suspected of tax evasion.The move, described as historic by anti-poverty campaigners, came as \u00adinternational pressure, including action from Brown and Barack Obama, forced the world's tax havens to hand over previously undisclosed data on account holders.In a remarkable week, Europe's secrecy jurisdictions \u2013 Liechtenstein, Andorra, Austria, Luxembourg, Jersey and \u00adSwitzerland \u2013 all entered into international information sharing agreements.Swiss ministers said the government caved in after learning the country was going to be included this month on a \u00adblacklist of uncooperative tax havens drawn up by the Organisation for \u00adEconomic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Having agreed to sign up to the OECD protocol on tax, Switzerland will hand over information on account \u00adholders suspected of tax evasion by another country.Until now tax evasion was not illegal in Switzerland and secrecy has been the bedrock of its economy.Hans-Rudolf Merz, Swiss president and finance minister, said yesterday: \"Co-operation on taxes has become more important given the globalisation of \u00adfinancial markets and in particular against the background of the financial crisis.\"Switzerland is the world's biggest tax haven. The world's rich hide at least $1.89 tn (\u00a31.35tn) of the estimated $7trn of \u00adprivate wealth there according to the Swiss Bankers Association, though others put the figure much higher.Dr Andreas Missbach, joint managing director of Swiss anti-poverty campaign group Berne Declaration, said: \"This is a major and historic first step. We have reason to celebrate but we still demand automatic exchange of information to address profound global economic imbalances.\"The world's tax havens have been \u00adrattled by a series of events that have forced them to come into the open.The Guardian has run a series of articles in its Tax Gap investigation detailing how some British companies use such havens to pay less tax to the UK treasury.The global banking collapse revealed that many of the most complex debt instruments were based in offshore \u00adcentres such as Jersey.Obama has made cracking down on secretive jurisdictions central to his \u00adeconomic justice programme. \u00adThe fresh concessions by tax havens will not lead to full disclosure of the true \u00adbeneficiaries of the complicated maze of sham trusts designed to confuse \u00adinternational tax authorities.Campaign groups from all over Europe marched through Jersey's capital, St Helier yesterday. In a statement the aid groups demanded \"a systemic change \u2026 to allow developing countries to get hold of the information they need \u2026 so they can stop the tax evasion\".The extent to which companies and individuals are using overseas tax havens to legally dodge tax has been exposed in the \u00adTax Gap series. The investigation found that Royal Bank of Scotland used a series of schemes to avoid paying \u00a3500m to British and US revenues.Many other FTSE-listed companies have also used complex financial structures to cut their tax liabilities to the British Treasury.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Banking", "Tax", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland signs up to tax-evasion fight"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:16:20Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Naked alpine ramblers have been warned to keep their clothes on this spring or face fines under new legislation introduced by Swiss authorities intended to clamp down on a growing pastime.The Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has said it will slap fines of 200 francs (\u00a3122) on holidaymakers going naked in the Alps.\"We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts,\" said Melchior Looser, the justice and police minister of the canton.He said that until now the naturist walkers \u2013 sometimes referred to as \"boot-only hikers\" \u2013 had been free to wander naked because there was no law to prevent them from doing so. The new law is expected to come into force on 9 February in time for the start of the hiking season.According to one naked hiker website, nacktwandern.de, the trend goes back to the start of the 20th century and has much to do with the new access it gives people to nature.\"Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature\", the site said. Some hikers even abandon footwear.A 58-year-old German lawyer and naked hiker called Dietmar, who declined to give his last name, said he was sad to hear of the Swiss changes. \"We simply try to tune into nature,\" he said. \"It's the most harmless pursuit possible.\"Looser said: \"The point is many children visit our mountains in the summer.\"Naked ramblers are drawn to Appenzell Innerrhoden \u2013 which is also famous for delaying giving women the vote until 1990 \u2013 by its beautiful landscape. Last year an internet campaign by a lobby group of hikers declared it to be a \"naked rambler paradise\", prompting a rush of visitors.The naturist movement in the German-speaking world \u2013 known as free body culture (FKK) \u2013 has traditionally flourished on beaches rather than in the mountains. According to a strict set of rules, beaches are divided into designated sections for nudists and non-nudists, with beach police patrolling the two to keep the peace.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Naked hikers face fines in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-13T19:17:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switerland's decision today to play by international tax rules is the result of a great deal of political arm-twisting, aided by the sting of scandal.The long struggle to persuade the Swiss to abandon their banking secrecy is not yet over. There is still plenty of room for foot-dragging and hair-splitting and it is likely to be several years before any information is actually exchanged. But today was important.In accepting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) principles for the exchange of information on tax, the Swiss finally abandoned their insistence on a single, all-important legal point: that tax evasion is not a crime unless it involves active fraud, such as the forgery of paperwork.They will continue to treat evasion by their own citizens as a civil matter but finally, for foreigners, they have agreed in principle to provide on request the details of wealthy individuals and corporations who have income originating in Switzerland.The Swiss moved primarily because they were faced with the deeply undesirable prospect of finding themselves on a blacklist of unco-operative tax havens, due to be announced at the G20 meeting in London in April.This was not simply a threat of being named and shamed but, as the Guardian revealed this month, of being subjected to serious economic sanctions designed to drive away billions of dollars of their banking business. Since Switzerland earns 15% of its GDP from the finance sector, this threat made an impression.In the background, Switzerland's political authority has been severely weakened by the US investigation into one of its oldest and most prestigious banks, UBS, which has been caught brazenly helping thousands of wealthy Americans evade taxes.UBS staff have also been breaking the US law that forbids foreign bankers to tout for business, writing lies on their visa forms about the purpose of their visits to the US, carrying business cards that concealed their true profession and deploying counter-surveillance techniques.Even so, Switzerland continued to resist, arguing it simply could not afford to change its ways because it would lose so much business to other havens. But in a cleverly worked piece of diplomacy the OECD has persuaded all its main competitors \u2013 Liechtenstein, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg \u2013 to announce over the past 48 hours that they too would agree to provide information on tax evaders.But this remains only one battle in a long war against tax dodgers. No information will be disclosed until the Swiss have negotiated detailed double-taxation agreements with other nations.That process could take several years. The Swiss are indicating they will hand over information only if a detailed request is submitted and if that request complies with their own procedures. They are also calling for a \"grandfather clause\" that would allow them to continue to conceal all information about accounts or investments made with them in the past. Since Swiss banks are believed to hold something like a third of the estimated $11.5tn of personal wealth hidden offshore, this would knock a very big hole in yesterday's announcement.One source suggested this was simply a PR gesture to persuade existing account holders to stay. Bruno Gurtner, the Swiss economist who chairs the global board of the Tax Justice Network, welcomed today's announcement but warned nothing would change until the new treaties were negotiated.\"In the meantime, people with accounts in Switzerland have the chance to move their money away to other havens that still do not accept the principles,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland starts slow retreat over banking secrecy and tax evasion"},{"date": "2009-02-19T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A worldwide crackdown on tax havens, from Switzerland to the Cayman Islands, will be spearheaded by Gordon Brown as the world's richest nations use the global economic downturn to close loopholes that are costing them hundreds of billions in lost revenues.As he embarks on a mini-tour of EU capitals in advance of the G20 summit in London in April, the prime minister announced yesterday that he was negotiating with fellow world leaders the terms of a tough regulatory system on tax and banking that will cover every country.Speaking at his monthly press conference in Downing Street, Brown said: \"We want the whole of the world to take action. That will mean action against regulatory and tax havens in parts of the world which have escaped the regulatory attention they need. The changes we make will have to apply to all jurisdictions around the world.\"The global crackdown envisaged by Brown follows the Guardian's special series, the Tax Gap, which highlighted the ways a range of Britain's biggest companies have employed secretive tax arrangements to reduce their liability. HM Revenue & Customs estimates that the size of the tax gap, which has seen companies shift ownership of brands to offshore tax havens, could be anything between \u00a33.7bn and \u00a313bn.The prime minister, who will meet the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, today in Rome before a mini-summit of the four EU leaders in the G20 in Berlin on Sunday, declined to be drawn on the specifics of his plan. But the Guardian understands that he is taking a particular interest in Switzerland, while Barack Obama singled out the Cayman Islands during the US presidential election campaign.The other members of the G7 - plus the 13 other slightly less affluent members who make up the G20 - lose similar amounts. This means that the world's main industrialised countries could be losing in excess of \u00a3100bn in tax revenues a year.The prime minister believes that significant progress will be made at the G20 summit, which he will chair, because world leaders have recognised that the downturn provides a strong opportunity to crack down on tax havens.\"I am more confident now, having talked to world leaders, that we are in a position to take further action on this matter,\" he said yesterday.Brown's plan will have three key elements:\u2022 Clamping down on individuals who avoid tax. It is in this area that he is focusing his attention on Switzerland.One senior British figure said that a lengthy EU campaign to rein in savers who attempt to avoid tax had eventually identified a trail leading to Switzerland. The source said: \"If you take the EU we had this long campaign to stop tax avoidance on savings. Basically you had Germans putting their money into Luxembourg or Austria to prevent them being taxed in Germany. So the EU decided to clamp down on it. But actually people went to Switzerland and to Lichtenstein. So unless you can start dealing with the tax havens themselves then there's always a route which people can take. So we are trying to get international agreement.\"\u2022 Focusing on corporations that use tax havens. Barack Obama made clear during the US election campaign that the Cayman Islands is used by US corporations to avoid tax.Obama memorably said: \"There's a building in the Cayman Islands that houses supposedly 12,000 US-based corporations. That's either the biggest building in the world or the biggest tax scam in the world, and we know which one it is.\"But Britain and other leading countries are expected to proceed cautiously in any attempt to restrict the financial manoevring of corporations. Sources say it is important that everyone pays their fair share of tax but no country will want to damage the economic competitiveness of major companies.\u2022 Tightening the regulation of markets. Britain believes that billions of pounds in transactions take place between banks, such as credit default swaps, with no reporting mechanism, let alone regulation.The Guardian's series on tax avoidance theguardian.com/taxgap", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Gordon Brown", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Brown targets Switzerland in global tax haven crackdown"},{"date": "2009-02-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is a major international financial centre doing substantial business with non-residents, just like London or New York, so I was alarmed by the negative image of the country sketched in your Tax Gap series (In the country where tax evasion is no crime, Swiss private banks are unrepentant about siphoning off other governments' income, 5 February).To say that \"tax evasion is no crime\" is not the full story. While it's true the Swiss do not believe a citizen should go to jail for tax evasion - such a drastic sanction is reserved for serious financial and other crimes - anyone suspected or discovered evading taxes in Switzerland actually goes through hell, and without all the procedural protections of the criminal justice system to boot. Back taxes, penalty taxes and other fines mean virtual confiscation of assets several times the evaded amount.Privacy is the default setting in our society, and our tax authorities have no right of forced entry into a bank account outside a criminal investigation. However, should the authorities become suspicious and turn on the spotlight, it's then up to the citizen to supply documentary evidence to clear their position. This approach, combined with the highest withholding tax rate in the world, encourages a very high degree of taxpayer honesty without having to make tax evasion a criminal offence, and without having to trample on privacy.Your report also stated: \"The Swiss openly assist not merely legal tax avoidance but also the deliberate concealment of wealth for the purpose of evading tax.\" This is not true. Swiss banks are forbidden to provide any active assistance with tax evasion, for example by providing incomplete or misleading attestations, and they are also forbidden to actively assist with capital flight - in other words, the transfer of capital from countries whose legislation restricts the investment of funds abroad.But the Tax Gap sketch of Switzerland's international position caused me greatest alarm. The impression given is of an impenetrable, uncooperative fortress and a banking industry that hisses and spits at every attempt to make it cooperate - \"they have refused to sign any tax information exchange agreement\", or \"they have refused to sign up to the EU savings directive\". In reality Switzerland has a dense network of bilateral, double-taxation treaties with some 70 countries that include provisions to exchange information in tax matters. Switzerland also helped the EU close a potential loophole in its savings tax directive by generously offering to impose equivalent measures. Thanks to Switzerland's cooperation with Brussels, EU taxpayers cannot circumvent the EU's directive simply by using a paying agent in Switzerland.Ultimately, however, chronic tax evasion is a symptom of illness in a state's relationship with its citizens. Critics of Switzerland would do well to study our tax model with a view to improving things in their own countries. The OECD has drawn attention to Switzerland's code of conduct for tax authorities, taxpayers and tax advisers as an example of how to promote what it calls an \"enhanced relationship\" between taxpayers and revenue bodies.\u2022 Urs Roth is chief executive officer of the Swiss Bankers Associationoffice@sba.ch", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Tax avoidance", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Response: Switzerland is not a haven for tax evaders"},{"date": "2009-01-19T12:15:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A Swiss lawyer working on behalf of the Iraqi journalist who threw shoes at the US president, George Bush, said today his client would seek political asylum in Switzerland.Geneva-based lawyer Mauro Poggia said Muntadhar al-Zeidi's life was in danger if he stayed in Iraq.Al-Zeidi has been detained in an Iraqi jail awaiting trial since he was seized by guards after his 14 December outburst at a joint news conference in Baghdad by Bush and the Iraqi prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki.\"He is in danger over there,\" Poggia told the Associated Press in a telephone interview. \"He's also in danger in other Muslim countries because people who support his action could try to make him a martyr.\"Al-Zeidi's act turned the employee of a minor TV station into a national hero to the many Iraqis who are fed up with America's six-year presence in the country. But concern has been raised about his safety after allegations that he had been severely beaten and tortured in detention.Poggia said any harm caused to al-Zeidi could trigger violent protests in Iraq.\"I think it's in the interest of the current Iraqi government that nothing happens to Mr al-Zeidi,\" he said.The lawyer said he was contacted earlier this month by al-Zeidi's relatives because of Switzerland's reputation as a safe, neutral country. Geneva is the seat of the Red Cross movement and the European headquarters of the United Nations.\"My client needs to make his request at the Swiss embassy in Baghdad when he is released,\" said Poggia. \"But we don't know when he will be able to do that because he still hasn't gone to trial.\"Al-Zeidi, 30, had been due to face a trial last month on a charge of assaulting a foreign leader, but the court date was postponed after his defence filed a motion to reduce the charges to simply insulting Bush.", "tags": ["Iraq", "George Bush", "US news", "Switzerland", "Media", "Associated Press", "Europe"], "title": "Iraqi journalist who threw shoes at Bush to seek asylum in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-14T00:56:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Gordon Brown last night hailed the \u00adbeginning of the end for tax havens, as Switzerland opened up its \u00adlegendary system of bank secrecy and agreed to hand over information on wealthy clients suspected of tax evasion.The move, described as historic by anti-poverty campaigners, came as \u00adinternational pressure, including action from Brown and Barack Obama, forced the world's tax havens to hand over previously undisclosed data on account holders.In a remarkable week, Europe's secrecy jurisdictions \u2013 Liechtenstein, Andorra, Austria, Luxembourg, Jersey and \u00adSwitzerland \u2013 all entered into international information sharing agreements.Swiss ministers said the government caved in after learning the country was going to be included this month on a \u00adblacklist of uncooperative tax havens drawn up by the Organisation for \u00adEconomic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Having agreed to sign up to the OECD protocol on tax, Switzerland will hand over information on account \u00adholders suspected of tax evasion by another country.Until now tax evasion was not illegal in Switzerland and secrecy has been the bedrock of its economy.Hans-Rudolf Merz, Swiss president and finance minister, said yesterday: \"Co-operation on taxes has become more important given the globalisation of \u00adfinancial markets and in particular against the background of the financial crisis.\"Switzerland is the world's biggest tax haven. The world's rich hide at least $1.89 tn (\u00a31.35tn) of the estimated $7trn of \u00adprivate wealth there according to the Swiss Bankers Association, though others put the figure much higher.Dr Andreas Missbach, joint managing director of Swiss anti-poverty campaign group Berne Declaration, said: \"This is a major and historic first step. We have reason to celebrate but we still demand automatic exchange of information to address profound global economic imbalances.\"The world's tax havens have been \u00adrattled by a series of events that have forced them to come into the open.The Guardian has run a series of articles in its Tax Gap investigation detailing how some British companies use such havens to pay less tax to the UK treasury.The global banking collapse revealed that many of the most complex debt instruments were based in offshore \u00adcentres such as Jersey.Obama has made cracking down on secretive jurisdictions central to his \u00adeconomic justice programme. \u00adThe fresh concessions by tax havens will not lead to full disclosure of the true \u00adbeneficiaries of the complicated maze of sham trusts designed to confuse \u00adinternational tax authorities.Campaign groups from all over Europe marched through Jersey's capital, St Helier yesterday. In a statement the aid groups demanded \"a systemic change \u2026 to allow developing countries to get hold of the information they need \u2026 so they can stop the tax evasion\".The extent to which companies and individuals are using overseas tax havens to legally dodge tax has been exposed in the \u00adTax Gap series. The investigation found that Royal Bank of Scotland used a series of schemes to avoid paying \u00a3500m to British and US revenues.Many other FTSE-listed companies have also used complex financial structures to cut their tax liabilities to the British Treasury.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Banking", "Tax", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland signs up to tax-evasion fight"},{"date": "2009-02-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Looking up and across the mountain from the window of Engelberg's Titlis-St\u00fcbli bubble lift as it took us up out of the grey gloom and into the bright blue, sunny yonder, I was properly cheered to notice that a great deal of time and effort had been put into carving a heartfelt message in the snow adjacent to the scary-looking ski-jump facility.\"Well Done Dominique!\" it said in 8ft letters, penned, I guessed, by a tenacious, youthful committee of off-piste sign-writers using a combination of shovels, up-ended skis and poles. Dominique Gisin, an Engelberg local, had just won first place in a big downhill race, and the community was celebrating the achievement by writing her name large in an area of snow that faced the town square and was floodlit at night. Ah, I thought to myself as I headed onwards and upwards. That's nice. Later that same day, during another spectacular cable-car ride on the other side of the mountain, I looked down into the disappearing valley and couldn't help noticing a different but equally outstanding example of opportunist snow-graffiti. On a large piece of flat land, just by the lift station, broad and wide enough to be a small car park, some aspirant Alpine Keith Haring had etched a massive representation of the male reproductive organ into the frozen white. Complete with what I had to admit was a pretty good attempt at pubic hair. Ah, I thought. Now I get this place.Engelberg, you see, is that kind of winter resort: a wholesome, unaffected town of downhill demons and benign hooligans. A young, fun place that plays hard and skis even harder, In Engelberg (population just 400) the local heroes are ski bums, ski jumpers, slalom and Super-G specialists, medal winners and nascent champions - not obnoxiously flash types spraying champagne. This is not oligarch-centric Courchevel or ostentatious Verbier. Engelberg (it means \"Angel Mountain\" by the way) is not buttoned up and grimly formal like nearby St Moritz. Nor is it the family-orientated, all-can-do resort of, say, Les Deux Alpes (families and apathetic sorts will probably be put off by the town's slightly awkward, inconvenient layout that means there's a two-minute shuttle bus ride or a 15-minute hike to the main lift station every morning) and it doesn't bray with sturdy, blonde Tanias and tanked-up, ruddy-faced Henrys like Val d'Is\u00e8re. The agenda here is: get up early, ski all day, eat well and then party until you fall over. Repeat for seven days or a long weekend. Yes, getting up the mountain can be a bit of a kerfuffle (there seemed to be a lot of transferring, staircases, lift-pass interludes), but once you're at the top of the 10,000-feet-high Titlis glacier, the skiing is pretty decent with a total of 82km of pisted runs - 30% per cent beginner slopes, 60% for intermediates and 10% for advanced nutters. At more than 6,000 feet down and eight miles long, one sequence of runs claims to be among the longest vertical drops in Switzerland. If you have blue skies and soft afternoon snow like we did, clattering down from the very top of the hill into the village is a truly glorious experience.On day two, accompanied by a guide, we did the spectacular Galtiberg off-piste run (a must for any intermediate or better visitor) and had it all - magnificent ice falls, untracked powder fields, thrillingly precarious tree skiing and a dinky little train ride at the end - to ourselves. Along for the ride that day was Niklas M\u00f6ller, the 28-year-old Swedish-born hotelier behind Engelberg's newest hostelry, called simply Ski Lodge Engelberg. Niklas recognised the resort's niche appeal and saw a potential gap in the market for its unpretentious but upbeat demographic when he first came to the town as a student aged 18. He had skied all over Europe in the toniest, most upmarket destinations, but something about this monastery town with its cheese factory and gimmicky cable car system touched a nerve. Niklas loved the train journey from Zurich - change at Lucerne on to the cute Stans-Engelberg railway, which lurches into a comically extreme gradient on its final few kilometres - and relished the skiing and the fact that Engelberg eschewed package tours and groups, preferring to enjoy something of a best-kept-secret reputation among the winter sports cognoscenti. (Although it has long been highly regarded by the Swiss). In fact, Niklas liked the place so much that he deferred his studies for a term and put in a season as a ski bum. After graduating he went into finance, working for a private equity outfit in London, but a decade on, cannily quit his job (just as the markets were starting to look dodgy) and, in 2007, teaming up with two Swedish partners, secured the lease on the hotel next to the Engelberg railway station. The young, ambitious team - Niklas, Carl-Johan, Jenny and Johan - set about simplifying, uncluttering, de-Tyrolising the d\u00e9cor, smartening up bedrooms, adding a hot tub and a sauna (they are Swedish, remember) putting in a funky bar and establishing a contemporary feel to the dining. After the first overbooked season, the hotel grew to include an adjacent property, a further 40 beds and a quaint, hexagonal glass house in the garden where you can enjoy a private dinner. Now the Swedes are looking for similarly low-key ski destinations where they can open further Ski Lodge hotels and, very subtly, turn their concept into a brand. \"We wanted to create an atmosphere where, say, a 45-year-old guy who might have been a ski bum once in his life but now has a desk job, a family and a mortgage, can come and stay for a week and behave a little bit like a ski bum again,\" explains Niklas. (A ski bum eating very nice food and sleeping on nice plain white, freshly changed bed linen every day, that is.) They've done a good job. Ski Lodge Engelberg is a basic, inoffensively trendy, clean and fresh place with a wholesome, energetic ambience. Staff are young, bright-eyed, wind tanned sorts and, right down to the bus boys and chambermaids, all excellent skiers who will take great delight in telling you where all the freshest dumps of powder are located on the mountain.I have to report that the food is really excellent; no chalet-girl stodge here. This is the sort of modern, pan-European grub you'd order in, say a fashionable Shoreditch eaterie or a Stockholm gastro pub. During a three-night stay we ate our evening meals at the hotel twice, and despite the fact that it operated under the dubious sobriquet \"Rukas - kick-ass restaurant\" it was very good; veal with porcini baked onions and cream, mussels with leeks and dried local ham washed down with local monastery-brewed beer. Here are some more unusual things about Engelberg: locals claim that spring skiing goes on almost until summer. Because the town is at an altitude of 1,000m, and is the first large mountain range the weather systems hit when they come in from the north-west, it gets snowed on a lot. Heavy falls, which usually start in November, typically continue until the end of April.In the Spindle nightclub, Engelberg claims to have the oldest disco in Switzerland (and from what I could hear, the oldest playlist to match). Visitors looking for some peace, meanwhile, can find remote, novelty accommodation high up at Tr\u00fcbsee Lake where the Iglu hotel, a labyrinthine series of large domes constructed from hard-packed snow, offers hardy, experimental overnighters a bar (try the white gluwein) a fondue restaurant, a tabernacle (for mountain-top weddings), a hot tub and several lamb skin-upholstered bedrooms. I had a look around, and while finding the concept amusing I was very happy to be heading back to the hot bath and flatscreen telly in my room down in the resort. And how about this? As far as I know, Engelberg is the only ski resort in Switzerland - and maybe the Alps - that has provided the backdrop for a Bollywood movie. I'm presuming that the Indian movie industry chose Engelberg because of the barmy circular \"Rotair\" rotating cable car. It's the only one of its kind in Europe, and as a tourist attraction it pulls in loads of non-skiing Indian and Japanese pedestrians. The gently spinning, 360-degree cable-car concept works best in the summer, when it gives hikers a glorious, ever-changing panorama as it climbs, although for winter sportsmen the car's constant movement means your skis and poles get tangled up as you ascend and you can lose your balance trying to straighten them up. It also required considerable restraint on your reporter's behalf to not make like a fairground teddy boy and bellow out \"scream if you wanna go faster, girls!\" as we started our daffy twirl upwards and onwards.\u2022 Swiss (0845 601 0956, swiss.com) flies to Zurich from Birmingham, Heathrow, London City and Manchester from \u00a399 rtn inc tax. From Zurich take the train to Engelberg via Lucerne (020-7420 49 00, swissrailways.com). In winter Ski Lodge Engelberg (0041 786 75 33 66), CHF 70. Three-course dinner CHF40. Iglu hotel at Tr\u00fcbsee Lake (+ 612 27 28, iglu-dorf.com).Lech, AustriaIglu Ski has lopped over 50% off a seven-day package to Lech, in the Arlberg region, which includes return Innsbruck flights from Gatwick and full-board at the traditional Chalet Hotel Sonneck. Grub is provided in the wood-panelled dining room with views over Lech, and the candle-lit bar is a popular apr\u00e8s-ski venue. \u00a3405pp for departure on 22 March, \u00a3470 for departure on 12 April. \u2022 0208 544 7114, Igluski.com.Samo\u00ebns, FranceLa Source is one of the finest ski chalets in Europe, an impressive alpine barn that sleeps 12 at the foot of the Grand Massif ski area in Samo\u00ebns, less than an hour's drive from Geneva airport. Between 7 March and 4 April the rates have been halved, to \u00a3420pp per week (you can book by the room), all-inclusive. Paired with easyJet flights, this can come in under the \u00a3500 mark all in (flights for that period currently start at \u00a337 return including taxes).\u2022 See is.gd/kPyT for details.Bourg St Maurice, FranceSnow camps offered by Animal (the ones who do the clothing and watch straps) offer guests the chance to chum up with the Animal pro-snowboard and ski team, including Olympic half-pipe contender Kate Foster, during week-long trips in the French Alps, staying at the Board'n'Lodge ecolodge in Bourg St Maurice, near Les Arcs, Tignes and Val d'Is\u00e8re, where they'll teach you tricks. The week includes full board, transfers and lift passes, departing 14 March and 21 March, and costs \u00a3690pp. EasyJet flights to Chamb\u00e9ry and Geneva over that period start at \u00a336 return. \u2022 0203 239 8181, animalsnowcamp.com.Banff, CanadaCrystal Ski has offers for the Canadian resort of Banff, a great all-round ski destination with heaps of backcountry in the Canadian Rockies, on the shores of the glacial Lake Louise. Two packages start from \u00a3599pp for 11 nights, including Gatwick-Calgary flights; the Mount Royal Hotel option on a room-only basis, and the Rocky Mountain chalets, which are fully catered.\u2022 0871 231 5659, crystalski.co.uk.Benji Lanyado", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Hotels", "Flights", "Travel", "Chalets"], "title": "Skiing in style in Engleberg, Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-25T11:41:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland may offer to negotiate a \"model\" tax treaty with the US that could be a template for its dealings with other countries and end a row over its tax-haven status, the Swiss government's closest financial advisers have said.Berne is also being advised to warn the country's banks and citizens that its financial sector, which generates around 13% of GDP, will have to shrink substantially and many of its private banks will go out of business or be forced to merge.The Swiss government has followed the advice of a taskforce of independent experts and senior officials, agreeing this month to comply with Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development standards on banking secrecy to avoid being placed on the body's blacklist and avert pariah status at next week's G20 summit in London.Specialists helping to draw up Swiss defences are discussing a revised model treaty with the US authorities on exchanges of tax information.This could then serve as the basis for bilateral treaties with around 70 other fiscal jurisdictions around the globe.It is likely that the federal government, which appointed the taskforce of specialists and senior officials only two weeks ago, will heed their advice. The Swiss would then be asked to swallow their pride and approve it in a national vote.The alternative would be to conclude separate treaties with each country and put each to a national referendum in a process that could last 150 years, Swiss sources say.Alfred Mettler, an associate professor of finance at Georgia state university in the US, and one of five independent experts, told the Guardian: \"The key thing for Berne is to secure a level playing field with other jurisdictions \u2013 Austria, Luxembourg, Singapore, Hong Kong, Andorra and the rest.\"If Switzerland really sticks to the OECD rules and the others don't, it will be shooting itself in the foot. The playing field must be as level as possible and you don't reach that goal alone. This has got to be a concerted effort through legal and diplomatic channels, winning allies among the key countries that want to change the secrecy rules: the US, UK, France and Germany.\"Switzerland is estimated to be home to a third of the $11tn (\u00a37.5tn) of wealth and assets hidden from global tax authorities. Its biggest bank, UBS, was fined a record $780m by the US authorities for abetting offshore tax evasion. It is under new legal pressure to disclose the names of 52,000 US citizens with Swiss accounts as its wealthy clients continue to pull out billions of assets previously protected by the country's 75-year-old secrecy laws.Berne is being advised that it is in the country's interest to settle the case, even though the price could be a significant contraction of the wealth-generating financial sector. \"It is very clear you have to prepare for times when you won't have the flows of untaxed monies coming in any more,\" said one specialist, who did not want to be named.Pointing out Switzerland had already stopped inflows of criminal or terrorist money and assets from, among others, dictators, sources say the government should negotiate a timeframe to handle all untaxed income, say within a couple of years. There are no definitive estimates of the amount of untaxed wealth secreted in Swiss accounts. A senior private banker has suggested as much as 50% of assets under management in Geneva is untaxed, but others have suggested 10%.\"To lose 10 or 20% in the short run does not make you obsolete as a banking centre,\" Mettler said. \"It's very different from writing off 20% of a bank's assets on its balance sheet: that kills you.\"The outcome is likely to be that \"universal\" banks such as UBS and Credit Suisse will survive in shrunken form. Hans-Rudolf Merz, the Swiss finance minister, and regulators have made plain they will not allow a merger of the two banks. But many of the smaller private banks dedicated solely to wealth and asset management could be forced to consolidate.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "US news", "Banking", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland eyes 'model' US tax treaty"},{"date": "2009-01-29T14:16:20Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Naked alpine ramblers have been warned to keep their clothes on this spring or face fines under new legislation introduced by Swiss authorities intended to clamp down on a growing pastime.The Swiss canton of Appenzell Innerrhoden has said it will slap fines of 200 francs (\u00a3122) on holidaymakers going naked in the Alps.\"We were forced to introduce the legislation against this indecent practice before the warm weather starts,\" said Melchior Looser, the justice and police minister of the canton.He said that until now the naturist walkers \u2013 sometimes referred to as \"boot-only hikers\" \u2013 had been free to wander naked because there was no law to prevent them from doing so. The new law is expected to come into force on 9 February in time for the start of the hiking season.According to one naked hiker website, nacktwandern.de, the trend goes back to the start of the 20th century and has much to do with the new access it gives people to nature.\"Abandoning unpractical clothes enables a direct contact with the wind, sun and temperature\", the site said. Some hikers even abandon footwear.A 58-year-old German lawyer and naked hiker called Dietmar, who declined to give his last name, said he was sad to hear of the Swiss changes. \"We simply try to tune into nature,\" he said. \"It's the most harmless pursuit possible.\"Looser said: \"The point is many children visit our mountains in the summer.\"Naked ramblers are drawn to Appenzell Innerrhoden \u2013 which is also famous for delaying giving women the vote until 1990 \u2013 by its beautiful landscape. Last year an internet campaign by a lobby group of hikers declared it to be a \"naked rambler paradise\", prompting a rush of visitors.The naturist movement in the German-speaking world \u2013 known as free body culture (FKK) \u2013 has traditionally flourished on beaches rather than in the mountains. According to a strict set of rules, beaches are divided into designated sections for nudists and non-nudists, with beach police patrolling the two to keep the peace.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Naked hikers face fines in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-13T19:17:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switerland's decision today to play by international tax rules is the result of a great deal of political arm-twisting, aided by the sting of scandal.The long struggle to persuade the Swiss to abandon their banking secrecy is not yet over. There is still plenty of room for foot-dragging and hair-splitting and it is likely to be several years before any information is actually exchanged. But today was important.In accepting the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development's (OECD) principles for the exchange of information on tax, the Swiss finally abandoned their insistence on a single, all-important legal point: that tax evasion is not a crime unless it involves active fraud, such as the forgery of paperwork.They will continue to treat evasion by their own citizens as a civil matter but finally, for foreigners, they have agreed in principle to provide on request the details of wealthy individuals and corporations who have income originating in Switzerland.The Swiss moved primarily because they were faced with the deeply undesirable prospect of finding themselves on a blacklist of unco-operative tax havens, due to be announced at the G20 meeting in London in April.This was not simply a threat of being named and shamed but, as the Guardian revealed this month, of being subjected to serious economic sanctions designed to drive away billions of dollars of their banking business. Since Switzerland earns 15% of its GDP from the finance sector, this threat made an impression.In the background, Switzerland's political authority has been severely weakened by the US investigation into one of its oldest and most prestigious banks, UBS, which has been caught brazenly helping thousands of wealthy Americans evade taxes.UBS staff have also been breaking the US law that forbids foreign bankers to tout for business, writing lies on their visa forms about the purpose of their visits to the US, carrying business cards that concealed their true profession and deploying counter-surveillance techniques.Even so, Switzerland continued to resist, arguing it simply could not afford to change its ways because it would lose so much business to other havens. But in a cleverly worked piece of diplomacy the OECD has persuaded all its main competitors \u2013 Liechtenstein, Singapore, Hong Kong, Austria, Belgium and Luxembourg \u2013 to announce over the past 48 hours that they too would agree to provide information on tax evaders.But this remains only one battle in a long war against tax dodgers. No information will be disclosed until the Swiss have negotiated detailed double-taxation agreements with other nations.That process could take several years. The Swiss are indicating they will hand over information only if a detailed request is submitted and if that request complies with their own procedures. They are also calling for a \"grandfather clause\" that would allow them to continue to conceal all information about accounts or investments made with them in the past. Since Swiss banks are believed to hold something like a third of the estimated $11.5tn of personal wealth hidden offshore, this would knock a very big hole in yesterday's announcement.One source suggested this was simply a PR gesture to persuade existing account holders to stay. Bruno Gurtner, the Swiss economist who chairs the global board of the Tax Justice Network, welcomed today's announcement but warned nothing would change until the new treaties were negotiated.\"In the meantime, people with accounts in Switzerland have the chance to move their money away to other havens that still do not accept the principles,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland starts slow retreat over banking secrecy and tax evasion"},{"date": "2009-02-19T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A worldwide crackdown on tax havens, from Switzerland to the Cayman Islands, will be spearheaded by Gordon Brown as the world's richest nations use the global economic downturn to close loopholes that are costing them hundreds of billions in lost revenues.As he embarks on a mini-tour of EU capitals in advance of the G20 summit in London in April, the prime minister announced yesterday that he was negotiating with fellow world leaders the terms of a tough regulatory system on tax and banking that will cover every country.Speaking at his monthly press conference in Downing Street, Brown said: \"We want the whole of the world to take action. That will mean action against regulatory and tax havens in parts of the world which have escaped the regulatory attention they need. The changes we make will have to apply to all jurisdictions around the world.\"The global crackdown envisaged by Brown follows the Guardian's special series, the Tax Gap, which highlighted the ways a range of Britain's biggest companies have employed secretive tax arrangements to reduce their liability. HM Revenue & Customs estimates that the size of the tax gap, which has seen companies shift ownership of brands to offshore tax havens, could be anything between \u00a33.7bn and \u00a313bn.The prime minister, who will meet the Italian prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, today in Rome before a mini-summit of the four EU leaders in the G20 in Berlin on Sunday, declined to be drawn on the specifics of his plan. But the Guardian understands that he is taking a particular interest in Switzerland, while Barack Obama singled out the Cayman Islands during the US presidential election campaign.The other members of the G7 - plus the 13 other slightly less affluent members who make up the G20 - lose similar amounts. This means that the world's main industrialised countries could be losing in excess of \u00a3100bn in tax revenues a year.The prime minister believes that significant progress will be made at the G20 summit, which he will chair, because world leaders have recognised that the downturn provides a strong opportunity to crack down on tax havens.\"I am more confident now, having talked to world leaders, that we are in a position to take further action on this matter,\" he said yesterday.Brown's plan will have three key elements:\u2022 Clamping down on individuals who avoid tax. It is in this area that he is focusing his attention on Switzerland.One senior British figure said that a lengthy EU campaign to rein in savers who attempt to avoid tax had eventually identified a trail leading to Switzerland. The source said: \"If you take the EU we had this long campaign to stop tax avoidance on savings. Basically you had Germans putting their money into Luxembourg or Austria to prevent them being taxed in Germany. So the EU decided to clamp down on it. But actually people went to Switzerland and to Lichtenstein. So unless you can start dealing with the tax havens themselves then there's always a route which people can take. So we are trying to get international agreement.\"\u2022 Focusing on corporations that use tax havens. Barack Obama made clear during the US election campaign that the Cayman Islands is used by US corporations to avoid tax.Obama memorably said: \"There's a building in the Cayman Islands that houses supposedly 12,000 US-based corporations. That's either the biggest building in the world or the biggest tax scam in the world, and we know which one it is.\"But Britain and other leading countries are expected to proceed cautiously in any attempt to restrict the financial manoevring of corporations. Sources say it is important that everyone pays their fair share of tax but no country will want to damage the economic competitiveness of major companies.\u2022 Tightening the regulation of markets. Britain believes that billions of pounds in transactions take place between banks, such as credit default swaps, with no reporting mechanism, let alone regulation.The Guardian's series on tax avoidance theguardian.com/taxgap", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Gordon Brown", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "Switzerland", "European Union", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Brown targets Switzerland in global tax haven crackdown"},{"date": "2009-02-12T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is a major international financial centre doing substantial business with non-residents, just like London or New York, so I was alarmed by the negative image of the country sketched in your Tax Gap series (In the country where tax evasion is no crime, Swiss private banks are unrepentant about siphoning off other governments' income, 5 February).To say that \"tax evasion is no crime\" is not the full story. While it's true the Swiss do not believe a citizen should go to jail for tax evasion - such a drastic sanction is reserved for serious financial and other crimes - anyone suspected or discovered evading taxes in Switzerland actually goes through hell, and without all the procedural protections of the criminal justice system to boot. Back taxes, penalty taxes and other fines mean virtual confiscation of assets several times the evaded amount.Privacy is the default setting in our society, and our tax authorities have no right of forced entry into a bank account outside a criminal investigation. However, should the authorities become suspicious and turn on the spotlight, it's then up to the citizen to supply documentary evidence to clear their position. This approach, combined with the highest withholding tax rate in the world, encourages a very high degree of taxpayer honesty without having to make tax evasion a criminal offence, and without having to trample on privacy.Your report also stated: \"The Swiss openly assist not merely legal tax avoidance but also the deliberate concealment of wealth for the purpose of evading tax.\" This is not true. Swiss banks are forbidden to provide any active assistance with tax evasion, for example by providing incomplete or misleading attestations, and they are also forbidden to actively assist with capital flight - in other words, the transfer of capital from countries whose legislation restricts the investment of funds abroad.But the Tax Gap sketch of Switzerland's international position caused me greatest alarm. The impression given is of an impenetrable, uncooperative fortress and a banking industry that hisses and spits at every attempt to make it cooperate - \"they have refused to sign any tax information exchange agreement\", or \"they have refused to sign up to the EU savings directive\". In reality Switzerland has a dense network of bilateral, double-taxation treaties with some 70 countries that include provisions to exchange information in tax matters. Switzerland also helped the EU close a potential loophole in its savings tax directive by generously offering to impose equivalent measures. Thanks to Switzerland's cooperation with Brussels, EU taxpayers cannot circumvent the EU's directive simply by using a paying agent in Switzerland.Ultimately, however, chronic tax evasion is a symptom of illness in a state's relationship with its citizens. Critics of Switzerland would do well to study our tax model with a view to improving things in their own countries. The OECD has drawn attention to Switzerland's code of conduct for tax authorities, taxpayers and tax advisers as an example of how to promote what it calls an \"enhanced relationship\" between taxpayers and revenue bodies.\u2022 Urs Roth is chief executive officer of the Swiss Bankers Associationoffice@sba.ch", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Tax avoidance", "Business", "Europe"], "title": "Response: Switzerland is not a haven for tax evaders"},{"date": "2009-01-19T12:15:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A Swiss lawyer working on behalf of the Iraqi journalist who threw shoes at the US president, George Bush, said today his client would seek political asylum in Switzerland.Geneva-based lawyer Mauro Poggia said Muntadhar al-Zeidi's life was in danger if he stayed in Iraq.Al-Zeidi has been detained in an Iraqi jail awaiting trial since he was seized by guards after his 14 December outburst at a joint news conference in Baghdad by Bush and the Iraqi prime minister, Nouri al-Maliki.\"He is in danger over there,\" Poggia told the Associated Press in a telephone interview. \"He's also in danger in other Muslim countries because people who support his action could try to make him a martyr.\"Al-Zeidi's act turned the employee of a minor TV station into a national hero to the many Iraqis who are fed up with America's six-year presence in the country. But concern has been raised about his safety after allegations that he had been severely beaten and tortured in detention.Poggia said any harm caused to al-Zeidi could trigger violent protests in Iraq.\"I think it's in the interest of the current Iraqi government that nothing happens to Mr al-Zeidi,\" he said.The lawyer said he was contacted earlier this month by al-Zeidi's relatives because of Switzerland's reputation as a safe, neutral country. Geneva is the seat of the Red Cross movement and the European headquarters of the United Nations.\"My client needs to make his request at the Swiss embassy in Baghdad when he is released,\" said Poggia. \"But we don't know when he will be able to do that because he still hasn't gone to trial.\"Al-Zeidi, 30, had been due to face a trial last month on a charge of assaulting a foreign leader, but the court date was postponed after his defence filed a motion to reduce the charges to simply insulting Bush.", "tags": ["Iraq", "George Bush", "US news", "Switzerland", "Media", "Associated Press", "Europe"], "title": "Iraqi journalist who threw shoes at Bush to seek asylum in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-03-14T00:56:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Gordon Brown last night hailed the \u00adbeginning of the end for tax havens, as Switzerland opened up its \u00adlegendary system of bank secrecy and agreed to hand over information on wealthy clients suspected of tax evasion.The move, described as historic by anti-poverty campaigners, came as \u00adinternational pressure, including action from Brown and Barack Obama, forced the world's tax havens to hand over previously undisclosed data on account holders.In a remarkable week, Europe's secrecy jurisdictions \u2013 Liechtenstein, Andorra, Austria, Luxembourg, Jersey and \u00adSwitzerland \u2013 all entered into international information sharing agreements.Swiss ministers said the government caved in after learning the country was going to be included this month on a \u00adblacklist of uncooperative tax havens drawn up by the Organisation for \u00adEconomic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Having agreed to sign up to the OECD protocol on tax, Switzerland will hand over information on account \u00adholders suspected of tax evasion by another country.Until now tax evasion was not illegal in Switzerland and secrecy has been the bedrock of its economy.Hans-Rudolf Merz, Swiss president and finance minister, said yesterday: \"Co-operation on taxes has become more important given the globalisation of \u00adfinancial markets and in particular against the background of the financial crisis.\"Switzerland is the world's biggest tax haven. The world's rich hide at least $1.89 tn (\u00a31.35tn) of the estimated $7trn of \u00adprivate wealth there according to the Swiss Bankers Association, though others put the figure much higher.Dr Andreas Missbach, joint managing director of Swiss anti-poverty campaign group Berne Declaration, said: \"This is a major and historic first step. We have reason to celebrate but we still demand automatic exchange of information to address profound global economic imbalances.\"The world's tax havens have been \u00adrattled by a series of events that have forced them to come into the open.The Guardian has run a series of articles in its Tax Gap investigation detailing how some British companies use such havens to pay less tax to the UK treasury.The global banking collapse revealed that many of the most complex debt instruments were based in offshore \u00adcentres such as Jersey.Obama has made cracking down on secretive jurisdictions central to his \u00adeconomic justice programme. \u00adThe fresh concessions by tax havens will not lead to full disclosure of the true \u00adbeneficiaries of the complicated maze of sham trusts designed to confuse \u00adinternational tax authorities.Campaign groups from all over Europe marched through Jersey's capital, St Helier yesterday. In a statement the aid groups demanded \"a systemic change \u2026 to allow developing countries to get hold of the information they need \u2026 so they can stop the tax evasion\".The extent to which companies and individuals are using overseas tax havens to legally dodge tax has been exposed in the \u00adTax Gap series. The investigation found that Royal Bank of Scotland used a series of schemes to avoid paying \u00a3500m to British and US revenues.Many other FTSE-listed companies have also used complex financial structures to cut their tax liabilities to the British Treasury.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Banking", "Tax", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland signs up to tax-evasion fight"},{"date": "2009-02-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Looking up and across the mountain from the window of Engelberg's Titlis-St\u00fcbli bubble lift as it took us up out of the grey gloom and into the bright blue, sunny yonder, I was properly cheered to notice that a great deal of time and effort had been put into carving a heartfelt message in the snow adjacent to the scary-looking ski-jump facility.\"Well Done Dominique!\" it said in 8ft letters, penned, I guessed, by a tenacious, youthful committee of off-piste sign-writers using a combination of shovels, up-ended skis and poles. Dominique Gisin, an Engelberg local, had just won first place in a big downhill race, and the community was celebrating the achievement by writing her name large in an area of snow that faced the town square and was floodlit at night. Ah, I thought to myself as I headed onwards and upwards. That's nice. Later that same day, during another spectacular cable-car ride on the other side of the mountain, I looked down into the disappearing valley and couldn't help noticing a different but equally outstanding example of opportunist snow-graffiti. On a large piece of flat land, just by the lift station, broad and wide enough to be a small car park, some aspirant Alpine Keith Haring had etched a massive representation of the male reproductive organ into the frozen white. Complete with what I had to admit was a pretty good attempt at pubic hair. Ah, I thought. Now I get this place.Engelberg, you see, is that kind of winter resort: a wholesome, unaffected town of downhill demons and benign hooligans. A young, fun place that plays hard and skis even harder, In Engelberg (population just 400) the local heroes are ski bums, ski jumpers, slalom and Super-G specialists, medal winners and nascent champions - not obnoxiously flash types spraying champagne. This is not oligarch-centric Courchevel or ostentatious Verbier. Engelberg (it means \"Angel Mountain\" by the way) is not buttoned up and grimly formal like nearby St Moritz. Nor is it the family-orientated, all-can-do resort of, say, Les Deux Alpes (families and apathetic sorts will probably be put off by the town's slightly awkward, inconvenient layout that means there's a two-minute shuttle bus ride or a 15-minute hike to the main lift station every morning) and it doesn't bray with sturdy, blonde Tanias and tanked-up, ruddy-faced Henrys like Val d'Is\u00e8re. The agenda here is: get up early, ski all day, eat well and then party until you fall over. Repeat for seven days or a long weekend. Yes, getting up the mountain can be a bit of a kerfuffle (there seemed to be a lot of transferring, staircases, lift-pass interludes), but once you're at the top of the 10,000-feet-high Titlis glacier, the skiing is pretty decent with a total of 82km of pisted runs - 30% per cent beginner slopes, 60% for intermediates and 10% for advanced nutters. At more than 6,000 feet down and eight miles long, one sequence of runs claims to be among the longest vertical drops in Switzerland. If you have blue skies and soft afternoon snow like we did, clattering down from the very top of the hill into the village is a truly glorious experience.On day two, accompanied by a guide, we did the spectacular Galtiberg off-piste run (a must for any intermediate or better visitor) and had it all - magnificent ice falls, untracked powder fields, thrillingly precarious tree skiing and a dinky little train ride at the end - to ourselves. Along for the ride that day was Niklas M\u00f6ller, the 28-year-old Swedish-born hotelier behind Engelberg's newest hostelry, called simply Ski Lodge Engelberg. Niklas recognised the resort's niche appeal and saw a potential gap in the market for its unpretentious but upbeat demographic when he first came to the town as a student aged 18. He had skied all over Europe in the toniest, most upmarket destinations, but something about this monastery town with its cheese factory and gimmicky cable car system touched a nerve. Niklas loved the train journey from Zurich - change at Lucerne on to the cute Stans-Engelberg railway, which lurches into a comically extreme gradient on its final few kilometres - and relished the skiing and the fact that Engelberg eschewed package tours and groups, preferring to enjoy something of a best-kept-secret reputation among the winter sports cognoscenti. (Although it has long been highly regarded by the Swiss). In fact, Niklas liked the place so much that he deferred his studies for a term and put in a season as a ski bum. After graduating he went into finance, working for a private equity outfit in London, but a decade on, cannily quit his job (just as the markets were starting to look dodgy) and, in 2007, teaming up with two Swedish partners, secured the lease on the hotel next to the Engelberg railway station. The young, ambitious team - Niklas, Carl-Johan, Jenny and Johan - set about simplifying, uncluttering, de-Tyrolising the d\u00e9cor, smartening up bedrooms, adding a hot tub and a sauna (they are Swedish, remember) putting in a funky bar and establishing a contemporary feel to the dining. After the first overbooked season, the hotel grew to include an adjacent property, a further 40 beds and a quaint, hexagonal glass house in the garden where you can enjoy a private dinner. Now the Swedes are looking for similarly low-key ski destinations where they can open further Ski Lodge hotels and, very subtly, turn their concept into a brand. \"We wanted to create an atmosphere where, say, a 45-year-old guy who might have been a ski bum once in his life but now has a desk job, a family and a mortgage, can come and stay for a week and behave a little bit like a ski bum again,\" explains Niklas. (A ski bum eating very nice food and sleeping on nice plain white, freshly changed bed linen every day, that is.) They've done a good job. Ski Lodge Engelberg is a basic, inoffensively trendy, clean and fresh place with a wholesome, energetic ambience. Staff are young, bright-eyed, wind tanned sorts and, right down to the bus boys and chambermaids, all excellent skiers who will take great delight in telling you where all the freshest dumps of powder are located on the mountain.I have to report that the food is really excellent; no chalet-girl stodge here. This is the sort of modern, pan-European grub you'd order in, say a fashionable Shoreditch eaterie or a Stockholm gastro pub. During a three-night stay we ate our evening meals at the hotel twice, and despite the fact that it operated under the dubious sobriquet \"Rukas - kick-ass restaurant\" it was very good; veal with porcini baked onions and cream, mussels with leeks and dried local ham washed down with local monastery-brewed beer. Here are some more unusual things about Engelberg: locals claim that spring skiing goes on almost until summer. Because the town is at an altitude of 1,000m, and is the first large mountain range the weather systems hit when they come in from the north-west, it gets snowed on a lot. Heavy falls, which usually start in November, typically continue until the end of April.In the Spindle nightclub, Engelberg claims to have the oldest disco in Switzerland (and from what I could hear, the oldest playlist to match). Visitors looking for some peace, meanwhile, can find remote, novelty accommodation high up at Tr\u00fcbsee Lake where the Iglu hotel, a labyrinthine series of large domes constructed from hard-packed snow, offers hardy, experimental overnighters a bar (try the white gluwein) a fondue restaurant, a tabernacle (for mountain-top weddings), a hot tub and several lamb skin-upholstered bedrooms. I had a look around, and while finding the concept amusing I was very happy to be heading back to the hot bath and flatscreen telly in my room down in the resort. And how about this? As far as I know, Engelberg is the only ski resort in Switzerland - and maybe the Alps - that has provided the backdrop for a Bollywood movie. I'm presuming that the Indian movie industry chose Engelberg because of the barmy circular \"Rotair\" rotating cable car. It's the only one of its kind in Europe, and as a tourist attraction it pulls in loads of non-skiing Indian and Japanese pedestrians. The gently spinning, 360-degree cable-car concept works best in the summer, when it gives hikers a glorious, ever-changing panorama as it climbs, although for winter sportsmen the car's constant movement means your skis and poles get tangled up as you ascend and you can lose your balance trying to straighten them up. It also required considerable restraint on your reporter's behalf to not make like a fairground teddy boy and bellow out \"scream if you wanna go faster, girls!\" as we started our daffy twirl upwards and onwards.\u2022 Swiss (0845 601 0956, swiss.com) flies to Zurich from Birmingham, Heathrow, London City and Manchester from \u00a399 rtn inc tax. From Zurich take the train to Engelberg via Lucerne (020-7420 49 00, swissrailways.com). In winter Ski Lodge Engelberg (0041 786 75 33 66), CHF 70. Three-course dinner CHF40. Iglu hotel at Tr\u00fcbsee Lake (+ 612 27 28, iglu-dorf.com).Lech, AustriaIglu Ski has lopped over 50% off a seven-day package to Lech, in the Arlberg region, which includes return Innsbruck flights from Gatwick and full-board at the traditional Chalet Hotel Sonneck. Grub is provided in the wood-panelled dining room with views over Lech, and the candle-lit bar is a popular apr\u00e8s-ski venue. \u00a3405pp for departure on 22 March, \u00a3470 for departure on 12 April. \u2022 0208 544 7114, Igluski.com.Samo\u00ebns, FranceLa Source is one of the finest ski chalets in Europe, an impressive alpine barn that sleeps 12 at the foot of the Grand Massif ski area in Samo\u00ebns, less than an hour's drive from Geneva airport. Between 7 March and 4 April the rates have been halved, to \u00a3420pp per week (you can book by the room), all-inclusive. Paired with easyJet flights, this can come in under the \u00a3500 mark all in (flights for that period currently start at \u00a337 return including taxes).\u2022 See is.gd/kPyT for details.Bourg St Maurice, FranceSnow camps offered by Animal (the ones who do the clothing and watch straps) offer guests the chance to chum up with the Animal pro-snowboard and ski team, including Olympic half-pipe contender Kate Foster, during week-long trips in the French Alps, staying at the Board'n'Lodge ecolodge in Bourg St Maurice, near Les Arcs, Tignes and Val d'Is\u00e8re, where they'll teach you tricks. The week includes full board, transfers and lift passes, departing 14 March and 21 March, and costs \u00a3690pp. EasyJet flights to Chamb\u00e9ry and Geneva over that period start at \u00a336 return. \u2022 0203 239 8181, animalsnowcamp.com.Banff, CanadaCrystal Ski has offers for the Canadian resort of Banff, a great all-round ski destination with heaps of backcountry in the Canadian Rockies, on the shores of the glacial Lake Louise. Two packages start from \u00a3599pp for 11 nights, including Gatwick-Calgary flights; the Mount Royal Hotel option on a room-only basis, and the Rocky Mountain chalets, which are fully catered.\u2022 0871 231 5659, crystalski.co.uk.Benji Lanyado", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Weekend breaks", "Hotels", "Flights", "Travel", "Chalets"], "title": "Skiing in style in Engleberg, Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-02-19T00:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "His life had taken him from the northern tip of Sri Lanka to a pebble-dashed semi in north-west London and finally to a cold square in Geneva. But it is for his death that the 26-year-old Tamil, Murugathasan Varnakulasingham, is likely to be remembered.A little after eight o'clock last Thursday night, the computing graduate and part-time Sainsbury's shelf-stacker doused himself in petrol in Geneva and set light to his body outside the United Nations complex in the Place des Nations. Police officers rushed to try to save Murugathasan, who stood \"burning like a torch\", but he was too badly injured. A few metres away, they found a letter typed in Tamil and English explaining why he had chosen to die: \"We Tamils, displaced and all over the world, loudly raised our problems and asked for help before [the] international community in your own language for three decades. But nothing happened ... So I decided to sacrifice my life ... The flames over my body will be a torch to guide you through the liberation path.\"Seven Tamils - including Murugathasan - have burned themselves to death in the past month to protest about the treatment of their people by Sri Lanka's Sinhalese government. Most were in the Indian state of Tamil Nadu, but on 14 February, another British-based Tamil allegedly tried to set himself on fire outside Downing Street, but was arrested before he could do so.The wave of suicidal demonstrations has been provoked by the Sri Lankan government's latest attempt to crush the Liberation Tamil Tigers of Eelam (LTTE). In an attempt to end the country's 30-year civil war, Colombo has dispatched 50,000 troops to the north-east of the island. However, the offensive has left 200,000 civilians trapped between the two sides, and some estimates say 40 civilians are being killed each day. Both sides stand accused of atrocities: the LTTE of using civilians as human shields and forcing people to join its ranks and the government of indiscriminate shelling and setting up internment camps for Tamils.According to his younger brother, Velmurugan, Murugathasan had become obsessed with the suffering of the civilians and had begun to devour reports and images of what was going on in the country he left seven years ago. \"He was a very emotional guy and it just made him worse. He couldn't eat and he just cried.\"He added that the reports reminded his brother of the two years the family spent in a camp for displaced people in Kilinochi after the war forced them to leave their village in Jaffna. \"He always worried about the people who were going through what he had gone through.\"Although Murugathasan joined tens of thousands of fellow British-based Tamils on their protest march through London at the end of January, he could not shake a feeling of powerlessness. \"He went to Geneva saying that he was going to participate in the protests,\" said Velmurugan. \"He kept talking about the guys who had burnt themselves in India, saying: 'They're doing this for us. What are we doing for them?' \"But Murugathasan gave his family no hint of his intentions and they remain convinced that his suicide was a spur-of-the-moment decision. Velmurugan said: \"He rang home last Monday, he sounded normal and said he would be coming back on Friday.\"His brother, he added, was not a tough guy. \"He was very soft. If he fell and hurt his leg, he would cry.\" The family learned about the death through the Tamil media and said they had had no contact with the Swiss or British authorities. His mother, who has been inconsolable, sat weeping in the living room of the family's home in Harrow. A few feet away was a makeshift shrine with Murugathasan's picture on a table flanked by the television and stereo and surrounded by incense and flowers.Thaya Idaikkadar, a local Labour councillor and chairman of the British Tamil Councillors and Associates, said: \"He did not do this for himself or his family, he did it for his people. He was pushed into it because the media won't tell people what's going on.\" However, he was keen to add that Murugathasan's actions could not be condoned. \"We do not support any form of suicide - our advice is that no one else should ever do what he did.\"The family is now trying to plan what they think could prove to be \"a small state funeral\", with thousands of Tamils from all over the UK coming to pay their respects.Velmurugan, though, is still struggling to understand what was going through his brother's mind as he stood in the Place des Nations. \"Maybe he told himself: 'By losing my life I can save thousands of people.' These were the only weapons he had. He had only himself to burn.\"", "tags": ["Sri Lanka", "Switzerland", "UK news", "World news", "Europe", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Tamil man kills himself in Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-06-22T20:04:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland faces economic sanctions if it delays opening up its notoriously secretive banks to international scrutiny. The threat will be made today by world finance ministers in a key meeting to discuss how to broaden the crackdown on tax havens that are draining exchequers of tens of billions of dollars each year.The meeting of finance ministers in Berlin will report on progress towards complying with new international demands on tax transparency following the G20 summit in London in April. Failure to comply will be greeted with \"hostility\" warned one official. Unlike at London, Switzerland has been invited to attend.The Swiss are rushing to sign bilateral information-sharing agreements with 12 countries by the end of the year. So far it has agreed six but it needs 12 treaties to remove itself from a \"grey list\" of countries deemed not to have met international tax transparency standards.Switzerland reached a double tax agreement with the United States last week. However, its leading bank, UBS, still faces a potentially damaging court trial next month for its part in a tax evasion scandal allegedly involving up to 52,000 US account holders. It has also suffered a huge outflow of money from its private banks in recent months as the wealthy grow nervous that the end of Swiss bank secrecy is coming closer.Jeffrey Owens, director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said last week that summit participants would stipulate what signs of progress they expect to see from countries on the list, and also suggested that the patience of world powers with tax havens such as Liechtenstein, the Caymans and Switzerland was running out. \"Political tolerance for non-compliance is headed rapidly towards zero,\" he said. Owens added, however, that there had been a great deal of progress on the tax haven issue over the last six months.But campaigners argue that the weight of evidence required by tax \u00adinvestigators to force tax haven officials to hand over details of accounts on suspected tax evaders is so onerous that the current treaties are ineffective. There is pressure on the OECD, the thinktank of leading nations which sets international tax standards, to force countries to sign more treaties and to introduce automatic information-sharing agreements.Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, will use the Berlin meeting today to call for the introduction of a radical new measure to force global firms to reveal exactly the profits they make and the tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in. Known as country-by-country reporting, the proposal is likely to gain strong support from the French and Germans as a way of ensuring countries economies can weather the financial crisis that has destroyed tax revenues.The role of tax incentives in propagating the bank crisis is also likely to come under the microscope following a recent IMF paper arguing that \"tax distortions are likely to have encouraged excessive leveraging and other financial market problems evident in the crisis\". Private equity firms, in particular, have used tax incentives on debt to finance corporate raids that are now unwinding.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "UBS", "Switzerland", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland faces sanctions over banking secrecy"},{"date": "2009-06-22T20:04:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland faces economic sanctions if it delays opening up its notoriously secretive banks to international scrutiny. The threat will be made today by world finance ministers in a key meeting to discuss how to broaden the crackdown on tax havens that are draining exchequers of tens of billions of dollars each year.The meeting of finance ministers in Berlin will report on progress towards complying with new international demands on tax transparency following the G20 summit in London in April. Failure to comply will be greeted with \"hostility\" warned one official. Unlike at London, Switzerland has been invited to attend.The Swiss are rushing to sign bilateral information-sharing agreements with 12 countries by the end of the year. So far it has agreed six but it needs 12 treaties to remove itself from a \"grey list\" of countries deemed not to have met international tax transparency standards.Switzerland reached a double tax agreement with the United States last week. However, its leading bank, UBS, still faces a potentially damaging court trial next month for its part in a tax evasion scandal allegedly involving up to 52,000 US account holders. It has also suffered a huge outflow of money from its private banks in recent months as the wealthy grow nervous that the end of Swiss bank secrecy is coming closer.Jeffrey Owens, director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said last week that summit participants would stipulate what signs of progress they expect to see from countries on the list, and also suggested that the patience of world powers with tax havens such as Liechtenstein, the Caymans and Switzerland was running out. \"Political tolerance for non-compliance is headed rapidly towards zero,\" he said. Owens added, however, that there had been a great deal of progress on the tax haven issue over the last six months.But campaigners argue that the weight of evidence required by tax \u00adinvestigators to force tax haven officials to hand over details of accounts on suspected tax evaders is so onerous that the current treaties are ineffective. There is pressure on the OECD, the thinktank of leading nations which sets international tax standards, to force countries to sign more treaties and to introduce automatic information-sharing agreements.Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, will use the Berlin meeting today to call for the introduction of a radical new measure to force global firms to reveal exactly the profits they make and the tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in. Known as country-by-country reporting, the proposal is likely to gain strong support from the French and Germans as a way of ensuring countries economies can weather the financial crisis that has destroyed tax revenues.The role of tax incentives in propagating the bank crisis is also likely to come under the microscope following a recent IMF paper arguing that \"tax distortions are likely to have encouraged excessive leveraging and other financial market problems evident in the crisis\". Private equity firms, in particular, have used tax incentives on debt to finance corporate raids that are now unwinding.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "UBS", "Switzerland", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland faces sanctions over banking secrecy"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It's reality TV, but not as we know it. While we have been gripped by the rise and fall of Susan Boyle on Britain's Got Talent, viewers in Qatar are tuning in to Stars of Science, a new reality show beamed across the Arab world, where brainy youngsters compete to produce the best invention.Among the hopefuls is Hashem al-Sada, a 22-year-old Qatari who is not a star on YouTube, but has devised a tent fitted with solar panels for electricity generation. The show has deliberately eschewed the cruelty of booting out losing candidates: instead, they are invited to team up with successful competitors. Stars of Science encapsulates the huge faith Qatar puts in research and innovation; the contrast between it and our version of reality TV also says something about the arrogance of assuming western cultural values are automatically superior, though that's another story. It is not just the TV that is different in Doha. Flying from a downbeat London into the vast, pristine international air terminal is like arriving in another world. The commercial property market in the UK is on its knees, but in the West Bay business district gleaming towers are springing up in the blistering 50C heat. They bear witness to the determination to reduce Qatar's dependence on oil and gas by building a sort of Canary Wharf in the desert - only without the excessive bonuses and the ruinous risk-taking.While Gordon Brown's grip on government has been weakened by the crunch and the MPs' expenses scandal, the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa al-Thani, does not have to deal with the inconvenience of an electorate and has been able to press quietly ahead with plans to diversify the economy.Dr Tidu Maini is executive chairman of the Qatar Science and Technology Park, set up to commercialise research in energy, the environment, healthcare and IT; he recently established an experimental facility with Qatari company GreenGulf to study solar-to-electricity conversion methods. \"Instead of putting our money into a solar company in the UK or Germany, we are investing in our own country,\" he says. \"There is nobody doing what we are doing in a comprehensive and strategic way.\"With a dry smile, he adds: \"But it's easy for us because we are a small country and don't have a corrupt parliament.\"As Britain remains in recession, Qatar's per capita income has crossed the $70,000 (\u00a343,000) a head mark, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world. The Qatar Central Bank estimates growth of 7-9% for this year; the IMF predicts growth of 15-18%. Whatever: these are figures Alistair Darling would give his second home for. Dubai, which has little in the way of oil and gas, may have gone through a highly leveraged boom and bust (see below), but Qatar is in a very different position.It is currently running a small budget deficit - the first for nearly a decade - because oil prices have been low, although if they show a sustained improvement, that will be eradicated by the end of the fiscal year. But it has a good credit rating, and, most important, it has about 90 years' worth of oil reserves and more than 200 years of gas production. Not that there is any schadenfreude at Dubai's downfall; the feeling is that the whole region will have to support Dubai for the sake of collective credibility.Neither have the Qataris got too overwrought about the recent rise in the oil price to a six-month high above $67 a barrel, which has led some commentators to speculate about a resurgence of the petro-powers. Opec, the oil producers' cartel, wants to see the price stabilise at around $75 a barrel, which it reckons is the level needed to ensure investment in new supplies. Whether or not that pans out, the Qataris are interested in moving beyond petro-power and rebasing their economy so they are not hostage to a volatile oil price.Ahmad Anani, a partner in the Al-Tamimi law firm in Doha, says: \"I don't think Qatar perceives itself as a petro-power in the conventional sense ... There is no interest in flexing their muscles like Vladimir Putin, or in blowing money in Mayfair casinos. They are using the money to develop the country.\"Qatar has been cushioned from the global downturn by its position as the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG) - gas that has been turned into liquid form, making it easier to ship around the world. The UK is a big customer: the Queen and the Emir opened a new LNG terminal in Milford Haven last month. But despite the fact that LNG is a superb resource, the Qataris see no reason to rest on their laurels.Phillip Thorpe, chairman and chief executive of the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) Regulatory Authority, says: \"Whether oil is at a sustainable level is anyone's guess. The real point is that there has been a maturity around the way the government is approaching oil and gas revenue. It is a wonderful bounty today, but what about tomorrow? There are decades of gas reserves and you would think it's a good reason to go to the beach - but that is not future-proofing the economy.\"Thorpe is a key player in one form of future-proofing: the push to turn Doha into a regional financial centre - a Switzerland in the sand, with insurance and wealth management as major elements. The QFC's headquarters, where Thorpe has his offices, are in a building that is only a few years old - though that makes it practically an ancient monument by the standards of West Bay. It started in 2005; now it has 113 staff and licensed its 100th institution at the end of last year, a Qatari full-service Islamic bank. Next month it will launch Qatar Insurance Services, a system for processing and trading between insurers and reinsurers, with 17 firms as strategic partners.Another major initiative is the setting up of the Qatar Finance and Business Academy, to try to ensure there are enough well-trained local staff to run a 21st-century financial centre. Jon Morton, QFC's director for financial development and a former deputy principal of Henley Management College, says: \"We need to concentrate on middle-management talent - things like the English language, and a focus on the customer, not an internal focus.\"The structure and the skills of the population are a serious challenge. Of the 1.5 million residents, only around 250,000 or so are native Qataris; the rest are expats. It means very few people will be supporting what could be a very large and turbocharged economic engine. Mohamad Moabi, assistant general manager with Qatar National Bank, says: \"The challenge is to develop citizens for a post-oil economy. A knowledge-based economy is very important.\"To that end, education is free from kindergarten to university level. The seriousness of the commitment to learning is manifest in Education City, a 14 sq km development on the outskirts of Doha that houses not only schools but outposts of leading US universities such as Cornell, Georgetown and Carnegie Mellon. As one British expat sighs: \"If my kids were Qatari citizens, all my worries about education would be over.\"Dr Mohamed Fathy Saoud, president of the Qatar Foundation, which backs Education City, says: \"Human resources are more important than oil and gas resources. We are bringing one of the brightest facets of western civilisation to the region: the top universities. If you talk to people on the street they will be opposed to what the US and the UK did in Iraq, but this project is saying 'look beyond that to what these countries have contributed to education and research'.\"The sheer pace of economic development is throwing up social and cultural issues. One is the situation of women. The Emir's consort, Sheikha Mozah, plays a highly visible role in a region where royal wives until recently were rarely seen and certainly never heard.While it is a deeply conservative society, Qatari women can vote, drive and play a full part in the workplace: headscarves are a frequent sight, but the dress code for women is not as strict as in Saudi. Dr Sheikha Abdulla al-Misnad, president of Qatar University, says about half her staff and 70% of her students are women. \"We are very proud of how well our young women are doing, but there is an issue about our young men. Girls work hard and get better grades in high school, while young men drop out.\" Girls have been high achievers partly because of cultural expectations, she adds. \"Society expects women to work in a safe and professional environment, in a high status job, not to be in low-skill jobs and this is part of the reason why they are they are so determined to succeed academically. It is creating social problems because women are finding their marriage suitors are less qualified. \"The number of single women is increasing. It is difficult for lots of young professional women to find a husband. People don't have taboos about women in education because when education started in Qatar it started for both men and women from the outset, unlike many universities in the West which had been were exclusively for men for decades before women were granted access to higher education.\" None the less, the divide may be creating social tensions simply because the women are finding many eligible bachelors less qualified than they are. While the Qataris are keen to show visitors their sunlit uplands, one does have a sense of a reserved, multi-layered, complex society where difficult topics are not discussed, particularly with western journalists. Qatar has been keen to establish itself as the focal point of the new Arab media: its flagship broadcaster is Al-Jazeera, founded in 1996 and regulated by the UK's Ofcom in the hope of fending off accusations of bias, and the Doha Centre for Media Freedom was set up last year. Participants don't pull punches in the Doha Debates, a forum for free speech tackling the region's thorniest issues. In the most recent, the vote was in favour of letting Muslim women marry men of their choice. However, the media has a deferential air and the line is that the press should be free, but \"respectful\".Thorpe, who was pushed out of his job as head of the Dubai financial regulator after objecting to interference from above, says he is able to operate in Qatar without fear or favour: \"The message being sent out by the Emir and the government is that everyone has to abide by the rules.\" But it's important to remember who makes the rules. The Emir, who deposed his father in a bloodless coup in 1995, may be an enlightened monarch who has moved towards democracy, but there is no doubt who is in charge.The credit crunch has led to greater questioning of the western economic and social model. As Moabi says: \"Excessive risk-taking and innovation in financial products really hurt the financial system ... Who would have thought that GM would be filing for bankruptcy? We don't have MPs abusing expenses, or Madoffs. Our image of western people is not tarnished, but our image of the system is.\"Like the UK, Qatar is a small nation punching above its weight. Like the UK, it wants to become a knowledge-based economy. Like Tony Blair, it has a leader who believes in education, education, education. Perhaps - unlike the UK, which failed to husband its oil wealth - it will make wise use of its windfall.Dubai has been through a painful learning experience over the past six months. The boomtown of the Gulf, bling capital of the Middle East and the most globalised of the region's economies, it has born the brunt of the world's financial hurricane.Casualties range from the property speculators who lost millions in the 65% collapse of real estate prices to the sun-seeking expatriates who have quit their tax-free beachside lifestyles, down to the lowly-paid construction workers who have been \"relocated\" to other projects in the Gulf or back to their homes in Kerala or Guangdong.But perhaps the real long-term victim has been Dubai's self-esteem. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, Dubai's ruler, has had to pull back from the vision that saw the emirate as \"an Arab city of global significance, to rival Cordoba and Baghdad\".Instead, he has turned to Abu Dhabi, the rich but not much liked \"big brother\" of the UAE federation, for a handout. And \"Dubai Inc\" has had to trim its plans to be biggest, tallest and most expensive in everything from man-made islands to luxury hotels.The crisis hit Dubai so hard because it is not an archetypal oil-rich Gulf state. Its oil began to run out in the 1990s and now comprises around 3% of GDP. To their credit, the al-Maktoum dynasty saw this coming and set in train the process of economic diversification that sparked Dubai's emergence as a hub for tourism, air-travel, regional commerce and financial services. Dubai swapped oil dependence for real-estate dependence, with perhaps 40% of all economic activity related to property.When times were good and credit cheap, this strategy served the emirate well. Dubai Inc performed like a giant operating company, funding growth through borrowing and cash-generation. But the credit crunch hit the emirate at just the wrong phase of the cycle, when borrowings had hit $80bn.For a while, the reaction was denial, and warning signs were downplayed in the muzzled press. But when the ruling elite pulled their heads out of the sand, a series of crisis measures were enacted - an Abu Dhabi-backed $20bn bond issue, injections of liquidity into the financial system, and the establishment of a committee of the emirates' leading businessmen to oversee a recovery strategy.The first signs of recovery are perceptible. House prices rose by 5% last month, banks are lending again and the cranes are moving once more over the bigger construction projects. Green shoots are visible - just.But all eyes now are on the forecast emigration of expats as the fierce summer takes hold. Just how many decide to return to their \"Dubai dream\" will determine how quickly the emirate pulls of out of its nosedive.\u2022 Frank Kane is a columnist with The National of Abu Dhabi. These are his own views.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Economic recovery", "Construction industry", "Housing market", "Business", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "The gender gap", "Education", "Media", "Qatar"], "title": "Beyond oil: a Switzerland in the sands"},{"date": "2009-06-22T20:04:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland faces economic sanctions if it delays opening up its notoriously secretive banks to international scrutiny. The threat will be made today by world finance ministers in a key meeting to discuss how to broaden the crackdown on tax havens that are draining exchequers of tens of billions of dollars each year.The meeting of finance ministers in Berlin will report on progress towards complying with new international demands on tax transparency following the G20 summit in London in April. Failure to comply will be greeted with \"hostility\" warned one official. Unlike at London, Switzerland has been invited to attend.The Swiss are rushing to sign bilateral information-sharing agreements with 12 countries by the end of the year. So far it has agreed six but it needs 12 treaties to remove itself from a \"grey list\" of countries deemed not to have met international tax transparency standards.Switzerland reached a double tax agreement with the United States last week. However, its leading bank, UBS, still faces a potentially damaging court trial next month for its part in a tax evasion scandal allegedly involving up to 52,000 US account holders. It has also suffered a huge outflow of money from its private banks in recent months as the wealthy grow nervous that the end of Swiss bank secrecy is coming closer.Jeffrey Owens, director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said last week that summit participants would stipulate what signs of progress they expect to see from countries on the list, and also suggested that the patience of world powers with tax havens such as Liechtenstein, the Caymans and Switzerland was running out. \"Political tolerance for non-compliance is headed rapidly towards zero,\" he said. Owens added, however, that there had been a great deal of progress on the tax haven issue over the last six months.But campaigners argue that the weight of evidence required by tax \u00adinvestigators to force tax haven officials to hand over details of accounts on suspected tax evaders is so onerous that the current treaties are ineffective. There is pressure on the OECD, the thinktank of leading nations which sets international tax standards, to force countries to sign more treaties and to introduce automatic information-sharing agreements.Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, will use the Berlin meeting today to call for the introduction of a radical new measure to force global firms to reveal exactly the profits they make and the tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in. Known as country-by-country reporting, the proposal is likely to gain strong support from the French and Germans as a way of ensuring countries economies can weather the financial crisis that has destroyed tax revenues.The role of tax incentives in propagating the bank crisis is also likely to come under the microscope following a recent IMF paper arguing that \"tax distortions are likely to have encouraged excessive leveraging and other financial market problems evident in the crisis\". Private equity firms, in particular, have used tax incentives on debt to finance corporate raids that are now unwinding.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "UBS", "Switzerland", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland faces sanctions over banking secrecy"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It's reality TV, but not as we know it. While we have been gripped by the rise and fall of Susan Boyle on Britain's Got Talent, viewers in Qatar are tuning in to Stars of Science, a new reality show beamed across the Arab world, where brainy youngsters compete to produce the best invention.Among the hopefuls is Hashem al-Sada, a 22-year-old Qatari who is not a star on YouTube, but has devised a tent fitted with solar panels for electricity generation. The show has deliberately eschewed the cruelty of booting out losing candidates: instead, they are invited to team up with successful competitors. Stars of Science encapsulates the huge faith Qatar puts in research and innovation; the contrast between it and our version of reality TV also says something about the arrogance of assuming western cultural values are automatically superior, though that's another story. It is not just the TV that is different in Doha. Flying from a downbeat London into the vast, pristine international air terminal is like arriving in another world. The commercial property market in the UK is on its knees, but in the West Bay business district gleaming towers are springing up in the blistering 50C heat. They bear witness to the determination to reduce Qatar's dependence on oil and gas by building a sort of Canary Wharf in the desert - only without the excessive bonuses and the ruinous risk-taking.While Gordon Brown's grip on government has been weakened by the crunch and the MPs' expenses scandal, the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa al-Thani, does not have to deal with the inconvenience of an electorate and has been able to press quietly ahead with plans to diversify the economy.Dr Tidu Maini is executive chairman of the Qatar Science and Technology Park, set up to commercialise research in energy, the environment, healthcare and IT; he recently established an experimental facility with Qatari company GreenGulf to study solar-to-electricity conversion methods. \"Instead of putting our money into a solar company in the UK or Germany, we are investing in our own country,\" he says. \"There is nobody doing what we are doing in a comprehensive and strategic way.\"With a dry smile, he adds: \"But it's easy for us because we are a small country and don't have a corrupt parliament.\"As Britain remains in recession, Qatar's per capita income has crossed the $70,000 (\u00a343,000) a head mark, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world. The Qatar Central Bank estimates growth of 7-9% for this year; the IMF predicts growth of 15-18%. Whatever: these are figures Alistair Darling would give his second home for. Dubai, which has little in the way of oil and gas, may have gone through a highly leveraged boom and bust (see below), but Qatar is in a very different position.It is currently running a small budget deficit - the first for nearly a decade - because oil prices have been low, although if they show a sustained improvement, that will be eradicated by the end of the fiscal year. But it has a good credit rating, and, most important, it has about 90 years' worth of oil reserves and more than 200 years of gas production. Not that there is any schadenfreude at Dubai's downfall; the feeling is that the whole region will have to support Dubai for the sake of collective credibility.Neither have the Qataris got too overwrought about the recent rise in the oil price to a six-month high above $67 a barrel, which has led some commentators to speculate about a resurgence of the petro-powers. Opec, the oil producers' cartel, wants to see the price stabilise at around $75 a barrel, which it reckons is the level needed to ensure investment in new supplies. Whether or not that pans out, the Qataris are interested in moving beyond petro-power and rebasing their economy so they are not hostage to a volatile oil price.Ahmad Anani, a partner in the Al-Tamimi law firm in Doha, says: \"I don't think Qatar perceives itself as a petro-power in the conventional sense ... There is no interest in flexing their muscles like Vladimir Putin, or in blowing money in Mayfair casinos. They are using the money to develop the country.\"Qatar has been cushioned from the global downturn by its position as the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG) - gas that has been turned into liquid form, making it easier to ship around the world. The UK is a big customer: the Queen and the Emir opened a new LNG terminal in Milford Haven last month. But despite the fact that LNG is a superb resource, the Qataris see no reason to rest on their laurels.Phillip Thorpe, chairman and chief executive of the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) Regulatory Authority, says: \"Whether oil is at a sustainable level is anyone's guess. The real point is that there has been a maturity around the way the government is approaching oil and gas revenue. It is a wonderful bounty today, but what about tomorrow? There are decades of gas reserves and you would think it's a good reason to go to the beach - but that is not future-proofing the economy.\"Thorpe is a key player in one form of future-proofing: the push to turn Doha into a regional financial centre - a Switzerland in the sand, with insurance and wealth management as major elements. The QFC's headquarters, where Thorpe has his offices, are in a building that is only a few years old - though that makes it practically an ancient monument by the standards of West Bay. It started in 2005; now it has 113 staff and licensed its 100th institution at the end of last year, a Qatari full-service Islamic bank. Next month it will launch Qatar Insurance Services, a system for processing and trading between insurers and reinsurers, with 17 firms as strategic partners.Another major initiative is the setting up of the Qatar Finance and Business Academy, to try to ensure there are enough well-trained local staff to run a 21st-century financial centre. Jon Morton, QFC's director for financial development and a former deputy principal of Henley Management College, says: \"We need to concentrate on middle-management talent - things like the English language, and a focus on the customer, not an internal focus.\"The structure and the skills of the population are a serious challenge. Of the 1.5 million residents, only around 250,000 or so are native Qataris; the rest are expats. It means very few people will be supporting what could be a very large and turbocharged economic engine. Mohamad Moabi, assistant general manager with Qatar National Bank, says: \"The challenge is to develop citizens for a post-oil economy. A knowledge-based economy is very important.\"To that end, education is free from kindergarten to university level. The seriousness of the commitment to learning is manifest in Education City, a 14 sq km development on the outskirts of Doha that houses not only schools but outposts of leading US universities such as Cornell, Georgetown and Carnegie Mellon. As one British expat sighs: \"If my kids were Qatari citizens, all my worries about education would be over.\"Dr Mohamed Fathy Saoud, president of the Qatar Foundation, which backs Education City, says: \"Human resources are more important than oil and gas resources. We are bringing one of the brightest facets of western civilisation to the region: the top universities. If you talk to people on the street they will be opposed to what the US and the UK did in Iraq, but this project is saying 'look beyond that to what these countries have contributed to education and research'.\"The sheer pace of economic development is throwing up social and cultural issues. One is the situation of women. The Emir's consort, Sheikha Mozah, plays a highly visible role in a region where royal wives until recently were rarely seen and certainly never heard.While it is a deeply conservative society, Qatari women can vote, drive and play a full part in the workplace: headscarves are a frequent sight, but the dress code for women is not as strict as in Saudi. Dr Sheikha Abdulla al-Misnad, president of Qatar University, says about half her staff and 70% of her students are women. \"We are very proud of how well our young women are doing, but there is an issue about our young men. Girls work hard and get better grades in high school, while young men drop out.\" Girls have been high achievers partly because of cultural expectations, she adds. \"Society expects women to work in a safe and professional environment, in a high status job, not to be in low-skill jobs and this is part of the reason why they are they are so determined to succeed academically. It is creating social problems because women are finding their marriage suitors are less qualified. \"The number of single women is increasing. It is difficult for lots of young professional women to find a husband. People don't have taboos about women in education because when education started in Qatar it started for both men and women from the outset, unlike many universities in the West which had been were exclusively for men for decades before women were granted access to higher education.\" None the less, the divide may be creating social tensions simply because the women are finding many eligible bachelors less qualified than they are. While the Qataris are keen to show visitors their sunlit uplands, one does have a sense of a reserved, multi-layered, complex society where difficult topics are not discussed, particularly with western journalists. Qatar has been keen to establish itself as the focal point of the new Arab media: its flagship broadcaster is Al-Jazeera, founded in 1996 and regulated by the UK's Ofcom in the hope of fending off accusations of bias, and the Doha Centre for Media Freedom was set up last year. Participants don't pull punches in the Doha Debates, a forum for free speech tackling the region's thorniest issues. In the most recent, the vote was in favour of letting Muslim women marry men of their choice. However, the media has a deferential air and the line is that the press should be free, but \"respectful\".Thorpe, who was pushed out of his job as head of the Dubai financial regulator after objecting to interference from above, says he is able to operate in Qatar without fear or favour: \"The message being sent out by the Emir and the government is that everyone has to abide by the rules.\" But it's important to remember who makes the rules. The Emir, who deposed his father in a bloodless coup in 1995, may be an enlightened monarch who has moved towards democracy, but there is no doubt who is in charge.The credit crunch has led to greater questioning of the western economic and social model. As Moabi says: \"Excessive risk-taking and innovation in financial products really hurt the financial system ... Who would have thought that GM would be filing for bankruptcy? We don't have MPs abusing expenses, or Madoffs. Our image of western people is not tarnished, but our image of the system is.\"Like the UK, Qatar is a small nation punching above its weight. Like the UK, it wants to become a knowledge-based economy. Like Tony Blair, it has a leader who believes in education, education, education. Perhaps - unlike the UK, which failed to husband its oil wealth - it will make wise use of its windfall.Dubai has been through a painful learning experience over the past six months. The boomtown of the Gulf, bling capital of the Middle East and the most globalised of the region's economies, it has born the brunt of the world's financial hurricane.Casualties range from the property speculators who lost millions in the 65% collapse of real estate prices to the sun-seeking expatriates who have quit their tax-free beachside lifestyles, down to the lowly-paid construction workers who have been \"relocated\" to other projects in the Gulf or back to their homes in Kerala or Guangdong.But perhaps the real long-term victim has been Dubai's self-esteem. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, Dubai's ruler, has had to pull back from the vision that saw the emirate as \"an Arab city of global significance, to rival Cordoba and Baghdad\".Instead, he has turned to Abu Dhabi, the rich but not much liked \"big brother\" of the UAE federation, for a handout. And \"Dubai Inc\" has had to trim its plans to be biggest, tallest and most expensive in everything from man-made islands to luxury hotels.The crisis hit Dubai so hard because it is not an archetypal oil-rich Gulf state. Its oil began to run out in the 1990s and now comprises around 3% of GDP. To their credit, the al-Maktoum dynasty saw this coming and set in train the process of economic diversification that sparked Dubai's emergence as a hub for tourism, air-travel, regional commerce and financial services. Dubai swapped oil dependence for real-estate dependence, with perhaps 40% of all economic activity related to property.When times were good and credit cheap, this strategy served the emirate well. Dubai Inc performed like a giant operating company, funding growth through borrowing and cash-generation. But the credit crunch hit the emirate at just the wrong phase of the cycle, when borrowings had hit $80bn.For a while, the reaction was denial, and warning signs were downplayed in the muzzled press. But when the ruling elite pulled their heads out of the sand, a series of crisis measures were enacted - an Abu Dhabi-backed $20bn bond issue, injections of liquidity into the financial system, and the establishment of a committee of the emirates' leading businessmen to oversee a recovery strategy.The first signs of recovery are perceptible. House prices rose by 5% last month, banks are lending again and the cranes are moving once more over the bigger construction projects. Green shoots are visible - just.But all eyes now are on the forecast emigration of expats as the fierce summer takes hold. Just how many decide to return to their \"Dubai dream\" will determine how quickly the emirate pulls of out of its nosedive.\u2022 Frank Kane is a columnist with The National of Abu Dhabi. These are his own views.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Economic recovery", "Construction industry", "Housing market", "Business", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "The gender gap", "Education", "Media", "Qatar"], "title": "Beyond oil: a Switzerland in the sands"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "As soon as Alistair Darling revealed the 50% income tax rate for those earning over \u00a3150,000 on Wednesday, he was accused of saving the wrong economy. Rather than filling the Treasury's empty coffers, the move would benefit fiscally lenient countries such as Switzerland, said some commentators. One thinktank estimated that around 25,000 high-end taxpayers would shift tax regimes, with the low-tax cantons of Switzerland the biggest beneficiaries.At least one relocation company has already seen a spike in inquiries about living the Alpine life since the budget. \"In the 24 hours afterwards, we saw a 41% increase in people in the UK searching for Switzerland, compared to Monday,\" said Anne Wright of estate agents Prime Location International.It's one thing doing an idle internet search, another entirely for Britain's highest earners to actually swap the bright lights of the City for the sedate charms of Z\u00fcrich or Zermatt. After all, the exodus predicted last time the bank balances of the super-rich were supposedly under threat - when the government moved to change the laws around \"non-doms\" - never materialised. And, to paraphrase Orson Welles in The Third Man, what does Switzerland really have to offer the masters of the universe beyond longevous brotherly love and cuckoo clocks?The answer, as Lewis Hamilton, Tina Turner, David Bowie and all of the other megarich celebrities who relocated there will no doubt be too coy to admit, is: the lowest taxes in Europe.\"How much tax you pay in Switzerland depends on whether you are single, married or have children, how much you earn and where you live,\" said Gema Ricart of the Swiss government's finance department. A study by BAK Basle Economic says high earners would pay the lowest taxes in Switzerland by moving to Zug, in the middle of the country. There, a single, highly qualified person earning \u20ac100,000 a year would pay just 22%, compared with 38.2% in the UK.For the really rich, the Swiss have cooked up a rather nice deal they call the taxe \u00e0 forfait. This lump sum tax politely ignores the money you actually make and simply assesses your annual consumption, typically by multiplying the deemed or actual rental income on your home in Switzerland. This figure is multiplied by five and then taxed at normal Swiss tax rates. So even if you're lording it up in a luxury chalet in Zug costing \u00a3100,000 a year, you will pay no more than \u00a362,500 in taxes. If you're Bernie Ecclestone with an estimated \u00a32.4bn fortune, the attractions are obvious.But so are the drawbacks. Jonathan Ivinson, head of European tax at Hogan & Hartson, spends most of his time in Geneva. \"It is a very different pace of life to London,\" he said. \"If you want to have a choice of more than three things to do in an evening, it's probably not for you. One major British company looked at relocating to Switzerland, but when the directors went to have a look there, they realised there was absolutely no way. It just seemed too tedious for them. But with this 50% tax, you can imagine more people giving it serious consideration, especially those with software or IT businesses, which aren't tied to a location.\"Lewis Tonkinson, director of Pinnacle Marketing Communications, said: \"I have considered it. My company brings in \u00a32m each year from abroad in fees. What is the point in working 12-hour days to give it to the government?\"But many Swiss are fed up of their country being known primarily as a tax haven. \"It is a pity we are known first as a low-tax country,\" said Patrick Djizmedjian from OSEC, which promotes the country abroad as a potential business location. \"We don't just want to be known for that. Switzerland is an attractive location for many other reasons: we have very good infrastructure, a good transport system where workers hardly ever strike, and we are based in the heart of Europe.\"Switzerland might also not be a low tax mecca for ever. \"In Z\u00fcrich recently, people voted to abolish the lump sum tax in a referendum,\" said Ricart. \"So Tina Turner might be moving.\"", "tags": ["Budget", "UK news", "Income tax", "Money", "Switzerland", "World news", "Alistair Darling", "Politics", "Tax and spending", "Economics", "Business", "Budget 2009", "Europe"], "title": "Income tax rise: Alpine life tempts, but rich may end on slippery slope"},{"date": "2009-06-22T20:04:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland faces economic sanctions if it delays opening up its notoriously secretive banks to international scrutiny. The threat will be made today by world finance ministers in a key meeting to discuss how to broaden the crackdown on tax havens that are draining exchequers of tens of billions of dollars each year.The meeting of finance ministers in Berlin will report on progress towards complying with new international demands on tax transparency following the G20 summit in London in April. Failure to comply will be greeted with \"hostility\" warned one official. Unlike at London, Switzerland has been invited to attend.The Swiss are rushing to sign bilateral information-sharing agreements with 12 countries by the end of the year. So far it has agreed six but it needs 12 treaties to remove itself from a \"grey list\" of countries deemed not to have met international tax transparency standards.Switzerland reached a double tax agreement with the United States last week. However, its leading bank, UBS, still faces a potentially damaging court trial next month for its part in a tax evasion scandal allegedly involving up to 52,000 US account holders. It has also suffered a huge outflow of money from its private banks in recent months as the wealthy grow nervous that the end of Swiss bank secrecy is coming closer.Jeffrey Owens, director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said last week that summit participants would stipulate what signs of progress they expect to see from countries on the list, and also suggested that the patience of world powers with tax havens such as Liechtenstein, the Caymans and Switzerland was running out. \"Political tolerance for non-compliance is headed rapidly towards zero,\" he said. Owens added, however, that there had been a great deal of progress on the tax haven issue over the last six months.But campaigners argue that the weight of evidence required by tax \u00adinvestigators to force tax haven officials to hand over details of accounts on suspected tax evaders is so onerous that the current treaties are ineffective. There is pressure on the OECD, the thinktank of leading nations which sets international tax standards, to force countries to sign more treaties and to introduce automatic information-sharing agreements.Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, will use the Berlin meeting today to call for the introduction of a radical new measure to force global firms to reveal exactly the profits they make and the tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in. Known as country-by-country reporting, the proposal is likely to gain strong support from the French and Germans as a way of ensuring countries economies can weather the financial crisis that has destroyed tax revenues.The role of tax incentives in propagating the bank crisis is also likely to come under the microscope following a recent IMF paper arguing that \"tax distortions are likely to have encouraged excessive leveraging and other financial market problems evident in the crisis\". Private equity firms, in particular, have used tax incentives on debt to finance corporate raids that are now unwinding.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "UBS", "Switzerland", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland faces sanctions over banking secrecy"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It's reality TV, but not as we know it. While we have been gripped by the rise and fall of Susan Boyle on Britain's Got Talent, viewers in Qatar are tuning in to Stars of Science, a new reality show beamed across the Arab world, where brainy youngsters compete to produce the best invention.Among the hopefuls is Hashem al-Sada, a 22-year-old Qatari who is not a star on YouTube, but has devised a tent fitted with solar panels for electricity generation. The show has deliberately eschewed the cruelty of booting out losing candidates: instead, they are invited to team up with successful competitors. Stars of Science encapsulates the huge faith Qatar puts in research and innovation; the contrast between it and our version of reality TV also says something about the arrogance of assuming western cultural values are automatically superior, though that's another story. It is not just the TV that is different in Doha. Flying from a downbeat London into the vast, pristine international air terminal is like arriving in another world. The commercial property market in the UK is on its knees, but in the West Bay business district gleaming towers are springing up in the blistering 50C heat. They bear witness to the determination to reduce Qatar's dependence on oil and gas by building a sort of Canary Wharf in the desert - only without the excessive bonuses and the ruinous risk-taking.While Gordon Brown's grip on government has been weakened by the crunch and the MPs' expenses scandal, the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa al-Thani, does not have to deal with the inconvenience of an electorate and has been able to press quietly ahead with plans to diversify the economy.Dr Tidu Maini is executive chairman of the Qatar Science and Technology Park, set up to commercialise research in energy, the environment, healthcare and IT; he recently established an experimental facility with Qatari company GreenGulf to study solar-to-electricity conversion methods. \"Instead of putting our money into a solar company in the UK or Germany, we are investing in our own country,\" he says. \"There is nobody doing what we are doing in a comprehensive and strategic way.\"With a dry smile, he adds: \"But it's easy for us because we are a small country and don't have a corrupt parliament.\"As Britain remains in recession, Qatar's per capita income has crossed the $70,000 (\u00a343,000) a head mark, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world. The Qatar Central Bank estimates growth of 7-9% for this year; the IMF predicts growth of 15-18%. Whatever: these are figures Alistair Darling would give his second home for. Dubai, which has little in the way of oil and gas, may have gone through a highly leveraged boom and bust (see below), but Qatar is in a very different position.It is currently running a small budget deficit - the first for nearly a decade - because oil prices have been low, although if they show a sustained improvement, that will be eradicated by the end of the fiscal year. But it has a good credit rating, and, most important, it has about 90 years' worth of oil reserves and more than 200 years of gas production. Not that there is any schadenfreude at Dubai's downfall; the feeling is that the whole region will have to support Dubai for the sake of collective credibility.Neither have the Qataris got too overwrought about the recent rise in the oil price to a six-month high above $67 a barrel, which has led some commentators to speculate about a resurgence of the petro-powers. Opec, the oil producers' cartel, wants to see the price stabilise at around $75 a barrel, which it reckons is the level needed to ensure investment in new supplies. Whether or not that pans out, the Qataris are interested in moving beyond petro-power and rebasing their economy so they are not hostage to a volatile oil price.Ahmad Anani, a partner in the Al-Tamimi law firm in Doha, says: \"I don't think Qatar perceives itself as a petro-power in the conventional sense ... There is no interest in flexing their muscles like Vladimir Putin, or in blowing money in Mayfair casinos. They are using the money to develop the country.\"Qatar has been cushioned from the global downturn by its position as the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG) - gas that has been turned into liquid form, making it easier to ship around the world. The UK is a big customer: the Queen and the Emir opened a new LNG terminal in Milford Haven last month. But despite the fact that LNG is a superb resource, the Qataris see no reason to rest on their laurels.Phillip Thorpe, chairman and chief executive of the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) Regulatory Authority, says: \"Whether oil is at a sustainable level is anyone's guess. The real point is that there has been a maturity around the way the government is approaching oil and gas revenue. It is a wonderful bounty today, but what about tomorrow? There are decades of gas reserves and you would think it's a good reason to go to the beach - but that is not future-proofing the economy.\"Thorpe is a key player in one form of future-proofing: the push to turn Doha into a regional financial centre - a Switzerland in the sand, with insurance and wealth management as major elements. The QFC's headquarters, where Thorpe has his offices, are in a building that is only a few years old - though that makes it practically an ancient monument by the standards of West Bay. It started in 2005; now it has 113 staff and licensed its 100th institution at the end of last year, a Qatari full-service Islamic bank. Next month it will launch Qatar Insurance Services, a system for processing and trading between insurers and reinsurers, with 17 firms as strategic partners.Another major initiative is the setting up of the Qatar Finance and Business Academy, to try to ensure there are enough well-trained local staff to run a 21st-century financial centre. Jon Morton, QFC's director for financial development and a former deputy principal of Henley Management College, says: \"We need to concentrate on middle-management talent - things like the English language, and a focus on the customer, not an internal focus.\"The structure and the skills of the population are a serious challenge. Of the 1.5 million residents, only around 250,000 or so are native Qataris; the rest are expats. It means very few people will be supporting what could be a very large and turbocharged economic engine. Mohamad Moabi, assistant general manager with Qatar National Bank, says: \"The challenge is to develop citizens for a post-oil economy. A knowledge-based economy is very important.\"To that end, education is free from kindergarten to university level. The seriousness of the commitment to learning is manifest in Education City, a 14 sq km development on the outskirts of Doha that houses not only schools but outposts of leading US universities such as Cornell, Georgetown and Carnegie Mellon. As one British expat sighs: \"If my kids were Qatari citizens, all my worries about education would be over.\"Dr Mohamed Fathy Saoud, president of the Qatar Foundation, which backs Education City, says: \"Human resources are more important than oil and gas resources. We are bringing one of the brightest facets of western civilisation to the region: the top universities. If you talk to people on the street they will be opposed to what the US and the UK did in Iraq, but this project is saying 'look beyond that to what these countries have contributed to education and research'.\"The sheer pace of economic development is throwing up social and cultural issues. One is the situation of women. The Emir's consort, Sheikha Mozah, plays a highly visible role in a region where royal wives until recently were rarely seen and certainly never heard.While it is a deeply conservative society, Qatari women can vote, drive and play a full part in the workplace: headscarves are a frequent sight, but the dress code for women is not as strict as in Saudi. Dr Sheikha Abdulla al-Misnad, president of Qatar University, says about half her staff and 70% of her students are women. \"We are very proud of how well our young women are doing, but there is an issue about our young men. Girls work hard and get better grades in high school, while young men drop out.\" Girls have been high achievers partly because of cultural expectations, she adds. \"Society expects women to work in a safe and professional environment, in a high status job, not to be in low-skill jobs and this is part of the reason why they are they are so determined to succeed academically. It is creating social problems because women are finding their marriage suitors are less qualified. \"The number of single women is increasing. It is difficult for lots of young professional women to find a husband. People don't have taboos about women in education because when education started in Qatar it started for both men and women from the outset, unlike many universities in the West which had been were exclusively for men for decades before women were granted access to higher education.\" None the less, the divide may be creating social tensions simply because the women are finding many eligible bachelors less qualified than they are. While the Qataris are keen to show visitors their sunlit uplands, one does have a sense of a reserved, multi-layered, complex society where difficult topics are not discussed, particularly with western journalists. Qatar has been keen to establish itself as the focal point of the new Arab media: its flagship broadcaster is Al-Jazeera, founded in 1996 and regulated by the UK's Ofcom in the hope of fending off accusations of bias, and the Doha Centre for Media Freedom was set up last year. Participants don't pull punches in the Doha Debates, a forum for free speech tackling the region's thorniest issues. In the most recent, the vote was in favour of letting Muslim women marry men of their choice. However, the media has a deferential air and the line is that the press should be free, but \"respectful\".Thorpe, who was pushed out of his job as head of the Dubai financial regulator after objecting to interference from above, says he is able to operate in Qatar without fear or favour: \"The message being sent out by the Emir and the government is that everyone has to abide by the rules.\" But it's important to remember who makes the rules. The Emir, who deposed his father in a bloodless coup in 1995, may be an enlightened monarch who has moved towards democracy, but there is no doubt who is in charge.The credit crunch has led to greater questioning of the western economic and social model. As Moabi says: \"Excessive risk-taking and innovation in financial products really hurt the financial system ... Who would have thought that GM would be filing for bankruptcy? We don't have MPs abusing expenses, or Madoffs. Our image of western people is not tarnished, but our image of the system is.\"Like the UK, Qatar is a small nation punching above its weight. Like the UK, it wants to become a knowledge-based economy. Like Tony Blair, it has a leader who believes in education, education, education. Perhaps - unlike the UK, which failed to husband its oil wealth - it will make wise use of its windfall.Dubai has been through a painful learning experience over the past six months. The boomtown of the Gulf, bling capital of the Middle East and the most globalised of the region's economies, it has born the brunt of the world's financial hurricane.Casualties range from the property speculators who lost millions in the 65% collapse of real estate prices to the sun-seeking expatriates who have quit their tax-free beachside lifestyles, down to the lowly-paid construction workers who have been \"relocated\" to other projects in the Gulf or back to their homes in Kerala or Guangdong.But perhaps the real long-term victim has been Dubai's self-esteem. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, Dubai's ruler, has had to pull back from the vision that saw the emirate as \"an Arab city of global significance, to rival Cordoba and Baghdad\".Instead, he has turned to Abu Dhabi, the rich but not much liked \"big brother\" of the UAE federation, for a handout. And \"Dubai Inc\" has had to trim its plans to be biggest, tallest and most expensive in everything from man-made islands to luxury hotels.The crisis hit Dubai so hard because it is not an archetypal oil-rich Gulf state. Its oil began to run out in the 1990s and now comprises around 3% of GDP. To their credit, the al-Maktoum dynasty saw this coming and set in train the process of economic diversification that sparked Dubai's emergence as a hub for tourism, air-travel, regional commerce and financial services. Dubai swapped oil dependence for real-estate dependence, with perhaps 40% of all economic activity related to property.When times were good and credit cheap, this strategy served the emirate well. Dubai Inc performed like a giant operating company, funding growth through borrowing and cash-generation. But the credit crunch hit the emirate at just the wrong phase of the cycle, when borrowings had hit $80bn.For a while, the reaction was denial, and warning signs were downplayed in the muzzled press. But when the ruling elite pulled their heads out of the sand, a series of crisis measures were enacted - an Abu Dhabi-backed $20bn bond issue, injections of liquidity into the financial system, and the establishment of a committee of the emirates' leading businessmen to oversee a recovery strategy.The first signs of recovery are perceptible. House prices rose by 5% last month, banks are lending again and the cranes are moving once more over the bigger construction projects. Green shoots are visible - just.But all eyes now are on the forecast emigration of expats as the fierce summer takes hold. Just how many decide to return to their \"Dubai dream\" will determine how quickly the emirate pulls of out of its nosedive.\u2022 Frank Kane is a columnist with The National of Abu Dhabi. These are his own views.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Economic recovery", "Construction industry", "Housing market", "Business", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "The gender gap", "Education", "Media", "Qatar"], "title": "Beyond oil: a Switzerland in the sands"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "As soon as Alistair Darling revealed the 50% income tax rate for those earning over \u00a3150,000 on Wednesday, he was accused of saving the wrong economy. Rather than filling the Treasury's empty coffers, the move would benefit fiscally lenient countries such as Switzerland, said some commentators. One thinktank estimated that around 25,000 high-end taxpayers would shift tax regimes, with the low-tax cantons of Switzerland the biggest beneficiaries.At least one relocation company has already seen a spike in inquiries about living the Alpine life since the budget. \"In the 24 hours afterwards, we saw a 41% increase in people in the UK searching for Switzerland, compared to Monday,\" said Anne Wright of estate agents Prime Location International.It's one thing doing an idle internet search, another entirely for Britain's highest earners to actually swap the bright lights of the City for the sedate charms of Z\u00fcrich or Zermatt. After all, the exodus predicted last time the bank balances of the super-rich were supposedly under threat - when the government moved to change the laws around \"non-doms\" - never materialised. And, to paraphrase Orson Welles in The Third Man, what does Switzerland really have to offer the masters of the universe beyond longevous brotherly love and cuckoo clocks?The answer, as Lewis Hamilton, Tina Turner, David Bowie and all of the other megarich celebrities who relocated there will no doubt be too coy to admit, is: the lowest taxes in Europe.\"How much tax you pay in Switzerland depends on whether you are single, married or have children, how much you earn and where you live,\" said Gema Ricart of the Swiss government's finance department. A study by BAK Basle Economic says high earners would pay the lowest taxes in Switzerland by moving to Zug, in the middle of the country. There, a single, highly qualified person earning \u20ac100,000 a year would pay just 22%, compared with 38.2% in the UK.For the really rich, the Swiss have cooked up a rather nice deal they call the taxe \u00e0 forfait. This lump sum tax politely ignores the money you actually make and simply assesses your annual consumption, typically by multiplying the deemed or actual rental income on your home in Switzerland. This figure is multiplied by five and then taxed at normal Swiss tax rates. So even if you're lording it up in a luxury chalet in Zug costing \u00a3100,000 a year, you will pay no more than \u00a362,500 in taxes. If you're Bernie Ecclestone with an estimated \u00a32.4bn fortune, the attractions are obvious.But so are the drawbacks. Jonathan Ivinson, head of European tax at Hogan & Hartson, spends most of his time in Geneva. \"It is a very different pace of life to London,\" he said. \"If you want to have a choice of more than three things to do in an evening, it's probably not for you. One major British company looked at relocating to Switzerland, but when the directors went to have a look there, they realised there was absolutely no way. It just seemed too tedious for them. But with this 50% tax, you can imagine more people giving it serious consideration, especially those with software or IT businesses, which aren't tied to a location.\"Lewis Tonkinson, director of Pinnacle Marketing Communications, said: \"I have considered it. My company brings in \u00a32m each year from abroad in fees. What is the point in working 12-hour days to give it to the government?\"But many Swiss are fed up of their country being known primarily as a tax haven. \"It is a pity we are known first as a low-tax country,\" said Patrick Djizmedjian from OSEC, which promotes the country abroad as a potential business location. \"We don't just want to be known for that. Switzerland is an attractive location for many other reasons: we have very good infrastructure, a good transport system where workers hardly ever strike, and we are based in the heart of Europe.\"Switzerland might also not be a low tax mecca for ever. \"In Z\u00fcrich recently, people voted to abolish the lump sum tax in a referendum,\" said Ricart. \"So Tina Turner might be moving.\"", "tags": ["Budget", "UK news", "Income tax", "Money", "Switzerland", "World news", "Alistair Darling", "Politics", "Tax and spending", "Economics", "Business", "Budget 2009", "Europe"], "title": "Income tax rise: Alpine life tempts, but rich may end on slippery slope"},{"date": "2009-06-18T23:05:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Mark Cavendish yesterday won his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland, beating the former world champion Oscar Freire in Bad Zurzach with his customary quick acceleration. It was the 24-year-old's 13th win of the season, and he is well on track to beat last year's 17 victories, his best as a professional.The Briton paid tribute to his Columbia-Highroad team-mates, who gave him the perfect lead-out to launch his sprint. \"It was easy to win here today,\" he said. \"[My team-mate] George Hincapie brought me into a good position, and I moved around [Thor] Hushovd. I was quite tired [at the start of the stage], it was a difficult, technical course, and the finale was very physical.\"With the start of the Tour de France just over a fortnight away, Cavendish's form in Switzerland augurs well for his chances of adding to his four stage wins last year. And his chances of also targeting the green jersey, for most consistent sprinter, were boosted last night with the Tour de France organisers, ASO, confirming that Tom Boonen, a former green jersey winner, would be banned from this year's race after his positive test for cocaine in April.Lance Armstrong's Tour de France challenge also remains on track, with his team, Astana, announcing yesterday that its financial problems have been resolved until the end of the season. Having missed a payment deadline to the International Cycling Union on Tuesday evening the Kazakh-backed team faced suspension, but it seems that the squad has been bailed out by the Kazakh government.\"Thanks to the guarantees made by the Kazakh government we can continue,\" said the team's manager, Johan Bruyneel. \"The government showed that \u2013 despite the economic crisis \u2013 they really want to invest in cycling [and] they succeeded in finding funds.\" It had been reported that the team faced a shortfall of $9m (\u00a35.5m).", "tags": ["Tour de France 2009", "Mark Cavendish", "Lance Armstrong", "Tour de France", "Cycling"], "title": "Mark Cavendish wins his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-06-22T20:04:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland faces economic sanctions if it delays opening up its notoriously secretive banks to international scrutiny. The threat will be made today by world finance ministers in a key meeting to discuss how to broaden the crackdown on tax havens that are draining exchequers of tens of billions of dollars each year.The meeting of finance ministers in Berlin will report on progress towards complying with new international demands on tax transparency following the G20 summit in London in April. Failure to comply will be greeted with \"hostility\" warned one official. Unlike at London, Switzerland has been invited to attend.The Swiss are rushing to sign bilateral information-sharing agreements with 12 countries by the end of the year. So far it has agreed six but it needs 12 treaties to remove itself from a \"grey list\" of countries deemed not to have met international tax transparency standards.Switzerland reached a double tax agreement with the United States last week. However, its leading bank, UBS, still faces a potentially damaging court trial next month for its part in a tax evasion scandal allegedly involving up to 52,000 US account holders. It has also suffered a huge outflow of money from its private banks in recent months as the wealthy grow nervous that the end of Swiss bank secrecy is coming closer.Jeffrey Owens, director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said last week that summit participants would stipulate what signs of progress they expect to see from countries on the list, and also suggested that the patience of world powers with tax havens such as Liechtenstein, the Caymans and Switzerland was running out. \"Political tolerance for non-compliance is headed rapidly towards zero,\" he said. Owens added, however, that there had been a great deal of progress on the tax haven issue over the last six months.But campaigners argue that the weight of evidence required by tax \u00adinvestigators to force tax haven officials to hand over details of accounts on suspected tax evaders is so onerous that the current treaties are ineffective. There is pressure on the OECD, the thinktank of leading nations which sets international tax standards, to force countries to sign more treaties and to introduce automatic information-sharing agreements.Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, will use the Berlin meeting today to call for the introduction of a radical new measure to force global firms to reveal exactly the profits they make and the tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in. Known as country-by-country reporting, the proposal is likely to gain strong support from the French and Germans as a way of ensuring countries economies can weather the financial crisis that has destroyed tax revenues.The role of tax incentives in propagating the bank crisis is also likely to come under the microscope following a recent IMF paper arguing that \"tax distortions are likely to have encouraged excessive leveraging and other financial market problems evident in the crisis\". Private equity firms, in particular, have used tax incentives on debt to finance corporate raids that are now unwinding.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "UBS", "Switzerland", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland faces sanctions over banking secrecy"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It's reality TV, but not as we know it. While we have been gripped by the rise and fall of Susan Boyle on Britain's Got Talent, viewers in Qatar are tuning in to Stars of Science, a new reality show beamed across the Arab world, where brainy youngsters compete to produce the best invention.Among the hopefuls is Hashem al-Sada, a 22-year-old Qatari who is not a star on YouTube, but has devised a tent fitted with solar panels for electricity generation. The show has deliberately eschewed the cruelty of booting out losing candidates: instead, they are invited to team up with successful competitors. Stars of Science encapsulates the huge faith Qatar puts in research and innovation; the contrast between it and our version of reality TV also says something about the arrogance of assuming western cultural values are automatically superior, though that's another story. It is not just the TV that is different in Doha. Flying from a downbeat London into the vast, pristine international air terminal is like arriving in another world. The commercial property market in the UK is on its knees, but in the West Bay business district gleaming towers are springing up in the blistering 50C heat. They bear witness to the determination to reduce Qatar's dependence on oil and gas by building a sort of Canary Wharf in the desert - only without the excessive bonuses and the ruinous risk-taking.While Gordon Brown's grip on government has been weakened by the crunch and the MPs' expenses scandal, the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa al-Thani, does not have to deal with the inconvenience of an electorate and has been able to press quietly ahead with plans to diversify the economy.Dr Tidu Maini is executive chairman of the Qatar Science and Technology Park, set up to commercialise research in energy, the environment, healthcare and IT; he recently established an experimental facility with Qatari company GreenGulf to study solar-to-electricity conversion methods. \"Instead of putting our money into a solar company in the UK or Germany, we are investing in our own country,\" he says. \"There is nobody doing what we are doing in a comprehensive and strategic way.\"With a dry smile, he adds: \"But it's easy for us because we are a small country and don't have a corrupt parliament.\"As Britain remains in recession, Qatar's per capita income has crossed the $70,000 (\u00a343,000) a head mark, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world. The Qatar Central Bank estimates growth of 7-9% for this year; the IMF predicts growth of 15-18%. Whatever: these are figures Alistair Darling would give his second home for. Dubai, which has little in the way of oil and gas, may have gone through a highly leveraged boom and bust (see below), but Qatar is in a very different position.It is currently running a small budget deficit - the first for nearly a decade - because oil prices have been low, although if they show a sustained improvement, that will be eradicated by the end of the fiscal year. But it has a good credit rating, and, most important, it has about 90 years' worth of oil reserves and more than 200 years of gas production. Not that there is any schadenfreude at Dubai's downfall; the feeling is that the whole region will have to support Dubai for the sake of collective credibility.Neither have the Qataris got too overwrought about the recent rise in the oil price to a six-month high above $67 a barrel, which has led some commentators to speculate about a resurgence of the petro-powers. Opec, the oil producers' cartel, wants to see the price stabilise at around $75 a barrel, which it reckons is the level needed to ensure investment in new supplies. Whether or not that pans out, the Qataris are interested in moving beyond petro-power and rebasing their economy so they are not hostage to a volatile oil price.Ahmad Anani, a partner in the Al-Tamimi law firm in Doha, says: \"I don't think Qatar perceives itself as a petro-power in the conventional sense ... There is no interest in flexing their muscles like Vladimir Putin, or in blowing money in Mayfair casinos. They are using the money to develop the country.\"Qatar has been cushioned from the global downturn by its position as the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG) - gas that has been turned into liquid form, making it easier to ship around the world. The UK is a big customer: the Queen and the Emir opened a new LNG terminal in Milford Haven last month. But despite the fact that LNG is a superb resource, the Qataris see no reason to rest on their laurels.Phillip Thorpe, chairman and chief executive of the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) Regulatory Authority, says: \"Whether oil is at a sustainable level is anyone's guess. The real point is that there has been a maturity around the way the government is approaching oil and gas revenue. It is a wonderful bounty today, but what about tomorrow? There are decades of gas reserves and you would think it's a good reason to go to the beach - but that is not future-proofing the economy.\"Thorpe is a key player in one form of future-proofing: the push to turn Doha into a regional financial centre - a Switzerland in the sand, with insurance and wealth management as major elements. The QFC's headquarters, where Thorpe has his offices, are in a building that is only a few years old - though that makes it practically an ancient monument by the standards of West Bay. It started in 2005; now it has 113 staff and licensed its 100th institution at the end of last year, a Qatari full-service Islamic bank. Next month it will launch Qatar Insurance Services, a system for processing and trading between insurers and reinsurers, with 17 firms as strategic partners.Another major initiative is the setting up of the Qatar Finance and Business Academy, to try to ensure there are enough well-trained local staff to run a 21st-century financial centre. Jon Morton, QFC's director for financial development and a former deputy principal of Henley Management College, says: \"We need to concentrate on middle-management talent - things like the English language, and a focus on the customer, not an internal focus.\"The structure and the skills of the population are a serious challenge. Of the 1.5 million residents, only around 250,000 or so are native Qataris; the rest are expats. It means very few people will be supporting what could be a very large and turbocharged economic engine. Mohamad Moabi, assistant general manager with Qatar National Bank, says: \"The challenge is to develop citizens for a post-oil economy. A knowledge-based economy is very important.\"To that end, education is free from kindergarten to university level. The seriousness of the commitment to learning is manifest in Education City, a 14 sq km development on the outskirts of Doha that houses not only schools but outposts of leading US universities such as Cornell, Georgetown and Carnegie Mellon. As one British expat sighs: \"If my kids were Qatari citizens, all my worries about education would be over.\"Dr Mohamed Fathy Saoud, president of the Qatar Foundation, which backs Education City, says: \"Human resources are more important than oil and gas resources. We are bringing one of the brightest facets of western civilisation to the region: the top universities. If you talk to people on the street they will be opposed to what the US and the UK did in Iraq, but this project is saying 'look beyond that to what these countries have contributed to education and research'.\"The sheer pace of economic development is throwing up social and cultural issues. One is the situation of women. The Emir's consort, Sheikha Mozah, plays a highly visible role in a region where royal wives until recently were rarely seen and certainly never heard.While it is a deeply conservative society, Qatari women can vote, drive and play a full part in the workplace: headscarves are a frequent sight, but the dress code for women is not as strict as in Saudi. Dr Sheikha Abdulla al-Misnad, president of Qatar University, says about half her staff and 70% of her students are women. \"We are very proud of how well our young women are doing, but there is an issue about our young men. Girls work hard and get better grades in high school, while young men drop out.\" Girls have been high achievers partly because of cultural expectations, she adds. \"Society expects women to work in a safe and professional environment, in a high status job, not to be in low-skill jobs and this is part of the reason why they are they are so determined to succeed academically. It is creating social problems because women are finding their marriage suitors are less qualified. \"The number of single women is increasing. It is difficult for lots of young professional women to find a husband. People don't have taboos about women in education because when education started in Qatar it started for both men and women from the outset, unlike many universities in the West which had been were exclusively for men for decades before women were granted access to higher education.\" None the less, the divide may be creating social tensions simply because the women are finding many eligible bachelors less qualified than they are. While the Qataris are keen to show visitors their sunlit uplands, one does have a sense of a reserved, multi-layered, complex society where difficult topics are not discussed, particularly with western journalists. Qatar has been keen to establish itself as the focal point of the new Arab media: its flagship broadcaster is Al-Jazeera, founded in 1996 and regulated by the UK's Ofcom in the hope of fending off accusations of bias, and the Doha Centre for Media Freedom was set up last year. Participants don't pull punches in the Doha Debates, a forum for free speech tackling the region's thorniest issues. In the most recent, the vote was in favour of letting Muslim women marry men of their choice. However, the media has a deferential air and the line is that the press should be free, but \"respectful\".Thorpe, who was pushed out of his job as head of the Dubai financial regulator after objecting to interference from above, says he is able to operate in Qatar without fear or favour: \"The message being sent out by the Emir and the government is that everyone has to abide by the rules.\" But it's important to remember who makes the rules. The Emir, who deposed his father in a bloodless coup in 1995, may be an enlightened monarch who has moved towards democracy, but there is no doubt who is in charge.The credit crunch has led to greater questioning of the western economic and social model. As Moabi says: \"Excessive risk-taking and innovation in financial products really hurt the financial system ... Who would have thought that GM would be filing for bankruptcy? We don't have MPs abusing expenses, or Madoffs. Our image of western people is not tarnished, but our image of the system is.\"Like the UK, Qatar is a small nation punching above its weight. Like the UK, it wants to become a knowledge-based economy. Like Tony Blair, it has a leader who believes in education, education, education. Perhaps - unlike the UK, which failed to husband its oil wealth - it will make wise use of its windfall.Dubai has been through a painful learning experience over the past six months. The boomtown of the Gulf, bling capital of the Middle East and the most globalised of the region's economies, it has born the brunt of the world's financial hurricane.Casualties range from the property speculators who lost millions in the 65% collapse of real estate prices to the sun-seeking expatriates who have quit their tax-free beachside lifestyles, down to the lowly-paid construction workers who have been \"relocated\" to other projects in the Gulf or back to their homes in Kerala or Guangdong.But perhaps the real long-term victim has been Dubai's self-esteem. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, Dubai's ruler, has had to pull back from the vision that saw the emirate as \"an Arab city of global significance, to rival Cordoba and Baghdad\".Instead, he has turned to Abu Dhabi, the rich but not much liked \"big brother\" of the UAE federation, for a handout. And \"Dubai Inc\" has had to trim its plans to be biggest, tallest and most expensive in everything from man-made islands to luxury hotels.The crisis hit Dubai so hard because it is not an archetypal oil-rich Gulf state. Its oil began to run out in the 1990s and now comprises around 3% of GDP. To their credit, the al-Maktoum dynasty saw this coming and set in train the process of economic diversification that sparked Dubai's emergence as a hub for tourism, air-travel, regional commerce and financial services. Dubai swapped oil dependence for real-estate dependence, with perhaps 40% of all economic activity related to property.When times were good and credit cheap, this strategy served the emirate well. Dubai Inc performed like a giant operating company, funding growth through borrowing and cash-generation. But the credit crunch hit the emirate at just the wrong phase of the cycle, when borrowings had hit $80bn.For a while, the reaction was denial, and warning signs were downplayed in the muzzled press. But when the ruling elite pulled their heads out of the sand, a series of crisis measures were enacted - an Abu Dhabi-backed $20bn bond issue, injections of liquidity into the financial system, and the establishment of a committee of the emirates' leading businessmen to oversee a recovery strategy.The first signs of recovery are perceptible. House prices rose by 5% last month, banks are lending again and the cranes are moving once more over the bigger construction projects. Green shoots are visible - just.But all eyes now are on the forecast emigration of expats as the fierce summer takes hold. Just how many decide to return to their \"Dubai dream\" will determine how quickly the emirate pulls of out of its nosedive.\u2022 Frank Kane is a columnist with The National of Abu Dhabi. These are his own views.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Economic recovery", "Construction industry", "Housing market", "Business", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "The gender gap", "Education", "Media", "Qatar"], "title": "Beyond oil: a Switzerland in the sands"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "As soon as Alistair Darling revealed the 50% income tax rate for those earning over \u00a3150,000 on Wednesday, he was accused of saving the wrong economy. Rather than filling the Treasury's empty coffers, the move would benefit fiscally lenient countries such as Switzerland, said some commentators. One thinktank estimated that around 25,000 high-end taxpayers would shift tax regimes, with the low-tax cantons of Switzerland the biggest beneficiaries.At least one relocation company has already seen a spike in inquiries about living the Alpine life since the budget. \"In the 24 hours afterwards, we saw a 41% increase in people in the UK searching for Switzerland, compared to Monday,\" said Anne Wright of estate agents Prime Location International.It's one thing doing an idle internet search, another entirely for Britain's highest earners to actually swap the bright lights of the City for the sedate charms of Z\u00fcrich or Zermatt. After all, the exodus predicted last time the bank balances of the super-rich were supposedly under threat - when the government moved to change the laws around \"non-doms\" - never materialised. And, to paraphrase Orson Welles in The Third Man, what does Switzerland really have to offer the masters of the universe beyond longevous brotherly love and cuckoo clocks?The answer, as Lewis Hamilton, Tina Turner, David Bowie and all of the other megarich celebrities who relocated there will no doubt be too coy to admit, is: the lowest taxes in Europe.\"How much tax you pay in Switzerland depends on whether you are single, married or have children, how much you earn and where you live,\" said Gema Ricart of the Swiss government's finance department. A study by BAK Basle Economic says high earners would pay the lowest taxes in Switzerland by moving to Zug, in the middle of the country. There, a single, highly qualified person earning \u20ac100,000 a year would pay just 22%, compared with 38.2% in the UK.For the really rich, the Swiss have cooked up a rather nice deal they call the taxe \u00e0 forfait. This lump sum tax politely ignores the money you actually make and simply assesses your annual consumption, typically by multiplying the deemed or actual rental income on your home in Switzerland. This figure is multiplied by five and then taxed at normal Swiss tax rates. So even if you're lording it up in a luxury chalet in Zug costing \u00a3100,000 a year, you will pay no more than \u00a362,500 in taxes. If you're Bernie Ecclestone with an estimated \u00a32.4bn fortune, the attractions are obvious.But so are the drawbacks. Jonathan Ivinson, head of European tax at Hogan & Hartson, spends most of his time in Geneva. \"It is a very different pace of life to London,\" he said. \"If you want to have a choice of more than three things to do in an evening, it's probably not for you. One major British company looked at relocating to Switzerland, but when the directors went to have a look there, they realised there was absolutely no way. It just seemed too tedious for them. But with this 50% tax, you can imagine more people giving it serious consideration, especially those with software or IT businesses, which aren't tied to a location.\"Lewis Tonkinson, director of Pinnacle Marketing Communications, said: \"I have considered it. My company brings in \u00a32m each year from abroad in fees. What is the point in working 12-hour days to give it to the government?\"But many Swiss are fed up of their country being known primarily as a tax haven. \"It is a pity we are known first as a low-tax country,\" said Patrick Djizmedjian from OSEC, which promotes the country abroad as a potential business location. \"We don't just want to be known for that. Switzerland is an attractive location for many other reasons: we have very good infrastructure, a good transport system where workers hardly ever strike, and we are based in the heart of Europe.\"Switzerland might also not be a low tax mecca for ever. \"In Z\u00fcrich recently, people voted to abolish the lump sum tax in a referendum,\" said Ricart. \"So Tina Turner might be moving.\"", "tags": ["Budget", "UK news", "Income tax", "Money", "Switzerland", "World news", "Alistair Darling", "Politics", "Tax and spending", "Economics", "Business", "Budget 2009", "Europe"], "title": "Income tax rise: Alpine life tempts, but rich may end on slippery slope"},{"date": "2009-06-18T23:05:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Mark Cavendish yesterday won his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland, beating the former world champion Oscar Freire in Bad Zurzach with his customary quick acceleration. It was the 24-year-old's 13th win of the season, and he is well on track to beat last year's 17 victories, his best as a professional.The Briton paid tribute to his Columbia-Highroad team-mates, who gave him the perfect lead-out to launch his sprint. \"It was easy to win here today,\" he said. \"[My team-mate] George Hincapie brought me into a good position, and I moved around [Thor] Hushovd. I was quite tired [at the start of the stage], it was a difficult, technical course, and the finale was very physical.\"With the start of the Tour de France just over a fortnight away, Cavendish's form in Switzerland augurs well for his chances of adding to his four stage wins last year. And his chances of also targeting the green jersey, for most consistent sprinter, were boosted last night with the Tour de France organisers, ASO, confirming that Tom Boonen, a former green jersey winner, would be banned from this year's race after his positive test for cocaine in April.Lance Armstrong's Tour de France challenge also remains on track, with his team, Astana, announcing yesterday that its financial problems have been resolved until the end of the season. Having missed a payment deadline to the International Cycling Union on Tuesday evening the Kazakh-backed team faced suspension, but it seems that the squad has been bailed out by the Kazakh government.\"Thanks to the guarantees made by the Kazakh government we can continue,\" said the team's manager, Johan Bruyneel. \"The government showed that \u2013 despite the economic crisis \u2013 they really want to invest in cycling [and] they succeeded in finding funds.\" It had been reported that the team faced a shortfall of $9m (\u00a35.5m).", "tags": ["Tour de France 2009", "Mark Cavendish", "Lance Armstrong", "Tour de France", "Cycling"], "title": "Mark Cavendish wins his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-04-30T18:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The number of people confirmed to have swine flu has risen above 250, the World Health Organisation said today, adding that it would stop using the term \"swine flu\" to avoid confusion over the danger posed by pigs. Instead the virus will be called Influenza A H1N1.The announcement came after the WHO raised its global epidemic threat level to phase five \u2013 the second highest level \u2013 in recognition of the growing number of countries affected by the virus.Health experts believe it is a only a matter of time before the WHO raises the alert to phase six, confirming a pandemic is in progress.More than a dozen countries have reported cases of the H1N1 strain, many of them in Europe.The Irish Republic confirmed its first probable case today, an adult male who has recently returned from Mexico. The chief medical officer, Dr Tony Holohan, said the man had tested positive for type A flu, and was now being tested for the H1N1 strain. Experts said the case was \"likely to be positive\" when the test results returned from the UK.The Netherlands and Switzerland confirmed their first cases \u2011 a three-year-old child and a 19-year-old student respectively \u2011 both of whom had travelled to Mexico.The Swiss student was mistakenly released from a hospital after test results were misinterpreted and then hastily readmitted. Switzerland has a further 29 \"suspicious\" cases. In Britain three new cases were confirmed, bringing the total to eight, while Spain, the worst affected European country so far, raised its confirmed cases to 13, with another 84 under observation.In France, medical authorities were conducting tests on 41 people for possible swine flu and said five of those were considered \"probable\" cases.Fran\u00e7oise Weber, head of the state health monitoring agency InVS, said three of the people considered probable cases had been in Mexico. France has no confirmed cases yet of the disease.France today proposed a suspension on all EU flights to Mexico at a meeting of European health ministers in Luxembourg but representatives from other countries including Austria, Spain, Denmark and Germany cast doubt on the effectiveness of such a move.Arriving at the talks, Spain's health minister, Trinidad Jim\u00e9nez, said: \"We have to wait and see what is the evolution of the disease before taking such a drastic measure.\" But the Spanish airline Air Europa said it was cutting most of its flights to Mexico due to plunging demand since the outbreak began.While some country co-ordination on travel curbs could be possible, the European commission - the EU's executive arm - does not have the power to impose an EU-wide ban. EU countries themselves may impose national travel restrictions. The ministers were also expected to discuss development of vaccines and the idea of common vaccine stockpiles.The US vice-president, Joe Biden, caused controversy earlier today when he said he would advise his own family not to travel on commercial airlines, the subway or \"confined spaces\". But as his stark comments prompted accusations of scaremongering, a spokeswoman for the gaffe-prone Biden later clarified that he was just telling sick people to avoid such places.The virus has so far claimed a confirmed seven lives in Mexico, although the death toll is believed to be significantly higher \u2013 many suspected deaths are yet to be confirmed as H1N1. There has also been one confirmed death in the United States.", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Health", "Switzerland", "Netherlands", "World news", "US news", "Mexico", "Ireland", "Society", "World Health Organisation", "Flu", "Life and style", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Global swine flu cases top 250"},{"date": "2009-06-22T20:04:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland faces economic sanctions if it delays opening up its notoriously secretive banks to international scrutiny. The threat will be made today by world finance ministers in a key meeting to discuss how to broaden the crackdown on tax havens that are draining exchequers of tens of billions of dollars each year.The meeting of finance ministers in Berlin will report on progress towards complying with new international demands on tax transparency following the G20 summit in London in April. Failure to comply will be greeted with \"hostility\" warned one official. Unlike at London, Switzerland has been invited to attend.The Swiss are rushing to sign bilateral information-sharing agreements with 12 countries by the end of the year. So far it has agreed six but it needs 12 treaties to remove itself from a \"grey list\" of countries deemed not to have met international tax transparency standards.Switzerland reached a double tax agreement with the United States last week. However, its leading bank, UBS, still faces a potentially damaging court trial next month for its part in a tax evasion scandal allegedly involving up to 52,000 US account holders. It has also suffered a huge outflow of money from its private banks in recent months as the wealthy grow nervous that the end of Swiss bank secrecy is coming closer.Jeffrey Owens, director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said last week that summit participants would stipulate what signs of progress they expect to see from countries on the list, and also suggested that the patience of world powers with tax havens such as Liechtenstein, the Caymans and Switzerland was running out. \"Political tolerance for non-compliance is headed rapidly towards zero,\" he said. Owens added, however, that there had been a great deal of progress on the tax haven issue over the last six months.But campaigners argue that the weight of evidence required by tax \u00adinvestigators to force tax haven officials to hand over details of accounts on suspected tax evaders is so onerous that the current treaties are ineffective. There is pressure on the OECD, the thinktank of leading nations which sets international tax standards, to force countries to sign more treaties and to introduce automatic information-sharing agreements.Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, will use the Berlin meeting today to call for the introduction of a radical new measure to force global firms to reveal exactly the profits they make and the tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in. Known as country-by-country reporting, the proposal is likely to gain strong support from the French and Germans as a way of ensuring countries economies can weather the financial crisis that has destroyed tax revenues.The role of tax incentives in propagating the bank crisis is also likely to come under the microscope following a recent IMF paper arguing that \"tax distortions are likely to have encouraged excessive leveraging and other financial market problems evident in the crisis\". Private equity firms, in particular, have used tax incentives on debt to finance corporate raids that are now unwinding.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "UBS", "Switzerland", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland faces sanctions over banking secrecy"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It's reality TV, but not as we know it. While we have been gripped by the rise and fall of Susan Boyle on Britain's Got Talent, viewers in Qatar are tuning in to Stars of Science, a new reality show beamed across the Arab world, where brainy youngsters compete to produce the best invention.Among the hopefuls is Hashem al-Sada, a 22-year-old Qatari who is not a star on YouTube, but has devised a tent fitted with solar panels for electricity generation. The show has deliberately eschewed the cruelty of booting out losing candidates: instead, they are invited to team up with successful competitors. Stars of Science encapsulates the huge faith Qatar puts in research and innovation; the contrast between it and our version of reality TV also says something about the arrogance of assuming western cultural values are automatically superior, though that's another story. It is not just the TV that is different in Doha. Flying from a downbeat London into the vast, pristine international air terminal is like arriving in another world. The commercial property market in the UK is on its knees, but in the West Bay business district gleaming towers are springing up in the blistering 50C heat. They bear witness to the determination to reduce Qatar's dependence on oil and gas by building a sort of Canary Wharf in the desert - only without the excessive bonuses and the ruinous risk-taking.While Gordon Brown's grip on government has been weakened by the crunch and the MPs' expenses scandal, the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa al-Thani, does not have to deal with the inconvenience of an electorate and has been able to press quietly ahead with plans to diversify the economy.Dr Tidu Maini is executive chairman of the Qatar Science and Technology Park, set up to commercialise research in energy, the environment, healthcare and IT; he recently established an experimental facility with Qatari company GreenGulf to study solar-to-electricity conversion methods. \"Instead of putting our money into a solar company in the UK or Germany, we are investing in our own country,\" he says. \"There is nobody doing what we are doing in a comprehensive and strategic way.\"With a dry smile, he adds: \"But it's easy for us because we are a small country and don't have a corrupt parliament.\"As Britain remains in recession, Qatar's per capita income has crossed the $70,000 (\u00a343,000) a head mark, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world. The Qatar Central Bank estimates growth of 7-9% for this year; the IMF predicts growth of 15-18%. Whatever: these are figures Alistair Darling would give his second home for. Dubai, which has little in the way of oil and gas, may have gone through a highly leveraged boom and bust (see below), but Qatar is in a very different position.It is currently running a small budget deficit - the first for nearly a decade - because oil prices have been low, although if they show a sustained improvement, that will be eradicated by the end of the fiscal year. But it has a good credit rating, and, most important, it has about 90 years' worth of oil reserves and more than 200 years of gas production. Not that there is any schadenfreude at Dubai's downfall; the feeling is that the whole region will have to support Dubai for the sake of collective credibility.Neither have the Qataris got too overwrought about the recent rise in the oil price to a six-month high above $67 a barrel, which has led some commentators to speculate about a resurgence of the petro-powers. Opec, the oil producers' cartel, wants to see the price stabilise at around $75 a barrel, which it reckons is the level needed to ensure investment in new supplies. Whether or not that pans out, the Qataris are interested in moving beyond petro-power and rebasing their economy so they are not hostage to a volatile oil price.Ahmad Anani, a partner in the Al-Tamimi law firm in Doha, says: \"I don't think Qatar perceives itself as a petro-power in the conventional sense ... There is no interest in flexing their muscles like Vladimir Putin, or in blowing money in Mayfair casinos. They are using the money to develop the country.\"Qatar has been cushioned from the global downturn by its position as the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG) - gas that has been turned into liquid form, making it easier to ship around the world. The UK is a big customer: the Queen and the Emir opened a new LNG terminal in Milford Haven last month. But despite the fact that LNG is a superb resource, the Qataris see no reason to rest on their laurels.Phillip Thorpe, chairman and chief executive of the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) Regulatory Authority, says: \"Whether oil is at a sustainable level is anyone's guess. The real point is that there has been a maturity around the way the government is approaching oil and gas revenue. It is a wonderful bounty today, but what about tomorrow? There are decades of gas reserves and you would think it's a good reason to go to the beach - but that is not future-proofing the economy.\"Thorpe is a key player in one form of future-proofing: the push to turn Doha into a regional financial centre - a Switzerland in the sand, with insurance and wealth management as major elements. The QFC's headquarters, where Thorpe has his offices, are in a building that is only a few years old - though that makes it practically an ancient monument by the standards of West Bay. It started in 2005; now it has 113 staff and licensed its 100th institution at the end of last year, a Qatari full-service Islamic bank. Next month it will launch Qatar Insurance Services, a system for processing and trading between insurers and reinsurers, with 17 firms as strategic partners.Another major initiative is the setting up of the Qatar Finance and Business Academy, to try to ensure there are enough well-trained local staff to run a 21st-century financial centre. Jon Morton, QFC's director for financial development and a former deputy principal of Henley Management College, says: \"We need to concentrate on middle-management talent - things like the English language, and a focus on the customer, not an internal focus.\"The structure and the skills of the population are a serious challenge. Of the 1.5 million residents, only around 250,000 or so are native Qataris; the rest are expats. It means very few people will be supporting what could be a very large and turbocharged economic engine. Mohamad Moabi, assistant general manager with Qatar National Bank, says: \"The challenge is to develop citizens for a post-oil economy. A knowledge-based economy is very important.\"To that end, education is free from kindergarten to university level. The seriousness of the commitment to learning is manifest in Education City, a 14 sq km development on the outskirts of Doha that houses not only schools but outposts of leading US universities such as Cornell, Georgetown and Carnegie Mellon. As one British expat sighs: \"If my kids were Qatari citizens, all my worries about education would be over.\"Dr Mohamed Fathy Saoud, president of the Qatar Foundation, which backs Education City, says: \"Human resources are more important than oil and gas resources. We are bringing one of the brightest facets of western civilisation to the region: the top universities. If you talk to people on the street they will be opposed to what the US and the UK did in Iraq, but this project is saying 'look beyond that to what these countries have contributed to education and research'.\"The sheer pace of economic development is throwing up social and cultural issues. One is the situation of women. The Emir's consort, Sheikha Mozah, plays a highly visible role in a region where royal wives until recently were rarely seen and certainly never heard.While it is a deeply conservative society, Qatari women can vote, drive and play a full part in the workplace: headscarves are a frequent sight, but the dress code for women is not as strict as in Saudi. Dr Sheikha Abdulla al-Misnad, president of Qatar University, says about half her staff and 70% of her students are women. \"We are very proud of how well our young women are doing, but there is an issue about our young men. Girls work hard and get better grades in high school, while young men drop out.\" Girls have been high achievers partly because of cultural expectations, she adds. \"Society expects women to work in a safe and professional environment, in a high status job, not to be in low-skill jobs and this is part of the reason why they are they are so determined to succeed academically. It is creating social problems because women are finding their marriage suitors are less qualified. \"The number of single women is increasing. It is difficult for lots of young professional women to find a husband. People don't have taboos about women in education because when education started in Qatar it started for both men and women from the outset, unlike many universities in the West which had been were exclusively for men for decades before women were granted access to higher education.\" None the less, the divide may be creating social tensions simply because the women are finding many eligible bachelors less qualified than they are. While the Qataris are keen to show visitors their sunlit uplands, one does have a sense of a reserved, multi-layered, complex society where difficult topics are not discussed, particularly with western journalists. Qatar has been keen to establish itself as the focal point of the new Arab media: its flagship broadcaster is Al-Jazeera, founded in 1996 and regulated by the UK's Ofcom in the hope of fending off accusations of bias, and the Doha Centre for Media Freedom was set up last year. Participants don't pull punches in the Doha Debates, a forum for free speech tackling the region's thorniest issues. In the most recent, the vote was in favour of letting Muslim women marry men of their choice. However, the media has a deferential air and the line is that the press should be free, but \"respectful\".Thorpe, who was pushed out of his job as head of the Dubai financial regulator after objecting to interference from above, says he is able to operate in Qatar without fear or favour: \"The message being sent out by the Emir and the government is that everyone has to abide by the rules.\" But it's important to remember who makes the rules. The Emir, who deposed his father in a bloodless coup in 1995, may be an enlightened monarch who has moved towards democracy, but there is no doubt who is in charge.The credit crunch has led to greater questioning of the western economic and social model. As Moabi says: \"Excessive risk-taking and innovation in financial products really hurt the financial system ... Who would have thought that GM would be filing for bankruptcy? We don't have MPs abusing expenses, or Madoffs. Our image of western people is not tarnished, but our image of the system is.\"Like the UK, Qatar is a small nation punching above its weight. Like the UK, it wants to become a knowledge-based economy. Like Tony Blair, it has a leader who believes in education, education, education. Perhaps - unlike the UK, which failed to husband its oil wealth - it will make wise use of its windfall.Dubai has been through a painful learning experience over the past six months. The boomtown of the Gulf, bling capital of the Middle East and the most globalised of the region's economies, it has born the brunt of the world's financial hurricane.Casualties range from the property speculators who lost millions in the 65% collapse of real estate prices to the sun-seeking expatriates who have quit their tax-free beachside lifestyles, down to the lowly-paid construction workers who have been \"relocated\" to other projects in the Gulf or back to their homes in Kerala or Guangdong.But perhaps the real long-term victim has been Dubai's self-esteem. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, Dubai's ruler, has had to pull back from the vision that saw the emirate as \"an Arab city of global significance, to rival Cordoba and Baghdad\".Instead, he has turned to Abu Dhabi, the rich but not much liked \"big brother\" of the UAE federation, for a handout. And \"Dubai Inc\" has had to trim its plans to be biggest, tallest and most expensive in everything from man-made islands to luxury hotels.The crisis hit Dubai so hard because it is not an archetypal oil-rich Gulf state. Its oil began to run out in the 1990s and now comprises around 3% of GDP. To their credit, the al-Maktoum dynasty saw this coming and set in train the process of economic diversification that sparked Dubai's emergence as a hub for tourism, air-travel, regional commerce and financial services. Dubai swapped oil dependence for real-estate dependence, with perhaps 40% of all economic activity related to property.When times were good and credit cheap, this strategy served the emirate well. Dubai Inc performed like a giant operating company, funding growth through borrowing and cash-generation. But the credit crunch hit the emirate at just the wrong phase of the cycle, when borrowings had hit $80bn.For a while, the reaction was denial, and warning signs were downplayed in the muzzled press. But when the ruling elite pulled their heads out of the sand, a series of crisis measures were enacted - an Abu Dhabi-backed $20bn bond issue, injections of liquidity into the financial system, and the establishment of a committee of the emirates' leading businessmen to oversee a recovery strategy.The first signs of recovery are perceptible. House prices rose by 5% last month, banks are lending again and the cranes are moving once more over the bigger construction projects. Green shoots are visible - just.But all eyes now are on the forecast emigration of expats as the fierce summer takes hold. Just how many decide to return to their \"Dubai dream\" will determine how quickly the emirate pulls of out of its nosedive.\u2022 Frank Kane is a columnist with The National of Abu Dhabi. These are his own views.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Economic recovery", "Construction industry", "Housing market", "Business", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "The gender gap", "Education", "Media", "Qatar"], "title": "Beyond oil: a Switzerland in the sands"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "As soon as Alistair Darling revealed the 50% income tax rate for those earning over \u00a3150,000 on Wednesday, he was accused of saving the wrong economy. Rather than filling the Treasury's empty coffers, the move would benefit fiscally lenient countries such as Switzerland, said some commentators. One thinktank estimated that around 25,000 high-end taxpayers would shift tax regimes, with the low-tax cantons of Switzerland the biggest beneficiaries.At least one relocation company has already seen a spike in inquiries about living the Alpine life since the budget. \"In the 24 hours afterwards, we saw a 41% increase in people in the UK searching for Switzerland, compared to Monday,\" said Anne Wright of estate agents Prime Location International.It's one thing doing an idle internet search, another entirely for Britain's highest earners to actually swap the bright lights of the City for the sedate charms of Z\u00fcrich or Zermatt. After all, the exodus predicted last time the bank balances of the super-rich were supposedly under threat - when the government moved to change the laws around \"non-doms\" - never materialised. And, to paraphrase Orson Welles in The Third Man, what does Switzerland really have to offer the masters of the universe beyond longevous brotherly love and cuckoo clocks?The answer, as Lewis Hamilton, Tina Turner, David Bowie and all of the other megarich celebrities who relocated there will no doubt be too coy to admit, is: the lowest taxes in Europe.\"How much tax you pay in Switzerland depends on whether you are single, married or have children, how much you earn and where you live,\" said Gema Ricart of the Swiss government's finance department. A study by BAK Basle Economic says high earners would pay the lowest taxes in Switzerland by moving to Zug, in the middle of the country. There, a single, highly qualified person earning \u20ac100,000 a year would pay just 22%, compared with 38.2% in the UK.For the really rich, the Swiss have cooked up a rather nice deal they call the taxe \u00e0 forfait. This lump sum tax politely ignores the money you actually make and simply assesses your annual consumption, typically by multiplying the deemed or actual rental income on your home in Switzerland. This figure is multiplied by five and then taxed at normal Swiss tax rates. So even if you're lording it up in a luxury chalet in Zug costing \u00a3100,000 a year, you will pay no more than \u00a362,500 in taxes. If you're Bernie Ecclestone with an estimated \u00a32.4bn fortune, the attractions are obvious.But so are the drawbacks. Jonathan Ivinson, head of European tax at Hogan & Hartson, spends most of his time in Geneva. \"It is a very different pace of life to London,\" he said. \"If you want to have a choice of more than three things to do in an evening, it's probably not for you. One major British company looked at relocating to Switzerland, but when the directors went to have a look there, they realised there was absolutely no way. It just seemed too tedious for them. But with this 50% tax, you can imagine more people giving it serious consideration, especially those with software or IT businesses, which aren't tied to a location.\"Lewis Tonkinson, director of Pinnacle Marketing Communications, said: \"I have considered it. My company brings in \u00a32m each year from abroad in fees. What is the point in working 12-hour days to give it to the government?\"But many Swiss are fed up of their country being known primarily as a tax haven. \"It is a pity we are known first as a low-tax country,\" said Patrick Djizmedjian from OSEC, which promotes the country abroad as a potential business location. \"We don't just want to be known for that. Switzerland is an attractive location for many other reasons: we have very good infrastructure, a good transport system where workers hardly ever strike, and we are based in the heart of Europe.\"Switzerland might also not be a low tax mecca for ever. \"In Z\u00fcrich recently, people voted to abolish the lump sum tax in a referendum,\" said Ricart. \"So Tina Turner might be moving.\"", "tags": ["Budget", "UK news", "Income tax", "Money", "Switzerland", "World news", "Alistair Darling", "Politics", "Tax and spending", "Economics", "Business", "Budget 2009", "Europe"], "title": "Income tax rise: Alpine life tempts, but rich may end on slippery slope"},{"date": "2009-06-18T23:05:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Mark Cavendish yesterday won his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland, beating the former world champion Oscar Freire in Bad Zurzach with his customary quick acceleration. It was the 24-year-old's 13th win of the season, and he is well on track to beat last year's 17 victories, his best as a professional.The Briton paid tribute to his Columbia-Highroad team-mates, who gave him the perfect lead-out to launch his sprint. \"It was easy to win here today,\" he said. \"[My team-mate] George Hincapie brought me into a good position, and I moved around [Thor] Hushovd. I was quite tired [at the start of the stage], it was a difficult, technical course, and the finale was very physical.\"With the start of the Tour de France just over a fortnight away, Cavendish's form in Switzerland augurs well for his chances of adding to his four stage wins last year. And his chances of also targeting the green jersey, for most consistent sprinter, were boosted last night with the Tour de France organisers, ASO, confirming that Tom Boonen, a former green jersey winner, would be banned from this year's race after his positive test for cocaine in April.Lance Armstrong's Tour de France challenge also remains on track, with his team, Astana, announcing yesterday that its financial problems have been resolved until the end of the season. Having missed a payment deadline to the International Cycling Union on Tuesday evening the Kazakh-backed team faced suspension, but it seems that the squad has been bailed out by the Kazakh government.\"Thanks to the guarantees made by the Kazakh government we can continue,\" said the team's manager, Johan Bruyneel. \"The government showed that \u2013 despite the economic crisis \u2013 they really want to invest in cycling [and] they succeeded in finding funds.\" It had been reported that the team faced a shortfall of $9m (\u00a35.5m).", "tags": ["Tour de France 2009", "Mark Cavendish", "Lance Armstrong", "Tour de France", "Cycling"], "title": "Mark Cavendish wins his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-04-30T18:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The number of people confirmed to have swine flu has risen above 250, the World Health Organisation said today, adding that it would stop using the term \"swine flu\" to avoid confusion over the danger posed by pigs. Instead the virus will be called Influenza A H1N1.The announcement came after the WHO raised its global epidemic threat level to phase five \u2013 the second highest level \u2013 in recognition of the growing number of countries affected by the virus.Health experts believe it is a only a matter of time before the WHO raises the alert to phase six, confirming a pandemic is in progress.More than a dozen countries have reported cases of the H1N1 strain, many of them in Europe.The Irish Republic confirmed its first probable case today, an adult male who has recently returned from Mexico. The chief medical officer, Dr Tony Holohan, said the man had tested positive for type A flu, and was now being tested for the H1N1 strain. Experts said the case was \"likely to be positive\" when the test results returned from the UK.The Netherlands and Switzerland confirmed their first cases \u2011 a three-year-old child and a 19-year-old student respectively \u2011 both of whom had travelled to Mexico.The Swiss student was mistakenly released from a hospital after test results were misinterpreted and then hastily readmitted. Switzerland has a further 29 \"suspicious\" cases. In Britain three new cases were confirmed, bringing the total to eight, while Spain, the worst affected European country so far, raised its confirmed cases to 13, with another 84 under observation.In France, medical authorities were conducting tests on 41 people for possible swine flu and said five of those were considered \"probable\" cases.Fran\u00e7oise Weber, head of the state health monitoring agency InVS, said three of the people considered probable cases had been in Mexico. France has no confirmed cases yet of the disease.France today proposed a suspension on all EU flights to Mexico at a meeting of European health ministers in Luxembourg but representatives from other countries including Austria, Spain, Denmark and Germany cast doubt on the effectiveness of such a move.Arriving at the talks, Spain's health minister, Trinidad Jim\u00e9nez, said: \"We have to wait and see what is the evolution of the disease before taking such a drastic measure.\" But the Spanish airline Air Europa said it was cutting most of its flights to Mexico due to plunging demand since the outbreak began.While some country co-ordination on travel curbs could be possible, the European commission - the EU's executive arm - does not have the power to impose an EU-wide ban. EU countries themselves may impose national travel restrictions. The ministers were also expected to discuss development of vaccines and the idea of common vaccine stockpiles.The US vice-president, Joe Biden, caused controversy earlier today when he said he would advise his own family not to travel on commercial airlines, the subway or \"confined spaces\". But as his stark comments prompted accusations of scaremongering, a spokeswoman for the gaffe-prone Biden later clarified that he was just telling sick people to avoid such places.The virus has so far claimed a confirmed seven lives in Mexico, although the death toll is believed to be significantly higher \u2013 many suspected deaths are yet to be confirmed as H1N1. There has also been one confirmed death in the United States.", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Health", "Switzerland", "Netherlands", "World news", "US news", "Mexico", "Ireland", "Society", "World Health Organisation", "Flu", "Life and style", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Global swine flu cases top 250"},{"date": "2009-04-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "\u2022 There has been a hunt for the foreign bolthole of the former head of the Royal Bank of Scotland, Sir Fred Goodwin, as he seeks a quiet place to stir his pension pot. Reporters at the Guardian have been begging us not to reveal his true whereabouts as they try to persuade a sceptical newsdesk to let them follow up their own hot tips that the hideaway is in St Lucia/Buenos Aires/Tahiti and so on. Now we hear from an unimpeachable source who offers us the \"100%, red-hot, bottom dollar\" info that Sir Fred has been given refuge by Sir Jackie Stewart, for many years an RBS ambassador, at his gaff in Switzerland. Switzerland. Suddenly, the hunt seems less urgent.\u2022 But what of that \"lost weekend\", when Sir Fred's compensation package was agreed? David Lowry, a researcher working in both the UK and European parliaments, put in a Freedom of Information request to try to find out just what did take place. He received this response from the Information Rights Unit on behalf of the Treasury. \"Dear Dr Lowry, Thank you for your inquiry ... You asked for: all minutes, memoranda and related emails of meetings held between Treasury ministers and officials with the Royal Bank of Scotland officials between 6-12 October 2008. I confirm that the Treasury holds information falling within the description of your request. However, we estimate that the cost of complying with your request would exceed the appropriate cost limit. The appropriate limit has been specified in regulations, and for central government is set at \u00a3600. This estimates the cost of one person spending three and a half working days in determining whether the department holds the information and locating, retrieving and extracting the information. Under section 12 of the Freedom of Information Act, the department is not obliged to comply with your request and we will not be processing your request further.\" Is there anybody out there - in the Alps maybe - who could help with the cost? \u2022 Where was David Cameron on the night that Gordon Brown and Barack Obama and 18 other national leaders sat down to save the world last week? At Tramp, the London \"nightclub\". He was there to celebrate the publication of the new racing novel Citizen, by Charlie Brooks, the partner of the editor of the Sun, Rebekah Wade. Oh, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave. Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, could you not have found somewhere - anywhere - more statesmanlike, not to mention cooler, than Tramp?\u2022 The campaign to halt the extradition to the US of computer hacker, Gary McKinnon (left) continues apace. The former Beirut hostage Terry Waite is just one of many to offer his support. Now singer-songwriter Graham Nash has agreed to let the campaign change the lyrics of his 1968 song Chicago to send a musical message to President Obama, urging him to intervene and prevent what is now widely accepted as a disproportionate response to something that happened years ago. David Gilmour, formerly of Pink Floyd, and other leading musicians are also helping Gary's mother, Janis Sharp, to produce a new version of the song. A judicial review of home secretary Jacqui Smith's refusal to consider medical evidence of McKinnon's Asperger's syndrome is listed for 9 June. Still time for a musically hip president from Chicago to hear a CD and take appropriate action.\u2022 We know all about North Korea's long-range rocket but, much more important, how is the top official in its London embassy transported? It may be one of the poorest countries in Asia, but the ambassador to London of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) has a top of the range Mercedes, with the bashful registration number of PRK1D to take him from the Ealing, west London, embassy. But then he does have to keep up with his flashy southern neighbour - the ambassador of South Korea, or the Republic of Korea, who is whizzed around London in an equally glitzy limousine, ROK1. Instead of an expensive arms race, how about one between the two embassy motors twice round the North Circular?", "tags": ["Politics"], "title": "Duncan Campbell's diary: Hunt for the foreign bolthole of the former head of the Royal Bank of Scotland, Sir Fred Goodwin"},{"date": "2009-06-22T20:04:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland faces economic sanctions if it delays opening up its notoriously secretive banks to international scrutiny. The threat will be made today by world finance ministers in a key meeting to discuss how to broaden the crackdown on tax havens that are draining exchequers of tens of billions of dollars each year.The meeting of finance ministers in Berlin will report on progress towards complying with new international demands on tax transparency following the G20 summit in London in April. Failure to comply will be greeted with \"hostility\" warned one official. Unlike at London, Switzerland has been invited to attend.The Swiss are rushing to sign bilateral information-sharing agreements with 12 countries by the end of the year. So far it has agreed six but it needs 12 treaties to remove itself from a \"grey list\" of countries deemed not to have met international tax transparency standards.Switzerland reached a double tax agreement with the United States last week. However, its leading bank, UBS, still faces a potentially damaging court trial next month for its part in a tax evasion scandal allegedly involving up to 52,000 US account holders. It has also suffered a huge outflow of money from its private banks in recent months as the wealthy grow nervous that the end of Swiss bank secrecy is coming closer.Jeffrey Owens, director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said last week that summit participants would stipulate what signs of progress they expect to see from countries on the list, and also suggested that the patience of world powers with tax havens such as Liechtenstein, the Caymans and Switzerland was running out. \"Political tolerance for non-compliance is headed rapidly towards zero,\" he said. Owens added, however, that there had been a great deal of progress on the tax haven issue over the last six months.But campaigners argue that the weight of evidence required by tax \u00adinvestigators to force tax haven officials to hand over details of accounts on suspected tax evaders is so onerous that the current treaties are ineffective. There is pressure on the OECD, the thinktank of leading nations which sets international tax standards, to force countries to sign more treaties and to introduce automatic information-sharing agreements.Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, will use the Berlin meeting today to call for the introduction of a radical new measure to force global firms to reveal exactly the profits they make and the tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in. Known as country-by-country reporting, the proposal is likely to gain strong support from the French and Germans as a way of ensuring countries economies can weather the financial crisis that has destroyed tax revenues.The role of tax incentives in propagating the bank crisis is also likely to come under the microscope following a recent IMF paper arguing that \"tax distortions are likely to have encouraged excessive leveraging and other financial market problems evident in the crisis\". Private equity firms, in particular, have used tax incentives on debt to finance corporate raids that are now unwinding.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "UBS", "Switzerland", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland faces sanctions over banking secrecy"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It's reality TV, but not as we know it. While we have been gripped by the rise and fall of Susan Boyle on Britain's Got Talent, viewers in Qatar are tuning in to Stars of Science, a new reality show beamed across the Arab world, where brainy youngsters compete to produce the best invention.Among the hopefuls is Hashem al-Sada, a 22-year-old Qatari who is not a star on YouTube, but has devised a tent fitted with solar panels for electricity generation. The show has deliberately eschewed the cruelty of booting out losing candidates: instead, they are invited to team up with successful competitors. Stars of Science encapsulates the huge faith Qatar puts in research and innovation; the contrast between it and our version of reality TV also says something about the arrogance of assuming western cultural values are automatically superior, though that's another story. It is not just the TV that is different in Doha. Flying from a downbeat London into the vast, pristine international air terminal is like arriving in another world. The commercial property market in the UK is on its knees, but in the West Bay business district gleaming towers are springing up in the blistering 50C heat. They bear witness to the determination to reduce Qatar's dependence on oil and gas by building a sort of Canary Wharf in the desert - only without the excessive bonuses and the ruinous risk-taking.While Gordon Brown's grip on government has been weakened by the crunch and the MPs' expenses scandal, the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa al-Thani, does not have to deal with the inconvenience of an electorate and has been able to press quietly ahead with plans to diversify the economy.Dr Tidu Maini is executive chairman of the Qatar Science and Technology Park, set up to commercialise research in energy, the environment, healthcare and IT; he recently established an experimental facility with Qatari company GreenGulf to study solar-to-electricity conversion methods. \"Instead of putting our money into a solar company in the UK or Germany, we are investing in our own country,\" he says. \"There is nobody doing what we are doing in a comprehensive and strategic way.\"With a dry smile, he adds: \"But it's easy for us because we are a small country and don't have a corrupt parliament.\"As Britain remains in recession, Qatar's per capita income has crossed the $70,000 (\u00a343,000) a head mark, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world. The Qatar Central Bank estimates growth of 7-9% for this year; the IMF predicts growth of 15-18%. Whatever: these are figures Alistair Darling would give his second home for. Dubai, which has little in the way of oil and gas, may have gone through a highly leveraged boom and bust (see below), but Qatar is in a very different position.It is currently running a small budget deficit - the first for nearly a decade - because oil prices have been low, although if they show a sustained improvement, that will be eradicated by the end of the fiscal year. But it has a good credit rating, and, most important, it has about 90 years' worth of oil reserves and more than 200 years of gas production. Not that there is any schadenfreude at Dubai's downfall; the feeling is that the whole region will have to support Dubai for the sake of collective credibility.Neither have the Qataris got too overwrought about the recent rise in the oil price to a six-month high above $67 a barrel, which has led some commentators to speculate about a resurgence of the petro-powers. Opec, the oil producers' cartel, wants to see the price stabilise at around $75 a barrel, which it reckons is the level needed to ensure investment in new supplies. Whether or not that pans out, the Qataris are interested in moving beyond petro-power and rebasing their economy so they are not hostage to a volatile oil price.Ahmad Anani, a partner in the Al-Tamimi law firm in Doha, says: \"I don't think Qatar perceives itself as a petro-power in the conventional sense ... There is no interest in flexing their muscles like Vladimir Putin, or in blowing money in Mayfair casinos. They are using the money to develop the country.\"Qatar has been cushioned from the global downturn by its position as the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG) - gas that has been turned into liquid form, making it easier to ship around the world. The UK is a big customer: the Queen and the Emir opened a new LNG terminal in Milford Haven last month. But despite the fact that LNG is a superb resource, the Qataris see no reason to rest on their laurels.Phillip Thorpe, chairman and chief executive of the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) Regulatory Authority, says: \"Whether oil is at a sustainable level is anyone's guess. The real point is that there has been a maturity around the way the government is approaching oil and gas revenue. It is a wonderful bounty today, but what about tomorrow? There are decades of gas reserves and you would think it's a good reason to go to the beach - but that is not future-proofing the economy.\"Thorpe is a key player in one form of future-proofing: the push to turn Doha into a regional financial centre - a Switzerland in the sand, with insurance and wealth management as major elements. The QFC's headquarters, where Thorpe has his offices, are in a building that is only a few years old - though that makes it practically an ancient monument by the standards of West Bay. It started in 2005; now it has 113 staff and licensed its 100th institution at the end of last year, a Qatari full-service Islamic bank. Next month it will launch Qatar Insurance Services, a system for processing and trading between insurers and reinsurers, with 17 firms as strategic partners.Another major initiative is the setting up of the Qatar Finance and Business Academy, to try to ensure there are enough well-trained local staff to run a 21st-century financial centre. Jon Morton, QFC's director for financial development and a former deputy principal of Henley Management College, says: \"We need to concentrate on middle-management talent - things like the English language, and a focus on the customer, not an internal focus.\"The structure and the skills of the population are a serious challenge. Of the 1.5 million residents, only around 250,000 or so are native Qataris; the rest are expats. It means very few people will be supporting what could be a very large and turbocharged economic engine. Mohamad Moabi, assistant general manager with Qatar National Bank, says: \"The challenge is to develop citizens for a post-oil economy. A knowledge-based economy is very important.\"To that end, education is free from kindergarten to university level. The seriousness of the commitment to learning is manifest in Education City, a 14 sq km development on the outskirts of Doha that houses not only schools but outposts of leading US universities such as Cornell, Georgetown and Carnegie Mellon. As one British expat sighs: \"If my kids were Qatari citizens, all my worries about education would be over.\"Dr Mohamed Fathy Saoud, president of the Qatar Foundation, which backs Education City, says: \"Human resources are more important than oil and gas resources. We are bringing one of the brightest facets of western civilisation to the region: the top universities. If you talk to people on the street they will be opposed to what the US and the UK did in Iraq, but this project is saying 'look beyond that to what these countries have contributed to education and research'.\"The sheer pace of economic development is throwing up social and cultural issues. One is the situation of women. The Emir's consort, Sheikha Mozah, plays a highly visible role in a region where royal wives until recently were rarely seen and certainly never heard.While it is a deeply conservative society, Qatari women can vote, drive and play a full part in the workplace: headscarves are a frequent sight, but the dress code for women is not as strict as in Saudi. Dr Sheikha Abdulla al-Misnad, president of Qatar University, says about half her staff and 70% of her students are women. \"We are very proud of how well our young women are doing, but there is an issue about our young men. Girls work hard and get better grades in high school, while young men drop out.\" Girls have been high achievers partly because of cultural expectations, she adds. \"Society expects women to work in a safe and professional environment, in a high status job, not to be in low-skill jobs and this is part of the reason why they are they are so determined to succeed academically. It is creating social problems because women are finding their marriage suitors are less qualified. \"The number of single women is increasing. It is difficult for lots of young professional women to find a husband. People don't have taboos about women in education because when education started in Qatar it started for both men and women from the outset, unlike many universities in the West which had been were exclusively for men for decades before women were granted access to higher education.\" None the less, the divide may be creating social tensions simply because the women are finding many eligible bachelors less qualified than they are. While the Qataris are keen to show visitors their sunlit uplands, one does have a sense of a reserved, multi-layered, complex society where difficult topics are not discussed, particularly with western journalists. Qatar has been keen to establish itself as the focal point of the new Arab media: its flagship broadcaster is Al-Jazeera, founded in 1996 and regulated by the UK's Ofcom in the hope of fending off accusations of bias, and the Doha Centre for Media Freedom was set up last year. Participants don't pull punches in the Doha Debates, a forum for free speech tackling the region's thorniest issues. In the most recent, the vote was in favour of letting Muslim women marry men of their choice. However, the media has a deferential air and the line is that the press should be free, but \"respectful\".Thorpe, who was pushed out of his job as head of the Dubai financial regulator after objecting to interference from above, says he is able to operate in Qatar without fear or favour: \"The message being sent out by the Emir and the government is that everyone has to abide by the rules.\" But it's important to remember who makes the rules. The Emir, who deposed his father in a bloodless coup in 1995, may be an enlightened monarch who has moved towards democracy, but there is no doubt who is in charge.The credit crunch has led to greater questioning of the western economic and social model. As Moabi says: \"Excessive risk-taking and innovation in financial products really hurt the financial system ... Who would have thought that GM would be filing for bankruptcy? We don't have MPs abusing expenses, or Madoffs. Our image of western people is not tarnished, but our image of the system is.\"Like the UK, Qatar is a small nation punching above its weight. Like the UK, it wants to become a knowledge-based economy. Like Tony Blair, it has a leader who believes in education, education, education. Perhaps - unlike the UK, which failed to husband its oil wealth - it will make wise use of its windfall.Dubai has been through a painful learning experience over the past six months. The boomtown of the Gulf, bling capital of the Middle East and the most globalised of the region's economies, it has born the brunt of the world's financial hurricane.Casualties range from the property speculators who lost millions in the 65% collapse of real estate prices to the sun-seeking expatriates who have quit their tax-free beachside lifestyles, down to the lowly-paid construction workers who have been \"relocated\" to other projects in the Gulf or back to their homes in Kerala or Guangdong.But perhaps the real long-term victim has been Dubai's self-esteem. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, Dubai's ruler, has had to pull back from the vision that saw the emirate as \"an Arab city of global significance, to rival Cordoba and Baghdad\".Instead, he has turned to Abu Dhabi, the rich but not much liked \"big brother\" of the UAE federation, for a handout. And \"Dubai Inc\" has had to trim its plans to be biggest, tallest and most expensive in everything from man-made islands to luxury hotels.The crisis hit Dubai so hard because it is not an archetypal oil-rich Gulf state. Its oil began to run out in the 1990s and now comprises around 3% of GDP. To their credit, the al-Maktoum dynasty saw this coming and set in train the process of economic diversification that sparked Dubai's emergence as a hub for tourism, air-travel, regional commerce and financial services. Dubai swapped oil dependence for real-estate dependence, with perhaps 40% of all economic activity related to property.When times were good and credit cheap, this strategy served the emirate well. Dubai Inc performed like a giant operating company, funding growth through borrowing and cash-generation. But the credit crunch hit the emirate at just the wrong phase of the cycle, when borrowings had hit $80bn.For a while, the reaction was denial, and warning signs were downplayed in the muzzled press. But when the ruling elite pulled their heads out of the sand, a series of crisis measures were enacted - an Abu Dhabi-backed $20bn bond issue, injections of liquidity into the financial system, and the establishment of a committee of the emirates' leading businessmen to oversee a recovery strategy.The first signs of recovery are perceptible. House prices rose by 5% last month, banks are lending again and the cranes are moving once more over the bigger construction projects. Green shoots are visible - just.But all eyes now are on the forecast emigration of expats as the fierce summer takes hold. Just how many decide to return to their \"Dubai dream\" will determine how quickly the emirate pulls of out of its nosedive.\u2022 Frank Kane is a columnist with The National of Abu Dhabi. These are his own views.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Economic recovery", "Construction industry", "Housing market", "Business", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "The gender gap", "Education", "Media", "Qatar"], "title": "Beyond oil: a Switzerland in the sands"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "As soon as Alistair Darling revealed the 50% income tax rate for those earning over \u00a3150,000 on Wednesday, he was accused of saving the wrong economy. Rather than filling the Treasury's empty coffers, the move would benefit fiscally lenient countries such as Switzerland, said some commentators. One thinktank estimated that around 25,000 high-end taxpayers would shift tax regimes, with the low-tax cantons of Switzerland the biggest beneficiaries.At least one relocation company has already seen a spike in inquiries about living the Alpine life since the budget. \"In the 24 hours afterwards, we saw a 41% increase in people in the UK searching for Switzerland, compared to Monday,\" said Anne Wright of estate agents Prime Location International.It's one thing doing an idle internet search, another entirely for Britain's highest earners to actually swap the bright lights of the City for the sedate charms of Z\u00fcrich or Zermatt. After all, the exodus predicted last time the bank balances of the super-rich were supposedly under threat - when the government moved to change the laws around \"non-doms\" - never materialised. And, to paraphrase Orson Welles in The Third Man, what does Switzerland really have to offer the masters of the universe beyond longevous brotherly love and cuckoo clocks?The answer, as Lewis Hamilton, Tina Turner, David Bowie and all of the other megarich celebrities who relocated there will no doubt be too coy to admit, is: the lowest taxes in Europe.\"How much tax you pay in Switzerland depends on whether you are single, married or have children, how much you earn and where you live,\" said Gema Ricart of the Swiss government's finance department. A study by BAK Basle Economic says high earners would pay the lowest taxes in Switzerland by moving to Zug, in the middle of the country. There, a single, highly qualified person earning \u20ac100,000 a year would pay just 22%, compared with 38.2% in the UK.For the really rich, the Swiss have cooked up a rather nice deal they call the taxe \u00e0 forfait. This lump sum tax politely ignores the money you actually make and simply assesses your annual consumption, typically by multiplying the deemed or actual rental income on your home in Switzerland. This figure is multiplied by five and then taxed at normal Swiss tax rates. So even if you're lording it up in a luxury chalet in Zug costing \u00a3100,000 a year, you will pay no more than \u00a362,500 in taxes. If you're Bernie Ecclestone with an estimated \u00a32.4bn fortune, the attractions are obvious.But so are the drawbacks. Jonathan Ivinson, head of European tax at Hogan & Hartson, spends most of his time in Geneva. \"It is a very different pace of life to London,\" he said. \"If you want to have a choice of more than three things to do in an evening, it's probably not for you. One major British company looked at relocating to Switzerland, but when the directors went to have a look there, they realised there was absolutely no way. It just seemed too tedious for them. But with this 50% tax, you can imagine more people giving it serious consideration, especially those with software or IT businesses, which aren't tied to a location.\"Lewis Tonkinson, director of Pinnacle Marketing Communications, said: \"I have considered it. My company brings in \u00a32m each year from abroad in fees. What is the point in working 12-hour days to give it to the government?\"But many Swiss are fed up of their country being known primarily as a tax haven. \"It is a pity we are known first as a low-tax country,\" said Patrick Djizmedjian from OSEC, which promotes the country abroad as a potential business location. \"We don't just want to be known for that. Switzerland is an attractive location for many other reasons: we have very good infrastructure, a good transport system where workers hardly ever strike, and we are based in the heart of Europe.\"Switzerland might also not be a low tax mecca for ever. \"In Z\u00fcrich recently, people voted to abolish the lump sum tax in a referendum,\" said Ricart. \"So Tina Turner might be moving.\"", "tags": ["Budget", "UK news", "Income tax", "Money", "Switzerland", "World news", "Alistair Darling", "Politics", "Tax and spending", "Economics", "Business", "Budget 2009", "Europe"], "title": "Income tax rise: Alpine life tempts, but rich may end on slippery slope"},{"date": "2009-06-18T23:05:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Mark Cavendish yesterday won his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland, beating the former world champion Oscar Freire in Bad Zurzach with his customary quick acceleration. It was the 24-year-old's 13th win of the season, and he is well on track to beat last year's 17 victories, his best as a professional.The Briton paid tribute to his Columbia-Highroad team-mates, who gave him the perfect lead-out to launch his sprint. \"It was easy to win here today,\" he said. \"[My team-mate] George Hincapie brought me into a good position, and I moved around [Thor] Hushovd. I was quite tired [at the start of the stage], it was a difficult, technical course, and the finale was very physical.\"With the start of the Tour de France just over a fortnight away, Cavendish's form in Switzerland augurs well for his chances of adding to his four stage wins last year. And his chances of also targeting the green jersey, for most consistent sprinter, were boosted last night with the Tour de France organisers, ASO, confirming that Tom Boonen, a former green jersey winner, would be banned from this year's race after his positive test for cocaine in April.Lance Armstrong's Tour de France challenge also remains on track, with his team, Astana, announcing yesterday that its financial problems have been resolved until the end of the season. Having missed a payment deadline to the International Cycling Union on Tuesday evening the Kazakh-backed team faced suspension, but it seems that the squad has been bailed out by the Kazakh government.\"Thanks to the guarantees made by the Kazakh government we can continue,\" said the team's manager, Johan Bruyneel. \"The government showed that \u2013 despite the economic crisis \u2013 they really want to invest in cycling [and] they succeeded in finding funds.\" It had been reported that the team faced a shortfall of $9m (\u00a35.5m).", "tags": ["Tour de France 2009", "Mark Cavendish", "Lance Armstrong", "Tour de France", "Cycling"], "title": "Mark Cavendish wins his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-04-30T18:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The number of people confirmed to have swine flu has risen above 250, the World Health Organisation said today, adding that it would stop using the term \"swine flu\" to avoid confusion over the danger posed by pigs. Instead the virus will be called Influenza A H1N1.The announcement came after the WHO raised its global epidemic threat level to phase five \u2013 the second highest level \u2013 in recognition of the growing number of countries affected by the virus.Health experts believe it is a only a matter of time before the WHO raises the alert to phase six, confirming a pandemic is in progress.More than a dozen countries have reported cases of the H1N1 strain, many of them in Europe.The Irish Republic confirmed its first probable case today, an adult male who has recently returned from Mexico. The chief medical officer, Dr Tony Holohan, said the man had tested positive for type A flu, and was now being tested for the H1N1 strain. Experts said the case was \"likely to be positive\" when the test results returned from the UK.The Netherlands and Switzerland confirmed their first cases \u2011 a three-year-old child and a 19-year-old student respectively \u2011 both of whom had travelled to Mexico.The Swiss student was mistakenly released from a hospital after test results were misinterpreted and then hastily readmitted. Switzerland has a further 29 \"suspicious\" cases. In Britain three new cases were confirmed, bringing the total to eight, while Spain, the worst affected European country so far, raised its confirmed cases to 13, with another 84 under observation.In France, medical authorities were conducting tests on 41 people for possible swine flu and said five of those were considered \"probable\" cases.Fran\u00e7oise Weber, head of the state health monitoring agency InVS, said three of the people considered probable cases had been in Mexico. France has no confirmed cases yet of the disease.France today proposed a suspension on all EU flights to Mexico at a meeting of European health ministers in Luxembourg but representatives from other countries including Austria, Spain, Denmark and Germany cast doubt on the effectiveness of such a move.Arriving at the talks, Spain's health minister, Trinidad Jim\u00e9nez, said: \"We have to wait and see what is the evolution of the disease before taking such a drastic measure.\" But the Spanish airline Air Europa said it was cutting most of its flights to Mexico due to plunging demand since the outbreak began.While some country co-ordination on travel curbs could be possible, the European commission - the EU's executive arm - does not have the power to impose an EU-wide ban. EU countries themselves may impose national travel restrictions. The ministers were also expected to discuss development of vaccines and the idea of common vaccine stockpiles.The US vice-president, Joe Biden, caused controversy earlier today when he said he would advise his own family not to travel on commercial airlines, the subway or \"confined spaces\". But as his stark comments prompted accusations of scaremongering, a spokeswoman for the gaffe-prone Biden later clarified that he was just telling sick people to avoid such places.The virus has so far claimed a confirmed seven lives in Mexico, although the death toll is believed to be significantly higher \u2013 many suspected deaths are yet to be confirmed as H1N1. There has also been one confirmed death in the United States.", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Health", "Switzerland", "Netherlands", "World news", "US news", "Mexico", "Ireland", "Society", "World Health Organisation", "Flu", "Life and style", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Global swine flu cases top 250"},{"date": "2009-04-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "\u2022 There has been a hunt for the foreign bolthole of the former head of the Royal Bank of Scotland, Sir Fred Goodwin, as he seeks a quiet place to stir his pension pot. Reporters at the Guardian have been begging us not to reveal his true whereabouts as they try to persuade a sceptical newsdesk to let them follow up their own hot tips that the hideaway is in St Lucia/Buenos Aires/Tahiti and so on. Now we hear from an unimpeachable source who offers us the \"100%, red-hot, bottom dollar\" info that Sir Fred has been given refuge by Sir Jackie Stewart, for many years an RBS ambassador, at his gaff in Switzerland. Switzerland. Suddenly, the hunt seems less urgent.\u2022 But what of that \"lost weekend\", when Sir Fred's compensation package was agreed? David Lowry, a researcher working in both the UK and European parliaments, put in a Freedom of Information request to try to find out just what did take place. He received this response from the Information Rights Unit on behalf of the Treasury. \"Dear Dr Lowry, Thank you for your inquiry ... You asked for: all minutes, memoranda and related emails of meetings held between Treasury ministers and officials with the Royal Bank of Scotland officials between 6-12 October 2008. I confirm that the Treasury holds information falling within the description of your request. However, we estimate that the cost of complying with your request would exceed the appropriate cost limit. The appropriate limit has been specified in regulations, and for central government is set at \u00a3600. This estimates the cost of one person spending three and a half working days in determining whether the department holds the information and locating, retrieving and extracting the information. Under section 12 of the Freedom of Information Act, the department is not obliged to comply with your request and we will not be processing your request further.\" Is there anybody out there - in the Alps maybe - who could help with the cost? \u2022 Where was David Cameron on the night that Gordon Brown and Barack Obama and 18 other national leaders sat down to save the world last week? At Tramp, the London \"nightclub\". He was there to celebrate the publication of the new racing novel Citizen, by Charlie Brooks, the partner of the editor of the Sun, Rebekah Wade. Oh, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave. Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, could you not have found somewhere - anywhere - more statesmanlike, not to mention cooler, than Tramp?\u2022 The campaign to halt the extradition to the US of computer hacker, Gary McKinnon (left) continues apace. The former Beirut hostage Terry Waite is just one of many to offer his support. Now singer-songwriter Graham Nash has agreed to let the campaign change the lyrics of his 1968 song Chicago to send a musical message to President Obama, urging him to intervene and prevent what is now widely accepted as a disproportionate response to something that happened years ago. David Gilmour, formerly of Pink Floyd, and other leading musicians are also helping Gary's mother, Janis Sharp, to produce a new version of the song. A judicial review of home secretary Jacqui Smith's refusal to consider medical evidence of McKinnon's Asperger's syndrome is listed for 9 June. Still time for a musically hip president from Chicago to hear a CD and take appropriate action.\u2022 We know all about North Korea's long-range rocket but, much more important, how is the top official in its London embassy transported? It may be one of the poorest countries in Asia, but the ambassador to London of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) has a top of the range Mercedes, with the bashful registration number of PRK1D to take him from the Ealing, west London, embassy. But then he does have to keep up with his flashy southern neighbour - the ambassador of South Korea, or the Republic of Korea, who is whizzed around London in an equally glitzy limousine, ROK1. Instead of an expensive arms race, how about one between the two embassy motors twice round the North Circular?", "tags": ["Politics"], "title": "Duncan Campbell's diary: Hunt for the foreign bolthole of the former head of the Royal Bank of Scotland, Sir Fred Goodwin"},{"date": "2009-05-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "1 Issigonis's first design sketch for the Mini was drawn on a napkin in Switzerland.2 In 1961, racing driver Stirling Moss was banned for a year for speeding in a Mini, allegedly while testing it for a Sunday paper.3 In 1964, BMC tested a 2.3-litre Mini with engines at both ends. It was so fast development was dropped.4 Rumour has it Issigonis designed the door bins in the original Mini to hold a bottle of gin and several tonics. Or maybe it was just pints of milk.5 How many people can you fit in a Mini? The record is 66, apparently.6 Longest Mini convoy? 269 cars.7 Joanne Westlake was the fi rst person to be born in a Mini.8 Actor Kevin Spacey once paid $130,000 for the last classic Mini Cooper to be built.9 Most famous death in a Mini? Marc Bolan of T Rex, who was in a crash in a 1275 GT.10 The breathtaking escape through the Turin sewers by gold bar-filled Mini Coopers in The Italian Job was filmed in Coventry.(Source: Mini: An Intimate Biography)", "tags": ["Motoring", "Technology"], "title": "Four wheels good: ten little facts about the Mini"},{"date": "2009-06-22T20:04:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland faces economic sanctions if it delays opening up its notoriously secretive banks to international scrutiny. The threat will be made today by world finance ministers in a key meeting to discuss how to broaden the crackdown on tax havens that are draining exchequers of tens of billions of dollars each year.The meeting of finance ministers in Berlin will report on progress towards complying with new international demands on tax transparency following the G20 summit in London in April. Failure to comply will be greeted with \"hostility\" warned one official. Unlike at London, Switzerland has been invited to attend.The Swiss are rushing to sign bilateral information-sharing agreements with 12 countries by the end of the year. So far it has agreed six but it needs 12 treaties to remove itself from a \"grey list\" of countries deemed not to have met international tax transparency standards.Switzerland reached a double tax agreement with the United States last week. However, its leading bank, UBS, still faces a potentially damaging court trial next month for its part in a tax evasion scandal allegedly involving up to 52,000 US account holders. It has also suffered a huge outflow of money from its private banks in recent months as the wealthy grow nervous that the end of Swiss bank secrecy is coming closer.Jeffrey Owens, director of the OECD Centre for Tax Policy and Administration, said last week that summit participants would stipulate what signs of progress they expect to see from countries on the list, and also suggested that the patience of world powers with tax havens such as Liechtenstein, the Caymans and Switzerland was running out. \"Political tolerance for non-compliance is headed rapidly towards zero,\" he said. Owens added, however, that there had been a great deal of progress on the tax haven issue over the last six months.But campaigners argue that the weight of evidence required by tax \u00adinvestigators to force tax haven officials to hand over details of accounts on suspected tax evaders is so onerous that the current treaties are ineffective. There is pressure on the OECD, the thinktank of leading nations which sets international tax standards, to force countries to sign more treaties and to introduce automatic information-sharing agreements.Stephen Timms, the financial secretary to the Treasury, will use the Berlin meeting today to call for the introduction of a radical new measure to force global firms to reveal exactly the profits they make and the tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in. Known as country-by-country reporting, the proposal is likely to gain strong support from the French and Germans as a way of ensuring countries economies can weather the financial crisis that has destroyed tax revenues.The role of tax incentives in propagating the bank crisis is also likely to come under the microscope following a recent IMF paper arguing that \"tax distortions are likely to have encouraged excessive leveraging and other financial market problems evident in the crisis\". Private equity firms, in particular, have used tax incentives on debt to finance corporate raids that are now unwinding.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "UBS", "Switzerland", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland faces sanctions over banking secrecy"},{"date": "2009-06-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It's reality TV, but not as we know it. While we have been gripped by the rise and fall of Susan Boyle on Britain's Got Talent, viewers in Qatar are tuning in to Stars of Science, a new reality show beamed across the Arab world, where brainy youngsters compete to produce the best invention.Among the hopefuls is Hashem al-Sada, a 22-year-old Qatari who is not a star on YouTube, but has devised a tent fitted with solar panels for electricity generation. The show has deliberately eschewed the cruelty of booting out losing candidates: instead, they are invited to team up with successful competitors. Stars of Science encapsulates the huge faith Qatar puts in research and innovation; the contrast between it and our version of reality TV also says something about the arrogance of assuming western cultural values are automatically superior, though that's another story. It is not just the TV that is different in Doha. Flying from a downbeat London into the vast, pristine international air terminal is like arriving in another world. The commercial property market in the UK is on its knees, but in the West Bay business district gleaming towers are springing up in the blistering 50C heat. They bear witness to the determination to reduce Qatar's dependence on oil and gas by building a sort of Canary Wharf in the desert - only without the excessive bonuses and the ruinous risk-taking.While Gordon Brown's grip on government has been weakened by the crunch and the MPs' expenses scandal, the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Hamad Bin Khalifa al-Thani, does not have to deal with the inconvenience of an electorate and has been able to press quietly ahead with plans to diversify the economy.Dr Tidu Maini is executive chairman of the Qatar Science and Technology Park, set up to commercialise research in energy, the environment, healthcare and IT; he recently established an experimental facility with Qatari company GreenGulf to study solar-to-electricity conversion methods. \"Instead of putting our money into a solar company in the UK or Germany, we are investing in our own country,\" he says. \"There is nobody doing what we are doing in a comprehensive and strategic way.\"With a dry smile, he adds: \"But it's easy for us because we are a small country and don't have a corrupt parliament.\"As Britain remains in recession, Qatar's per capita income has crossed the $70,000 (\u00a343,000) a head mark, making it one of the wealthiest nations in the world. The Qatar Central Bank estimates growth of 7-9% for this year; the IMF predicts growth of 15-18%. Whatever: these are figures Alistair Darling would give his second home for. Dubai, which has little in the way of oil and gas, may have gone through a highly leveraged boom and bust (see below), but Qatar is in a very different position.It is currently running a small budget deficit - the first for nearly a decade - because oil prices have been low, although if they show a sustained improvement, that will be eradicated by the end of the fiscal year. But it has a good credit rating, and, most important, it has about 90 years' worth of oil reserves and more than 200 years of gas production. Not that there is any schadenfreude at Dubai's downfall; the feeling is that the whole region will have to support Dubai for the sake of collective credibility.Neither have the Qataris got too overwrought about the recent rise in the oil price to a six-month high above $67 a barrel, which has led some commentators to speculate about a resurgence of the petro-powers. Opec, the oil producers' cartel, wants to see the price stabilise at around $75 a barrel, which it reckons is the level needed to ensure investment in new supplies. Whether or not that pans out, the Qataris are interested in moving beyond petro-power and rebasing their economy so they are not hostage to a volatile oil price.Ahmad Anani, a partner in the Al-Tamimi law firm in Doha, says: \"I don't think Qatar perceives itself as a petro-power in the conventional sense ... There is no interest in flexing their muscles like Vladimir Putin, or in blowing money in Mayfair casinos. They are using the money to develop the country.\"Qatar has been cushioned from the global downturn by its position as the world's leading exporter of liquefied natural gas (LNG) - gas that has been turned into liquid form, making it easier to ship around the world. The UK is a big customer: the Queen and the Emir opened a new LNG terminal in Milford Haven last month. But despite the fact that LNG is a superb resource, the Qataris see no reason to rest on their laurels.Phillip Thorpe, chairman and chief executive of the Qatar Financial Centre (QFC) Regulatory Authority, says: \"Whether oil is at a sustainable level is anyone's guess. The real point is that there has been a maturity around the way the government is approaching oil and gas revenue. It is a wonderful bounty today, but what about tomorrow? There are decades of gas reserves and you would think it's a good reason to go to the beach - but that is not future-proofing the economy.\"Thorpe is a key player in one form of future-proofing: the push to turn Doha into a regional financial centre - a Switzerland in the sand, with insurance and wealth management as major elements. The QFC's headquarters, where Thorpe has his offices, are in a building that is only a few years old - though that makes it practically an ancient monument by the standards of West Bay. It started in 2005; now it has 113 staff and licensed its 100th institution at the end of last year, a Qatari full-service Islamic bank. Next month it will launch Qatar Insurance Services, a system for processing and trading between insurers and reinsurers, with 17 firms as strategic partners.Another major initiative is the setting up of the Qatar Finance and Business Academy, to try to ensure there are enough well-trained local staff to run a 21st-century financial centre. Jon Morton, QFC's director for financial development and a former deputy principal of Henley Management College, says: \"We need to concentrate on middle-management talent - things like the English language, and a focus on the customer, not an internal focus.\"The structure and the skills of the population are a serious challenge. Of the 1.5 million residents, only around 250,000 or so are native Qataris; the rest are expats. It means very few people will be supporting what could be a very large and turbocharged economic engine. Mohamad Moabi, assistant general manager with Qatar National Bank, says: \"The challenge is to develop citizens for a post-oil economy. A knowledge-based economy is very important.\"To that end, education is free from kindergarten to university level. The seriousness of the commitment to learning is manifest in Education City, a 14 sq km development on the outskirts of Doha that houses not only schools but outposts of leading US universities such as Cornell, Georgetown and Carnegie Mellon. As one British expat sighs: \"If my kids were Qatari citizens, all my worries about education would be over.\"Dr Mohamed Fathy Saoud, president of the Qatar Foundation, which backs Education City, says: \"Human resources are more important than oil and gas resources. We are bringing one of the brightest facets of western civilisation to the region: the top universities. If you talk to people on the street they will be opposed to what the US and the UK did in Iraq, but this project is saying 'look beyond that to what these countries have contributed to education and research'.\"The sheer pace of economic development is throwing up social and cultural issues. One is the situation of women. The Emir's consort, Sheikha Mozah, plays a highly visible role in a region where royal wives until recently were rarely seen and certainly never heard.While it is a deeply conservative society, Qatari women can vote, drive and play a full part in the workplace: headscarves are a frequent sight, but the dress code for women is not as strict as in Saudi. Dr Sheikha Abdulla al-Misnad, president of Qatar University, says about half her staff and 70% of her students are women. \"We are very proud of how well our young women are doing, but there is an issue about our young men. Girls work hard and get better grades in high school, while young men drop out.\" Girls have been high achievers partly because of cultural expectations, she adds. \"Society expects women to work in a safe and professional environment, in a high status job, not to be in low-skill jobs and this is part of the reason why they are they are so determined to succeed academically. It is creating social problems because women are finding their marriage suitors are less qualified. \"The number of single women is increasing. It is difficult for lots of young professional women to find a husband. People don't have taboos about women in education because when education started in Qatar it started for both men and women from the outset, unlike many universities in the West which had been were exclusively for men for decades before women were granted access to higher education.\" None the less, the divide may be creating social tensions simply because the women are finding many eligible bachelors less qualified than they are. While the Qataris are keen to show visitors their sunlit uplands, one does have a sense of a reserved, multi-layered, complex society where difficult topics are not discussed, particularly with western journalists. Qatar has been keen to establish itself as the focal point of the new Arab media: its flagship broadcaster is Al-Jazeera, founded in 1996 and regulated by the UK's Ofcom in the hope of fending off accusations of bias, and the Doha Centre for Media Freedom was set up last year. Participants don't pull punches in the Doha Debates, a forum for free speech tackling the region's thorniest issues. In the most recent, the vote was in favour of letting Muslim women marry men of their choice. However, the media has a deferential air and the line is that the press should be free, but \"respectful\".Thorpe, who was pushed out of his job as head of the Dubai financial regulator after objecting to interference from above, says he is able to operate in Qatar without fear or favour: \"The message being sent out by the Emir and the government is that everyone has to abide by the rules.\" But it's important to remember who makes the rules. The Emir, who deposed his father in a bloodless coup in 1995, may be an enlightened monarch who has moved towards democracy, but there is no doubt who is in charge.The credit crunch has led to greater questioning of the western economic and social model. As Moabi says: \"Excessive risk-taking and innovation in financial products really hurt the financial system ... Who would have thought that GM would be filing for bankruptcy? We don't have MPs abusing expenses, or Madoffs. Our image of western people is not tarnished, but our image of the system is.\"Like the UK, Qatar is a small nation punching above its weight. Like the UK, it wants to become a knowledge-based economy. Like Tony Blair, it has a leader who believes in education, education, education. Perhaps - unlike the UK, which failed to husband its oil wealth - it will make wise use of its windfall.Dubai has been through a painful learning experience over the past six months. The boomtown of the Gulf, bling capital of the Middle East and the most globalised of the region's economies, it has born the brunt of the world's financial hurricane.Casualties range from the property speculators who lost millions in the 65% collapse of real estate prices to the sun-seeking expatriates who have quit their tax-free beachside lifestyles, down to the lowly-paid construction workers who have been \"relocated\" to other projects in the Gulf or back to their homes in Kerala or Guangdong.But perhaps the real long-term victim has been Dubai's self-esteem. Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid al-Maktoum, Dubai's ruler, has had to pull back from the vision that saw the emirate as \"an Arab city of global significance, to rival Cordoba and Baghdad\".Instead, he has turned to Abu Dhabi, the rich but not much liked \"big brother\" of the UAE federation, for a handout. And \"Dubai Inc\" has had to trim its plans to be biggest, tallest and most expensive in everything from man-made islands to luxury hotels.The crisis hit Dubai so hard because it is not an archetypal oil-rich Gulf state. Its oil began to run out in the 1990s and now comprises around 3% of GDP. To their credit, the al-Maktoum dynasty saw this coming and set in train the process of economic diversification that sparked Dubai's emergence as a hub for tourism, air-travel, regional commerce and financial services. Dubai swapped oil dependence for real-estate dependence, with perhaps 40% of all economic activity related to property.When times were good and credit cheap, this strategy served the emirate well. Dubai Inc performed like a giant operating company, funding growth through borrowing and cash-generation. But the credit crunch hit the emirate at just the wrong phase of the cycle, when borrowings had hit $80bn.For a while, the reaction was denial, and warning signs were downplayed in the muzzled press. But when the ruling elite pulled their heads out of the sand, a series of crisis measures were enacted - an Abu Dhabi-backed $20bn bond issue, injections of liquidity into the financial system, and the establishment of a committee of the emirates' leading businessmen to oversee a recovery strategy.The first signs of recovery are perceptible. House prices rose by 5% last month, banks are lending again and the cranes are moving once more over the bigger construction projects. Green shoots are visible - just.But all eyes now are on the forecast emigration of expats as the fierce summer takes hold. Just how many decide to return to their \"Dubai dream\" will determine how quickly the emirate pulls of out of its nosedive.\u2022 Frank Kane is a columnist with The National of Abu Dhabi. These are his own views.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil and gas companies", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Economic recovery", "Construction industry", "Housing market", "Business", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "The gender gap", "Education", "Media", "Qatar"], "title": "Beyond oil: a Switzerland in the sands"},{"date": "2009-04-23T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "As soon as Alistair Darling revealed the 50% income tax rate for those earning over \u00a3150,000 on Wednesday, he was accused of saving the wrong economy. Rather than filling the Treasury's empty coffers, the move would benefit fiscally lenient countries such as Switzerland, said some commentators. One thinktank estimated that around 25,000 high-end taxpayers would shift tax regimes, with the low-tax cantons of Switzerland the biggest beneficiaries.At least one relocation company has already seen a spike in inquiries about living the Alpine life since the budget. \"In the 24 hours afterwards, we saw a 41% increase in people in the UK searching for Switzerland, compared to Monday,\" said Anne Wright of estate agents Prime Location International.It's one thing doing an idle internet search, another entirely for Britain's highest earners to actually swap the bright lights of the City for the sedate charms of Z\u00fcrich or Zermatt. After all, the exodus predicted last time the bank balances of the super-rich were supposedly under threat - when the government moved to change the laws around \"non-doms\" - never materialised. And, to paraphrase Orson Welles in The Third Man, what does Switzerland really have to offer the masters of the universe beyond longevous brotherly love and cuckoo clocks?The answer, as Lewis Hamilton, Tina Turner, David Bowie and all of the other megarich celebrities who relocated there will no doubt be too coy to admit, is: the lowest taxes in Europe.\"How much tax you pay in Switzerland depends on whether you are single, married or have children, how much you earn and where you live,\" said Gema Ricart of the Swiss government's finance department. A study by BAK Basle Economic says high earners would pay the lowest taxes in Switzerland by moving to Zug, in the middle of the country. There, a single, highly qualified person earning \u20ac100,000 a year would pay just 22%, compared with 38.2% in the UK.For the really rich, the Swiss have cooked up a rather nice deal they call the taxe \u00e0 forfait. This lump sum tax politely ignores the money you actually make and simply assesses your annual consumption, typically by multiplying the deemed or actual rental income on your home in Switzerland. This figure is multiplied by five and then taxed at normal Swiss tax rates. So even if you're lording it up in a luxury chalet in Zug costing \u00a3100,000 a year, you will pay no more than \u00a362,500 in taxes. If you're Bernie Ecclestone with an estimated \u00a32.4bn fortune, the attractions are obvious.But so are the drawbacks. Jonathan Ivinson, head of European tax at Hogan & Hartson, spends most of his time in Geneva. \"It is a very different pace of life to London,\" he said. \"If you want to have a choice of more than three things to do in an evening, it's probably not for you. One major British company looked at relocating to Switzerland, but when the directors went to have a look there, they realised there was absolutely no way. It just seemed too tedious for them. But with this 50% tax, you can imagine more people giving it serious consideration, especially those with software or IT businesses, which aren't tied to a location.\"Lewis Tonkinson, director of Pinnacle Marketing Communications, said: \"I have considered it. My company brings in \u00a32m each year from abroad in fees. What is the point in working 12-hour days to give it to the government?\"But many Swiss are fed up of their country being known primarily as a tax haven. \"It is a pity we are known first as a low-tax country,\" said Patrick Djizmedjian from OSEC, which promotes the country abroad as a potential business location. \"We don't just want to be known for that. Switzerland is an attractive location for many other reasons: we have very good infrastructure, a good transport system where workers hardly ever strike, and we are based in the heart of Europe.\"Switzerland might also not be a low tax mecca for ever. \"In Z\u00fcrich recently, people voted to abolish the lump sum tax in a referendum,\" said Ricart. \"So Tina Turner might be moving.\"", "tags": ["Budget", "UK news", "Income tax", "Money", "Switzerland", "World news", "Alistair Darling", "Politics", "Tax and spending", "Economics", "Business", "Budget 2009", "Europe"], "title": "Income tax rise: Alpine life tempts, but rich may end on slippery slope"},{"date": "2009-06-18T23:05:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Mark Cavendish yesterday won his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland, beating the former world champion Oscar Freire in Bad Zurzach with his customary quick acceleration. It was the 24-year-old's 13th win of the season, and he is well on track to beat last year's 17 victories, his best as a professional.The Briton paid tribute to his Columbia-Highroad team-mates, who gave him the perfect lead-out to launch his sprint. \"It was easy to win here today,\" he said. \"[My team-mate] George Hincapie brought me into a good position, and I moved around [Thor] Hushovd. I was quite tired [at the start of the stage], it was a difficult, technical course, and the finale was very physical.\"With the start of the Tour de France just over a fortnight away, Cavendish's form in Switzerland augurs well for his chances of adding to his four stage wins last year. And his chances of also targeting the green jersey, for most consistent sprinter, were boosted last night with the Tour de France organisers, ASO, confirming that Tom Boonen, a former green jersey winner, would be banned from this year's race after his positive test for cocaine in April.Lance Armstrong's Tour de France challenge also remains on track, with his team, Astana, announcing yesterday that its financial problems have been resolved until the end of the season. Having missed a payment deadline to the International Cycling Union on Tuesday evening the Kazakh-backed team faced suspension, but it seems that the squad has been bailed out by the Kazakh government.\"Thanks to the guarantees made by the Kazakh government we can continue,\" said the team's manager, Johan Bruyneel. \"The government showed that \u2013 despite the economic crisis \u2013 they really want to invest in cycling [and] they succeeded in finding funds.\" It had been reported that the team faced a shortfall of $9m (\u00a35.5m).", "tags": ["Tour de France 2009", "Mark Cavendish", "Lance Armstrong", "Tour de France", "Cycling"], "title": "Mark Cavendish wins his second stage of the Tour of Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-04-30T18:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The number of people confirmed to have swine flu has risen above 250, the World Health Organisation said today, adding that it would stop using the term \"swine flu\" to avoid confusion over the danger posed by pigs. Instead the virus will be called Influenza A H1N1.The announcement came after the WHO raised its global epidemic threat level to phase five \u2013 the second highest level \u2013 in recognition of the growing number of countries affected by the virus.Health experts believe it is a only a matter of time before the WHO raises the alert to phase six, confirming a pandemic is in progress.More than a dozen countries have reported cases of the H1N1 strain, many of them in Europe.The Irish Republic confirmed its first probable case today, an adult male who has recently returned from Mexico. The chief medical officer, Dr Tony Holohan, said the man had tested positive for type A flu, and was now being tested for the H1N1 strain. Experts said the case was \"likely to be positive\" when the test results returned from the UK.The Netherlands and Switzerland confirmed their first cases \u2011 a three-year-old child and a 19-year-old student respectively \u2011 both of whom had travelled to Mexico.The Swiss student was mistakenly released from a hospital after test results were misinterpreted and then hastily readmitted. Switzerland has a further 29 \"suspicious\" cases. In Britain three new cases were confirmed, bringing the total to eight, while Spain, the worst affected European country so far, raised its confirmed cases to 13, with another 84 under observation.In France, medical authorities were conducting tests on 41 people for possible swine flu and said five of those were considered \"probable\" cases.Fran\u00e7oise Weber, head of the state health monitoring agency InVS, said three of the people considered probable cases had been in Mexico. France has no confirmed cases yet of the disease.France today proposed a suspension on all EU flights to Mexico at a meeting of European health ministers in Luxembourg but representatives from other countries including Austria, Spain, Denmark and Germany cast doubt on the effectiveness of such a move.Arriving at the talks, Spain's health minister, Trinidad Jim\u00e9nez, said: \"We have to wait and see what is the evolution of the disease before taking such a drastic measure.\" But the Spanish airline Air Europa said it was cutting most of its flights to Mexico due to plunging demand since the outbreak began.While some country co-ordination on travel curbs could be possible, the European commission - the EU's executive arm - does not have the power to impose an EU-wide ban. EU countries themselves may impose national travel restrictions. The ministers were also expected to discuss development of vaccines and the idea of common vaccine stockpiles.The US vice-president, Joe Biden, caused controversy earlier today when he said he would advise his own family not to travel on commercial airlines, the subway or \"confined spaces\". But as his stark comments prompted accusations of scaremongering, a spokeswoman for the gaffe-prone Biden later clarified that he was just telling sick people to avoid such places.The virus has so far claimed a confirmed seven lives in Mexico, although the death toll is believed to be significantly higher \u2013 many suspected deaths are yet to be confirmed as H1N1. There has also been one confirmed death in the United States.", "tags": ["Swine flu", "Health", "Switzerland", "Netherlands", "World news", "US news", "Mexico", "Ireland", "Society", "World Health Organisation", "Flu", "Life and style", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Global swine flu cases top 250"},{"date": "2009-04-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "\u2022 There has been a hunt for the foreign bolthole of the former head of the Royal Bank of Scotland, Sir Fred Goodwin, as he seeks a quiet place to stir his pension pot. Reporters at the Guardian have been begging us not to reveal his true whereabouts as they try to persuade a sceptical newsdesk to let them follow up their own hot tips that the hideaway is in St Lucia/Buenos Aires/Tahiti and so on. Now we hear from an unimpeachable source who offers us the \"100%, red-hot, bottom dollar\" info that Sir Fred has been given refuge by Sir Jackie Stewart, for many years an RBS ambassador, at his gaff in Switzerland. Switzerland. Suddenly, the hunt seems less urgent.\u2022 But what of that \"lost weekend\", when Sir Fred's compensation package was agreed? David Lowry, a researcher working in both the UK and European parliaments, put in a Freedom of Information request to try to find out just what did take place. He received this response from the Information Rights Unit on behalf of the Treasury. \"Dear Dr Lowry, Thank you for your inquiry ... You asked for: all minutes, memoranda and related emails of meetings held between Treasury ministers and officials with the Royal Bank of Scotland officials between 6-12 October 2008. I confirm that the Treasury holds information falling within the description of your request. However, we estimate that the cost of complying with your request would exceed the appropriate cost limit. The appropriate limit has been specified in regulations, and for central government is set at \u00a3600. This estimates the cost of one person spending three and a half working days in determining whether the department holds the information and locating, retrieving and extracting the information. Under section 12 of the Freedom of Information Act, the department is not obliged to comply with your request and we will not be processing your request further.\" Is there anybody out there - in the Alps maybe - who could help with the cost? \u2022 Where was David Cameron on the night that Gordon Brown and Barack Obama and 18 other national leaders sat down to save the world last week? At Tramp, the London \"nightclub\". He was there to celebrate the publication of the new racing novel Citizen, by Charlie Brooks, the partner of the editor of the Sun, Rebekah Wade. Oh, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave, Dave. Of all the gin joints in all the towns in all the world, could you not have found somewhere - anywhere - more statesmanlike, not to mention cooler, than Tramp?\u2022 The campaign to halt the extradition to the US of computer hacker, Gary McKinnon (left) continues apace. The former Beirut hostage Terry Waite is just one of many to offer his support. Now singer-songwriter Graham Nash has agreed to let the campaign change the lyrics of his 1968 song Chicago to send a musical message to President Obama, urging him to intervene and prevent what is now widely accepted as a disproportionate response to something that happened years ago. David Gilmour, formerly of Pink Floyd, and other leading musicians are also helping Gary's mother, Janis Sharp, to produce a new version of the song. A judicial review of home secretary Jacqui Smith's refusal to consider medical evidence of McKinnon's Asperger's syndrome is listed for 9 June. Still time for a musically hip president from Chicago to hear a CD and take appropriate action.\u2022 We know all about North Korea's long-range rocket but, much more important, how is the top official in its London embassy transported? It may be one of the poorest countries in Asia, but the ambassador to London of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) has a top of the range Mercedes, with the bashful registration number of PRK1D to take him from the Ealing, west London, embassy. But then he does have to keep up with his flashy southern neighbour - the ambassador of South Korea, or the Republic of Korea, who is whizzed around London in an equally glitzy limousine, ROK1. Instead of an expensive arms race, how about one between the two embassy motors twice round the North Circular?", "tags": ["Politics"], "title": "Duncan Campbell's diary: Hunt for the foreign bolthole of the former head of the Royal Bank of Scotland, Sir Fred Goodwin"},{"date": "2009-05-06T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "1 Issigonis's first design sketch for the Mini was drawn on a napkin in Switzerland.2 In 1961, racing driver Stirling Moss was banned for a year for speeding in a Mini, allegedly while testing it for a Sunday paper.3 In 1964, BMC tested a 2.3-litre Mini with engines at both ends. It was so fast development was dropped.4 Rumour has it Issigonis designed the door bins in the original Mini to hold a bottle of gin and several tonics. Or maybe it was just pints of milk.5 How many people can you fit in a Mini? The record is 66, apparently.6 Longest Mini convoy? 269 cars.7 Joanne Westlake was the fi rst person to be born in a Mini.8 Actor Kevin Spacey once paid $130,000 for the last classic Mini Cooper to be built.9 Most famous death in a Mini? Marc Bolan of T Rex, who was in a crash in a 1275 GT.10 The breathtaking escape through the Turin sewers by gold bar-filled Mini Coopers in The Italian Job was filmed in Coventry.(Source: Mini: An Intimate Biography)", "tags": ["Motoring", "Technology"], "title": "Four wheels good: ten little facts about the Mini"},{"date": "2009-06-24T16:10:16Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The world's first large-scale test of new technology that uses the heat produced by computers to warm buildings is about to begin in Switzerland.The hope is that the three-year trial of the system, called Aquasar, will lead to carbon emissions reductions of 85% through simultaneously cutting the energy used to cool the chips while also reducing heating bills.Long-term, the main target for the technology is not desk-top computers in homes and offices but the growing number of data centres that form the backbone of the internet and keep businesses ticking over, according to Bruno Michel, who is heading the project at IBM's Zurich Research Laboratory, in Switzerland.Precisely how much energy existing data centres consume is not clear, largely because companies like Google are reluctant to reveal just how many they have and how big they are. But according to Tom Dowdall co-ordinator of Greenpeace International's Green Electronics campaign they are consuming increasing amounts of energy. \"Data centres are one of the main reasons why electricity use is rising in Europe and the US.\"In 2005 data centres were responsible for 1% of global electricity consumption, double the figure of five years earlier, according to Jonathan Koomey, an energy expert at Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratories, in California. And soaring internet traffic means this figure is set to rise rapidly.Around half of the energy consumed by large computer systems is spent cooling the processors to prevent them from overheating \u2013 normally by blowing refrigerated air over them. In contrast the Aquasar system uses water to cool the chips, which is 4000 times more efficient at capturing heat.IBM's new system uses a network of tiny tubes measuring just hundredths of a millimetre across to pump water to within a few hundreds of a millimetre of the chip itself. In the three-year pilot study, this heated water will be used to warm a separate water system to about 65C. This hot water will then be plumbed into the district heating system that serves 60 buildings in the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology, in Zurich.The drive for change, according to Dowdall, is coming not from a desire to reduce emissions but from the escalating electricity bills data centres are generating. \"Companies can't keep increasing their capacity with the current costs,\" he said.Google is already working on other strategies to reduce its power bill. One idea is to place data centres on barges and use sea water to cool them. Another suggestion is to make use of cooler temperatures undergound by placing data centres within old coal mines.", "tags": ["Energy", "Energy efficiency", "Environment", "World news", "IBM", "Technology"], "title": "Could computers be used to heat our homes and offices?"},{"date": "2009-09-27T19:01:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For 31 years he lived as the world's most celebrated fugitive, feted by his peers in the film industry while on the run from American police after admitting having sex with a child.But, it was revealed today, the past has finally caught up with Roman Polanski. The film director was arrested in Switzerland on Saturday on a decades-old warrant relating to the rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977.The director had travelled to Switzerland to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival, the organisers of which expressed \"great consternation and shock\" at his detention.The 76-year-old director of Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown pleaded guilty to the assault at the time but jumped bail and fled the US the following year to avoid a lengthy jail sentence. For more than three decades he has lived in exile in Paris, refusing to return to the US even when he won an Oscar in 2002 for The Pianist.Zurich police said he was detained at immigration in Zurich on Saturday night at the request of the US justice department and was in custody awaiting extradition.\"I confirm that Mr Polanski has been arrested. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005 in relation to a 1978 warrant,\" said Guido Balmer of the Swiss justice ministry. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody.\" The US will now need to make a formal extradition request, however, and Polanski is likely to challenge his detention in the Swiss courts.Polanski was born in Paris to Polish parents and has French citizenship; France's culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterand said he was \"dumbfounded\" at the arrest, adding that he \"strongly regrets that a new ordeal is being inflicted on someone who has already experienced so many of them\". The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, \"is following the case with great attention and shares the minister's hope that the situation can be quickly resolved\", the minister said.Polanski has a house in Switzerland and spent much of the summer there, according to British writer Robert Harris, who in recent months has been working closely with the director on a film adaptation of his novel The Ghost. Harris told the Guardian he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. \"To my knowledge, Roman in recent years has travelled to Germany, Spain, Italy, Egypt, Greece, Russia, China. So why now, all of a sudden, is an elderly man grabbed off a plane on a Saturday night and stuffed into jail?\"The director was permitted one call to his wife, French actor Emmanuelle Seigner, who left their two young children to travel to Switzerland, Harris said. \"This is a high-profile action designed to send out some sort of message to someone somewhere. No one condones what happened in the 70s, but I think this is pretty appalling.\"A statement from the Swiss Association of Directors called it a \"grotesque judicial farce and a monstrous cultural scandal\", while the country's Association of Film Directors and Script Writers called the move \"a slap in the face for the entire cultural community in Switzerland\".Polanski was 44 and already a twice-Oscar-nominated director in March 1977 when he had sex with Samantha Gailey, a 13-year-old model he had hired for a photoshoot, at Jack Nicholson's house in Los Angeles. He has argued that the sex was consensual, saying the girl was \"not unresponsive\", though Gailey said he drugged her with painkillers and champagne before carrying out a \"very scary\" assault.The director pleaded guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse in a deal with prosecutors that saw them drop charges of rape, drugging and sodomy, which could have carried a life sentence, but fled the country in February 1978 when it became apparent that he was likely to serve time in prison.Polanski's arrest is the latest twist in an extraordinary life that has been marked by violence, tragedy and controversy. His family returned to Poland shortly before the outbreak of the second world war and were forced into the Krakow ghetto with thousands of other Jewish families. The young Polanski escaped from the ghetto in 1943, but his parents were shipped to concentration camps, and his mother was murdered in Auschwitz.Polanski married American actor Sharon Tate in 1968, but the following year, when eight months pregnant with his baby, she and four other people were brutally murdered by members of Charles Manson's \"family\".In recent months, lawyers for Polanski have been seeking through the US courts to have the rape charges against him dropped, after new evidence emerged in a documentary that, they argued, showed he was a victim of \"judicial misconduct\" at his original trial. The film showed a former Los Angeles deputy district attorney admitting discussing the case with the trial judge while it was ongoing.In February a Los Angeles judge agreed that \"substantial \u2026 misconduct\" had taken place during the original court proceedings, but said he could not drop the charges so long as Polanski remained a fugitive. Polanski has since appealed against the ruling, insisting he would not voluntarily return to the US even to clear his name.Gailey, now called Samantha Geimer and a 44-year-old mother of three (pictured left), has also spoken in support of his attempt to dismiss the charges, accusing the district attorney's office of resurrecting \"lurid details\" of her assault to distract attention from its own wrongdoing. \"True as they may be, the continued publication of those details causes harm to me.\"She added: \"I have survived, indeed prevailed against, whatever harm Mr Polanski may have caused me as a child.\"", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "Switzerland", "France", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski arrested in Switzerland 31 years after fleeing trial"},{"date": "2009-09-27T19:01:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For 31 years he lived as the world's most celebrated fugitive, feted by his peers in the film industry while on the run from American police after admitting having sex with a child.But, it was revealed today, the past has finally caught up with Roman Polanski. The film director was arrested in Switzerland on Saturday on a decades-old warrant relating to the rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977.The director had travelled to Switzerland to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival, the organisers of which expressed \"great consternation and shock\" at his detention.The 76-year-old director of Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown pleaded guilty to the assault at the time but jumped bail and fled the US the following year to avoid a lengthy jail sentence. For more than three decades he has lived in exile in Paris, refusing to return to the US even when he won an Oscar in 2002 for The Pianist.Zurich police said he was detained at immigration in Zurich on Saturday night at the request of the US justice department and was in custody awaiting extradition.\"I confirm that Mr Polanski has been arrested. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005 in relation to a 1978 warrant,\" said Guido Balmer of the Swiss justice ministry. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody.\" The US will now need to make a formal extradition request, however, and Polanski is likely to challenge his detention in the Swiss courts.Polanski was born in Paris to Polish parents and has French citizenship; France's culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterand said he was \"dumbfounded\" at the arrest, adding that he \"strongly regrets that a new ordeal is being inflicted on someone who has already experienced so many of them\". The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, \"is following the case with great attention and shares the minister's hope that the situation can be quickly resolved\", the minister said.Polanski has a house in Switzerland and spent much of the summer there, according to British writer Robert Harris, who in recent months has been working closely with the director on a film adaptation of his novel The Ghost. Harris told the Guardian he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. \"To my knowledge, Roman in recent years has travelled to Germany, Spain, Italy, Egypt, Greece, Russia, China. So why now, all of a sudden, is an elderly man grabbed off a plane on a Saturday night and stuffed into jail?\"The director was permitted one call to his wife, French actor Emmanuelle Seigner, who left their two young children to travel to Switzerland, Harris said. \"This is a high-profile action designed to send out some sort of message to someone somewhere. No one condones what happened in the 70s, but I think this is pretty appalling.\"A statement from the Swiss Association of Directors called it a \"grotesque judicial farce and a monstrous cultural scandal\", while the country's Association of Film Directors and Script Writers called the move \"a slap in the face for the entire cultural community in Switzerland\".Polanski was 44 and already a twice-Oscar-nominated director in March 1977 when he had sex with Samantha Gailey, a 13-year-old model he had hired for a photoshoot, at Jack Nicholson's house in Los Angeles. He has argued that the sex was consensual, saying the girl was \"not unresponsive\", though Gailey said he drugged her with painkillers and champagne before carrying out a \"very scary\" assault.The director pleaded guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse in a deal with prosecutors that saw them drop charges of rape, drugging and sodomy, which could have carried a life sentence, but fled the country in February 1978 when it became apparent that he was likely to serve time in prison.Polanski's arrest is the latest twist in an extraordinary life that has been marked by violence, tragedy and controversy. His family returned to Poland shortly before the outbreak of the second world war and were forced into the Krakow ghetto with thousands of other Jewish families. The young Polanski escaped from the ghetto in 1943, but his parents were shipped to concentration camps, and his mother was murdered in Auschwitz.Polanski married American actor Sharon Tate in 1968, but the following year, when eight months pregnant with his baby, she and four other people were brutally murdered by members of Charles Manson's \"family\".In recent months, lawyers for Polanski have been seeking through the US courts to have the rape charges against him dropped, after new evidence emerged in a documentary that, they argued, showed he was a victim of \"judicial misconduct\" at his original trial. The film showed a former Los Angeles deputy district attorney admitting discussing the case with the trial judge while it was ongoing.In February a Los Angeles judge agreed that \"substantial \u2026 misconduct\" had taken place during the original court proceedings, but said he could not drop the charges so long as Polanski remained a fugitive. Polanski has since appealed against the ruling, insisting he would not voluntarily return to the US even to clear his name.Gailey, now called Samantha Geimer and a 44-year-old mother of three (pictured left), has also spoken in support of his attempt to dismiss the charges, accusing the district attorney's office of resurrecting \"lurid details\" of her assault to distract attention from its own wrongdoing. \"True as they may be, the continued publication of those details causes harm to me.\"She added: \"I have survived, indeed prevailed against, whatever harm Mr Polanski may have caused me as a child.\"", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "Switzerland", "France", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski arrested in Switzerland 31 years after fleeing trial"},{"date": "2009-07-13T13:21:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "McDonald's is shifting its European headquarters to Geneva, in a snub to the European Union, to benefit from Switzerland's advantageous intellectual property tax laws.The US fast-food chain is joining other foreign companies that have moved their European headquarters to a more favourable tax regime. US corporations that have based themselves in Switzerland include Kraft, Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Yahoo! and Google.McDonald's said its new European head office would be opened in Geneva before the end of the year. It will bring together all senior management, who are spread across four regional centres: London, Paris, Munich and Vienna. The company's European president, Denis Hennequin, who until now has split his time between London and Paris, will be among the executives making the move to Geneva.The four regional centres will remain open and the UK's business will continue to be run from London by Steve Easterbrook.A spokeswoman for McDonald's said the move \"will enable us to conduct the strategic management of key international intellectual property rights, which includes the licensing of those rights to McDonald's franchisees in Europe, from Switzerland\".She said the decision was \"a long time in the planning\" and was first announced internally in August 2008, denying that it was related to new UK tax rules that took effect at the start of the month.The recent changes to the taxation of foreign profits relate to intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trademarks. They have already prompted the publishing and conference group Informa to relocate its tax domicile out of the UK to Switzerland to escape \"double taxation\" \u2013 once abroad and again in Britain.Under the new UK tax rules, the earnings companies receive from their overseas subsidiaries relating to \"real\" economic activity involving trade in goods and services will not be taxed by the UK authorities. But income derived from intellectual property rights does not fall into this category and will be taxed by HM Revenue & Customs, even if it has already been taxed overseas.Other companies have recently moved from Britain to lower tax regimes such as Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The list includes the advertising giant WPP, drugs group Shire, publishing company United Business Media, rented office group Regus, financial groups Henderson, Brit Insurance and Hiscox, and engineering firm Charter.As part of governments' efforts to stem corporate tax avoidance, there are moves under way to force multinational companies to reveal how much tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Tax avoidance", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "Switzerland", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "McDonald's to move European HQ to Geneva"},{"date": "2009-09-27T19:01:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For 31 years he lived as the world's most celebrated fugitive, feted by his peers in the film industry while on the run from American police after admitting having sex with a child.But, it was revealed today, the past has finally caught up with Roman Polanski. The film director was arrested in Switzerland on Saturday on a decades-old warrant relating to the rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977.The director had travelled to Switzerland to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival, the organisers of which expressed \"great consternation and shock\" at his detention.The 76-year-old director of Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown pleaded guilty to the assault at the time but jumped bail and fled the US the following year to avoid a lengthy jail sentence. For more than three decades he has lived in exile in Paris, refusing to return to the US even when he won an Oscar in 2002 for The Pianist.Zurich police said he was detained at immigration in Zurich on Saturday night at the request of the US justice department and was in custody awaiting extradition.\"I confirm that Mr Polanski has been arrested. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005 in relation to a 1978 warrant,\" said Guido Balmer of the Swiss justice ministry. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody.\" The US will now need to make a formal extradition request, however, and Polanski is likely to challenge his detention in the Swiss courts.Polanski was born in Paris to Polish parents and has French citizenship; France's culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterand said he was \"dumbfounded\" at the arrest, adding that he \"strongly regrets that a new ordeal is being inflicted on someone who has already experienced so many of them\". The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, \"is following the case with great attention and shares the minister's hope that the situation can be quickly resolved\", the minister said.Polanski has a house in Switzerland and spent much of the summer there, according to British writer Robert Harris, who in recent months has been working closely with the director on a film adaptation of his novel The Ghost. Harris told the Guardian he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. \"To my knowledge, Roman in recent years has travelled to Germany, Spain, Italy, Egypt, Greece, Russia, China. So why now, all of a sudden, is an elderly man grabbed off a plane on a Saturday night and stuffed into jail?\"The director was permitted one call to his wife, French actor Emmanuelle Seigner, who left their two young children to travel to Switzerland, Harris said. \"This is a high-profile action designed to send out some sort of message to someone somewhere. No one condones what happened in the 70s, but I think this is pretty appalling.\"A statement from the Swiss Association of Directors called it a \"grotesque judicial farce and a monstrous cultural scandal\", while the country's Association of Film Directors and Script Writers called the move \"a slap in the face for the entire cultural community in Switzerland\".Polanski was 44 and already a twice-Oscar-nominated director in March 1977 when he had sex with Samantha Gailey, a 13-year-old model he had hired for a photoshoot, at Jack Nicholson's house in Los Angeles. He has argued that the sex was consensual, saying the girl was \"not unresponsive\", though Gailey said he drugged her with painkillers and champagne before carrying out a \"very scary\" assault.The director pleaded guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse in a deal with prosecutors that saw them drop charges of rape, drugging and sodomy, which could have carried a life sentence, but fled the country in February 1978 when it became apparent that he was likely to serve time in prison.Polanski's arrest is the latest twist in an extraordinary life that has been marked by violence, tragedy and controversy. His family returned to Poland shortly before the outbreak of the second world war and were forced into the Krakow ghetto with thousands of other Jewish families. The young Polanski escaped from the ghetto in 1943, but his parents were shipped to concentration camps, and his mother was murdered in Auschwitz.Polanski married American actor Sharon Tate in 1968, but the following year, when eight months pregnant with his baby, she and four other people were brutally murdered by members of Charles Manson's \"family\".In recent months, lawyers for Polanski have been seeking through the US courts to have the rape charges against him dropped, after new evidence emerged in a documentary that, they argued, showed he was a victim of \"judicial misconduct\" at his original trial. The film showed a former Los Angeles deputy district attorney admitting discussing the case with the trial judge while it was ongoing.In February a Los Angeles judge agreed that \"substantial \u2026 misconduct\" had taken place during the original court proceedings, but said he could not drop the charges so long as Polanski remained a fugitive. Polanski has since appealed against the ruling, insisting he would not voluntarily return to the US even to clear his name.Gailey, now called Samantha Geimer and a 44-year-old mother of three (pictured left), has also spoken in support of his attempt to dismiss the charges, accusing the district attorney's office of resurrecting \"lurid details\" of her assault to distract attention from its own wrongdoing. \"True as they may be, the continued publication of those details causes harm to me.\"She added: \"I have survived, indeed prevailed against, whatever harm Mr Polanski may have caused me as a child.\"", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "Switzerland", "France", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski arrested in Switzerland 31 years after fleeing trial"},{"date": "2009-07-13T13:21:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "McDonald's is shifting its European headquarters to Geneva, in a snub to the European Union, to benefit from Switzerland's advantageous intellectual property tax laws.The US fast-food chain is joining other foreign companies that have moved their European headquarters to a more favourable tax regime. US corporations that have based themselves in Switzerland include Kraft, Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Yahoo! and Google.McDonald's said its new European head office would be opened in Geneva before the end of the year. It will bring together all senior management, who are spread across four regional centres: London, Paris, Munich and Vienna. The company's European president, Denis Hennequin, who until now has split his time between London and Paris, will be among the executives making the move to Geneva.The four regional centres will remain open and the UK's business will continue to be run from London by Steve Easterbrook.A spokeswoman for McDonald's said the move \"will enable us to conduct the strategic management of key international intellectual property rights, which includes the licensing of those rights to McDonald's franchisees in Europe, from Switzerland\".She said the decision was \"a long time in the planning\" and was first announced internally in August 2008, denying that it was related to new UK tax rules that took effect at the start of the month.The recent changes to the taxation of foreign profits relate to intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trademarks. They have already prompted the publishing and conference group Informa to relocate its tax domicile out of the UK to Switzerland to escape \"double taxation\" \u2013 once abroad and again in Britain.Under the new UK tax rules, the earnings companies receive from their overseas subsidiaries relating to \"real\" economic activity involving trade in goods and services will not be taxed by the UK authorities. But income derived from intellectual property rights does not fall into this category and will be taxed by HM Revenue & Customs, even if it has already been taxed overseas.Other companies have recently moved from Britain to lower tax regimes such as Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The list includes the advertising giant WPP, drugs group Shire, publishing company United Business Media, rented office group Regus, financial groups Henderson, Brit Insurance and Hiscox, and engineering firm Charter.As part of governments' efforts to stem corporate tax avoidance, there are moves under way to force multinational companies to reveal how much tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Tax avoidance", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "Switzerland", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "McDonald's to move European HQ to Geneva"},{"date": "2009-07-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Pure Mountains offers biking holidays in the stunning Parque Natural de Sierra Nevada. The riding is fantastic with loads of swooping single tracks past flower-filled meadows, the scent of wild herbs in the air. The guiding is excellent, with well thought out routes tailored to the group's abilities. Tim and Jenny's patience is second to none and thanks to them I can now do switch backs! Not forgetting the luxury accommodation - their remote cortijo sits at 1,700m offering stunning views of the villages and valleys of the Alpujarras - great, hearty meals, Land Rover support, picnics en route and an amazing location. The combination of biking, accommodation, food and guiding is the best I have come across. And, at the end of the day, their sunny terrace is the perfect place for a much-deserved beer. Tim and Jenny look after you so well in every aspect of the holiday. \u2022 puremountains.com. Andrew56Le Refuge, ChamonixA little-known haven just outside the centre of town in a protected national park. Once a farmhouse and then a French ambassador's hideaway, it is now a chic chalet. The deck and floor-to-ceiling windows offer a great view of the Mont Blanc massif. \u2022 From \u00a31,450 per week for up to 6 people. 07786 983789, le-refuge.co.uk.JamesWallmanActivity holidays, Ch\u00e2telIn a wonderful resort called Ch\u00e2tel, high up in the French Alps, we went on guided walks, did some mountain biking on scary downhill courses, got soaked whitewater rafting and still had time to relax and do some wine tasting. Our hosts, Mountain Air Holidays, also cooked wonderful meals.Chalets sleep from four to 13 from \u20ac495pp per week, mountainairholidays.co.uk.AdamC33La Barme, CogneYou don't need a car to get deep into the Alps during summer. Getting to Aosta from any of the airports in northern Italy is a doddle on the train (trenitalia.com), and there's a great bus service that will take you up to Cogne (savda.it/orari_tariffe.htm). From there, walk or get the local bus to Valnontey for a great base for spectacular single or multi-day walks, stay at La Barme (hotellabarme.com) for hearty, traditional evening meals. The guide book Walking in Italy's Gran Paradiso by Gillian Price (Cicerone) has loads of great walks. CityGirlCountryLassColletts Mountain Holidays, the DolomitesColletts specialises in activity holidays to the Dolomites, operating in Arabba near Ortisei and also in Pedraces. You can go in summer for walking (and now in winter for skiing, snowshoeing and other activities, too). The frontline staff are mostly young and enthusiastic and nothing is too much trouble. We arrived at 2.30am after a horrendous journey over the mountain passes, and there was a member of staff to greet us with a platter of food, hot drinks and a smile. This is a chalet holiday where you can dip in and out of activities as you like. \u2022 01763 289660, colletts.co.uk.anniescotlandSolis Cambrian Hotel, AdelbodenThis glorious spa hotel in the heart of the Swiss Alps was almost empty when we were there in early June, meaning we had the entire spa - featuring an infinity pool falling away into a valley panorama with snow-capped mountains in the distance - all to ourselves. We had booked a room without a view but were upgraded to one with a breathtaking view. Considering it's unlikely to be fully booked in the summer, I'd recommend doing the same - and paying for an upgrade if it's not provided. Not exorbitantly priced - our bill came to just over \u00a3200 for the night, including decent supper and bar tab. One other tip: while the map makes it look like the journey from Lake Geneva is a jaunt, it is actually up and down some perilous mountains - the motorway via Berne is far quicker.\u2022 0041 33 673 8383, solisadelboden.com. From CHF225 (\u00a3112) per night for two people.DamianP", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Travel", "Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Italy", "Spain holidays", "Switzerland holidays"], "title": "Readers' tips ... chalets in summer"},{"date": "2009-09-27T19:01:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For 31 years he lived as the world's most celebrated fugitive, feted by his peers in the film industry while on the run from American police after admitting having sex with a child.But, it was revealed today, the past has finally caught up with Roman Polanski. The film director was arrested in Switzerland on Saturday on a decades-old warrant relating to the rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977.The director had travelled to Switzerland to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival, the organisers of which expressed \"great consternation and shock\" at his detention.The 76-year-old director of Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown pleaded guilty to the assault at the time but jumped bail and fled the US the following year to avoid a lengthy jail sentence. For more than three decades he has lived in exile in Paris, refusing to return to the US even when he won an Oscar in 2002 for The Pianist.Zurich police said he was detained at immigration in Zurich on Saturday night at the request of the US justice department and was in custody awaiting extradition.\"I confirm that Mr Polanski has been arrested. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005 in relation to a 1978 warrant,\" said Guido Balmer of the Swiss justice ministry. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody.\" The US will now need to make a formal extradition request, however, and Polanski is likely to challenge his detention in the Swiss courts.Polanski was born in Paris to Polish parents and has French citizenship; France's culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterand said he was \"dumbfounded\" at the arrest, adding that he \"strongly regrets that a new ordeal is being inflicted on someone who has already experienced so many of them\". The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, \"is following the case with great attention and shares the minister's hope that the situation can be quickly resolved\", the minister said.Polanski has a house in Switzerland and spent much of the summer there, according to British writer Robert Harris, who in recent months has been working closely with the director on a film adaptation of his novel The Ghost. Harris told the Guardian he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. \"To my knowledge, Roman in recent years has travelled to Germany, Spain, Italy, Egypt, Greece, Russia, China. So why now, all of a sudden, is an elderly man grabbed off a plane on a Saturday night and stuffed into jail?\"The director was permitted one call to his wife, French actor Emmanuelle Seigner, who left their two young children to travel to Switzerland, Harris said. \"This is a high-profile action designed to send out some sort of message to someone somewhere. No one condones what happened in the 70s, but I think this is pretty appalling.\"A statement from the Swiss Association of Directors called it a \"grotesque judicial farce and a monstrous cultural scandal\", while the country's Association of Film Directors and Script Writers called the move \"a slap in the face for the entire cultural community in Switzerland\".Polanski was 44 and already a twice-Oscar-nominated director in March 1977 when he had sex with Samantha Gailey, a 13-year-old model he had hired for a photoshoot, at Jack Nicholson's house in Los Angeles. He has argued that the sex was consensual, saying the girl was \"not unresponsive\", though Gailey said he drugged her with painkillers and champagne before carrying out a \"very scary\" assault.The director pleaded guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse in a deal with prosecutors that saw them drop charges of rape, drugging and sodomy, which could have carried a life sentence, but fled the country in February 1978 when it became apparent that he was likely to serve time in prison.Polanski's arrest is the latest twist in an extraordinary life that has been marked by violence, tragedy and controversy. His family returned to Poland shortly before the outbreak of the second world war and were forced into the Krakow ghetto with thousands of other Jewish families. The young Polanski escaped from the ghetto in 1943, but his parents were shipped to concentration camps, and his mother was murdered in Auschwitz.Polanski married American actor Sharon Tate in 1968, but the following year, when eight months pregnant with his baby, she and four other people were brutally murdered by members of Charles Manson's \"family\".In recent months, lawyers for Polanski have been seeking through the US courts to have the rape charges against him dropped, after new evidence emerged in a documentary that, they argued, showed he was a victim of \"judicial misconduct\" at his original trial. The film showed a former Los Angeles deputy district attorney admitting discussing the case with the trial judge while it was ongoing.In February a Los Angeles judge agreed that \"substantial \u2026 misconduct\" had taken place during the original court proceedings, but said he could not drop the charges so long as Polanski remained a fugitive. Polanski has since appealed against the ruling, insisting he would not voluntarily return to the US even to clear his name.Gailey, now called Samantha Geimer and a 44-year-old mother of three (pictured left), has also spoken in support of his attempt to dismiss the charges, accusing the district attorney's office of resurrecting \"lurid details\" of her assault to distract attention from its own wrongdoing. \"True as they may be, the continued publication of those details causes harm to me.\"She added: \"I have survived, indeed prevailed against, whatever harm Mr Polanski may have caused me as a child.\"", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "Switzerland", "France", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski arrested in Switzerland 31 years after fleeing trial"},{"date": "2009-07-13T13:21:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "McDonald's is shifting its European headquarters to Geneva, in a snub to the European Union, to benefit from Switzerland's advantageous intellectual property tax laws.The US fast-food chain is joining other foreign companies that have moved their European headquarters to a more favourable tax regime. US corporations that have based themselves in Switzerland include Kraft, Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Yahoo! and Google.McDonald's said its new European head office would be opened in Geneva before the end of the year. It will bring together all senior management, who are spread across four regional centres: London, Paris, Munich and Vienna. The company's European president, Denis Hennequin, who until now has split his time between London and Paris, will be among the executives making the move to Geneva.The four regional centres will remain open and the UK's business will continue to be run from London by Steve Easterbrook.A spokeswoman for McDonald's said the move \"will enable us to conduct the strategic management of key international intellectual property rights, which includes the licensing of those rights to McDonald's franchisees in Europe, from Switzerland\".She said the decision was \"a long time in the planning\" and was first announced internally in August 2008, denying that it was related to new UK tax rules that took effect at the start of the month.The recent changes to the taxation of foreign profits relate to intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trademarks. They have already prompted the publishing and conference group Informa to relocate its tax domicile out of the UK to Switzerland to escape \"double taxation\" \u2013 once abroad and again in Britain.Under the new UK tax rules, the earnings companies receive from their overseas subsidiaries relating to \"real\" economic activity involving trade in goods and services will not be taxed by the UK authorities. But income derived from intellectual property rights does not fall into this category and will be taxed by HM Revenue & Customs, even if it has already been taxed overseas.Other companies have recently moved from Britain to lower tax regimes such as Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The list includes the advertising giant WPP, drugs group Shire, publishing company United Business Media, rented office group Regus, financial groups Henderson, Brit Insurance and Hiscox, and engineering firm Charter.As part of governments' efforts to stem corporate tax avoidance, there are moves under way to force multinational companies to reveal how much tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Tax avoidance", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "Switzerland", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "McDonald's to move European HQ to Geneva"},{"date": "2009-07-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Pure Mountains offers biking holidays in the stunning Parque Natural de Sierra Nevada. The riding is fantastic with loads of swooping single tracks past flower-filled meadows, the scent of wild herbs in the air. The guiding is excellent, with well thought out routes tailored to the group's abilities. Tim and Jenny's patience is second to none and thanks to them I can now do switch backs! Not forgetting the luxury accommodation - their remote cortijo sits at 1,700m offering stunning views of the villages and valleys of the Alpujarras - great, hearty meals, Land Rover support, picnics en route and an amazing location. The combination of biking, accommodation, food and guiding is the best I have come across. And, at the end of the day, their sunny terrace is the perfect place for a much-deserved beer. Tim and Jenny look after you so well in every aspect of the holiday. \u2022 puremountains.com. Andrew56Le Refuge, ChamonixA little-known haven just outside the centre of town in a protected national park. Once a farmhouse and then a French ambassador's hideaway, it is now a chic chalet. The deck and floor-to-ceiling windows offer a great view of the Mont Blanc massif. \u2022 From \u00a31,450 per week for up to 6 people. 07786 983789, le-refuge.co.uk.JamesWallmanActivity holidays, Ch\u00e2telIn a wonderful resort called Ch\u00e2tel, high up in the French Alps, we went on guided walks, did some mountain biking on scary downhill courses, got soaked whitewater rafting and still had time to relax and do some wine tasting. Our hosts, Mountain Air Holidays, also cooked wonderful meals.Chalets sleep from four to 13 from \u20ac495pp per week, mountainairholidays.co.uk.AdamC33La Barme, CogneYou don't need a car to get deep into the Alps during summer. Getting to Aosta from any of the airports in northern Italy is a doddle on the train (trenitalia.com), and there's a great bus service that will take you up to Cogne (savda.it/orari_tariffe.htm). From there, walk or get the local bus to Valnontey for a great base for spectacular single or multi-day walks, stay at La Barme (hotellabarme.com) for hearty, traditional evening meals. The guide book Walking in Italy's Gran Paradiso by Gillian Price (Cicerone) has loads of great walks. CityGirlCountryLassColletts Mountain Holidays, the DolomitesColletts specialises in activity holidays to the Dolomites, operating in Arabba near Ortisei and also in Pedraces. You can go in summer for walking (and now in winter for skiing, snowshoeing and other activities, too). The frontline staff are mostly young and enthusiastic and nothing is too much trouble. We arrived at 2.30am after a horrendous journey over the mountain passes, and there was a member of staff to greet us with a platter of food, hot drinks and a smile. This is a chalet holiday where you can dip in and out of activities as you like. \u2022 01763 289660, colletts.co.uk.anniescotlandSolis Cambrian Hotel, AdelbodenThis glorious spa hotel in the heart of the Swiss Alps was almost empty when we were there in early June, meaning we had the entire spa - featuring an infinity pool falling away into a valley panorama with snow-capped mountains in the distance - all to ourselves. We had booked a room without a view but were upgraded to one with a breathtaking view. Considering it's unlikely to be fully booked in the summer, I'd recommend doing the same - and paying for an upgrade if it's not provided. Not exorbitantly priced - our bill came to just over \u00a3200 for the night, including decent supper and bar tab. One other tip: while the map makes it look like the journey from Lake Geneva is a jaunt, it is actually up and down some perilous mountains - the motorway via Berne is far quicker.\u2022 0041 33 673 8383, solisadelboden.com. From CHF225 (\u00a3112) per night for two people.DamianP", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Travel", "Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Italy", "Spain holidays", "Switzerland holidays"], "title": "Readers' tips ... chalets in summer"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For a fugitive from US justice, Roman Polanski seems not to have given as much thought as he might have done to the consequences of travelling outside his adopted home, France. There, his French citizenship ensures him protection \u2013 France does not allow its own citizens to be extradited to the US.Presumably, though, he felt safe going to Switzerland, as he has long had a\u00a0chalet in the luxury ski resort of Gstaad and, according to one of his lawyers, travelled widely in continental Europe. \u00a0Los Angeles county authorities have had a warrant out for Polanski's arrest since he fled the US in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting having sex with a 13-year-old girl. But they have only sought his arrest around the world since 2005, when they issued an international arrest warrant.Their renewed interest may have been sparked off by a well-publicised libel action he brought that year in the high court in London against Vanity Fair, over an article about his earlier private life. He testified by video link for fear of being arrested if he set foot in Britain, with its easy extradition arrangements with the US.Since then, the LA county district attorney's office has\u00a0instigated moves to have him arrested at least twice, after learning that\u00a0he was preparing to travel to a country with an extradition treaty with the US, but in the end he decided not to travel. This time the authorities got lucky, spotting that he was due to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival. Unlike his private holidays in Switzerland, this trip was publicised, ensuring plenty of warning to make sure a valid arrest request was in place.The district attorney's office sent a provisional arrest warrant to the US Justice Department, which presented it to the Swiss authorities last week. Polanski was arrested at Zurich airport and taken into \"provisional custody\" in a Zurich jail.Previous cases indicate that challenging his extradition is likely to take many months. Suspects usually remain in custody throughout the process, although bail is not ruled out. The US state department has 60 days to file a request for Polanski's transfer to LA. The request first goes to the Swiss ministry of justice and appeals are possible both against the arrest warrant and against any decision to extradite. Appeals would go to the Swiss federal penal court of justice, and any rulings there can be appealed further to the federal court of justice.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "France", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "How did the law catch up with Roman Polanski?"},{"date": "2009-09-27T19:01:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For 31 years he lived as the world's most celebrated fugitive, feted by his peers in the film industry while on the run from American police after admitting having sex with a child.But, it was revealed today, the past has finally caught up with Roman Polanski. The film director was arrested in Switzerland on Saturday on a decades-old warrant relating to the rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977.The director had travelled to Switzerland to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival, the organisers of which expressed \"great consternation and shock\" at his detention.The 76-year-old director of Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown pleaded guilty to the assault at the time but jumped bail and fled the US the following year to avoid a lengthy jail sentence. For more than three decades he has lived in exile in Paris, refusing to return to the US even when he won an Oscar in 2002 for The Pianist.Zurich police said he was detained at immigration in Zurich on Saturday night at the request of the US justice department and was in custody awaiting extradition.\"I confirm that Mr Polanski has been arrested. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005 in relation to a 1978 warrant,\" said Guido Balmer of the Swiss justice ministry. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody.\" The US will now need to make a formal extradition request, however, and Polanski is likely to challenge his detention in the Swiss courts.Polanski was born in Paris to Polish parents and has French citizenship; France's culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterand said he was \"dumbfounded\" at the arrest, adding that he \"strongly regrets that a new ordeal is being inflicted on someone who has already experienced so many of them\". The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, \"is following the case with great attention and shares the minister's hope that the situation can be quickly resolved\", the minister said.Polanski has a house in Switzerland and spent much of the summer there, according to British writer Robert Harris, who in recent months has been working closely with the director on a film adaptation of his novel The Ghost. Harris told the Guardian he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. \"To my knowledge, Roman in recent years has travelled to Germany, Spain, Italy, Egypt, Greece, Russia, China. So why now, all of a sudden, is an elderly man grabbed off a plane on a Saturday night and stuffed into jail?\"The director was permitted one call to his wife, French actor Emmanuelle Seigner, who left their two young children to travel to Switzerland, Harris said. \"This is a high-profile action designed to send out some sort of message to someone somewhere. No one condones what happened in the 70s, but I think this is pretty appalling.\"A statement from the Swiss Association of Directors called it a \"grotesque judicial farce and a monstrous cultural scandal\", while the country's Association of Film Directors and Script Writers called the move \"a slap in the face for the entire cultural community in Switzerland\".Polanski was 44 and already a twice-Oscar-nominated director in March 1977 when he had sex with Samantha Gailey, a 13-year-old model he had hired for a photoshoot, at Jack Nicholson's house in Los Angeles. He has argued that the sex was consensual, saying the girl was \"not unresponsive\", though Gailey said he drugged her with painkillers and champagne before carrying out a \"very scary\" assault.The director pleaded guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse in a deal with prosecutors that saw them drop charges of rape, drugging and sodomy, which could have carried a life sentence, but fled the country in February 1978 when it became apparent that he was likely to serve time in prison.Polanski's arrest is the latest twist in an extraordinary life that has been marked by violence, tragedy and controversy. His family returned to Poland shortly before the outbreak of the second world war and were forced into the Krakow ghetto with thousands of other Jewish families. The young Polanski escaped from the ghetto in 1943, but his parents were shipped to concentration camps, and his mother was murdered in Auschwitz.Polanski married American actor Sharon Tate in 1968, but the following year, when eight months pregnant with his baby, she and four other people were brutally murdered by members of Charles Manson's \"family\".In recent months, lawyers for Polanski have been seeking through the US courts to have the rape charges against him dropped, after new evidence emerged in a documentary that, they argued, showed he was a victim of \"judicial misconduct\" at his original trial. The film showed a former Los Angeles deputy district attorney admitting discussing the case with the trial judge while it was ongoing.In February a Los Angeles judge agreed that \"substantial \u2026 misconduct\" had taken place during the original court proceedings, but said he could not drop the charges so long as Polanski remained a fugitive. Polanski has since appealed against the ruling, insisting he would not voluntarily return to the US even to clear his name.Gailey, now called Samantha Geimer and a 44-year-old mother of three (pictured left), has also spoken in support of his attempt to dismiss the charges, accusing the district attorney's office of resurrecting \"lurid details\" of her assault to distract attention from its own wrongdoing. \"True as they may be, the continued publication of those details causes harm to me.\"She added: \"I have survived, indeed prevailed against, whatever harm Mr Polanski may have caused me as a child.\"", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "Switzerland", "France", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski arrested in Switzerland 31 years after fleeing trial"},{"date": "2009-07-13T13:21:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "McDonald's is shifting its European headquarters to Geneva, in a snub to the European Union, to benefit from Switzerland's advantageous intellectual property tax laws.The US fast-food chain is joining other foreign companies that have moved their European headquarters to a more favourable tax regime. US corporations that have based themselves in Switzerland include Kraft, Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Yahoo! and Google.McDonald's said its new European head office would be opened in Geneva before the end of the year. It will bring together all senior management, who are spread across four regional centres: London, Paris, Munich and Vienna. The company's European president, Denis Hennequin, who until now has split his time between London and Paris, will be among the executives making the move to Geneva.The four regional centres will remain open and the UK's business will continue to be run from London by Steve Easterbrook.A spokeswoman for McDonald's said the move \"will enable us to conduct the strategic management of key international intellectual property rights, which includes the licensing of those rights to McDonald's franchisees in Europe, from Switzerland\".She said the decision was \"a long time in the planning\" and was first announced internally in August 2008, denying that it was related to new UK tax rules that took effect at the start of the month.The recent changes to the taxation of foreign profits relate to intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trademarks. They have already prompted the publishing and conference group Informa to relocate its tax domicile out of the UK to Switzerland to escape \"double taxation\" \u2013 once abroad and again in Britain.Under the new UK tax rules, the earnings companies receive from their overseas subsidiaries relating to \"real\" economic activity involving trade in goods and services will not be taxed by the UK authorities. But income derived from intellectual property rights does not fall into this category and will be taxed by HM Revenue & Customs, even if it has already been taxed overseas.Other companies have recently moved from Britain to lower tax regimes such as Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The list includes the advertising giant WPP, drugs group Shire, publishing company United Business Media, rented office group Regus, financial groups Henderson, Brit Insurance and Hiscox, and engineering firm Charter.As part of governments' efforts to stem corporate tax avoidance, there are moves under way to force multinational companies to reveal how much tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Tax avoidance", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "Switzerland", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "McDonald's to move European HQ to Geneva"},{"date": "2009-07-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Pure Mountains offers biking holidays in the stunning Parque Natural de Sierra Nevada. The riding is fantastic with loads of swooping single tracks past flower-filled meadows, the scent of wild herbs in the air. The guiding is excellent, with well thought out routes tailored to the group's abilities. Tim and Jenny's patience is second to none and thanks to them I can now do switch backs! Not forgetting the luxury accommodation - their remote cortijo sits at 1,700m offering stunning views of the villages and valleys of the Alpujarras - great, hearty meals, Land Rover support, picnics en route and an amazing location. The combination of biking, accommodation, food and guiding is the best I have come across. And, at the end of the day, their sunny terrace is the perfect place for a much-deserved beer. Tim and Jenny look after you so well in every aspect of the holiday. \u2022 puremountains.com. Andrew56Le Refuge, ChamonixA little-known haven just outside the centre of town in a protected national park. Once a farmhouse and then a French ambassador's hideaway, it is now a chic chalet. The deck and floor-to-ceiling windows offer a great view of the Mont Blanc massif. \u2022 From \u00a31,450 per week for up to 6 people. 07786 983789, le-refuge.co.uk.JamesWallmanActivity holidays, Ch\u00e2telIn a wonderful resort called Ch\u00e2tel, high up in the French Alps, we went on guided walks, did some mountain biking on scary downhill courses, got soaked whitewater rafting and still had time to relax and do some wine tasting. Our hosts, Mountain Air Holidays, also cooked wonderful meals.Chalets sleep from four to 13 from \u20ac495pp per week, mountainairholidays.co.uk.AdamC33La Barme, CogneYou don't need a car to get deep into the Alps during summer. Getting to Aosta from any of the airports in northern Italy is a doddle on the train (trenitalia.com), and there's a great bus service that will take you up to Cogne (savda.it/orari_tariffe.htm). From there, walk or get the local bus to Valnontey for a great base for spectacular single or multi-day walks, stay at La Barme (hotellabarme.com) for hearty, traditional evening meals. The guide book Walking in Italy's Gran Paradiso by Gillian Price (Cicerone) has loads of great walks. CityGirlCountryLassColletts Mountain Holidays, the DolomitesColletts specialises in activity holidays to the Dolomites, operating in Arabba near Ortisei and also in Pedraces. You can go in summer for walking (and now in winter for skiing, snowshoeing and other activities, too). The frontline staff are mostly young and enthusiastic and nothing is too much trouble. We arrived at 2.30am after a horrendous journey over the mountain passes, and there was a member of staff to greet us with a platter of food, hot drinks and a smile. This is a chalet holiday where you can dip in and out of activities as you like. \u2022 01763 289660, colletts.co.uk.anniescotlandSolis Cambrian Hotel, AdelbodenThis glorious spa hotel in the heart of the Swiss Alps was almost empty when we were there in early June, meaning we had the entire spa - featuring an infinity pool falling away into a valley panorama with snow-capped mountains in the distance - all to ourselves. We had booked a room without a view but were upgraded to one with a breathtaking view. Considering it's unlikely to be fully booked in the summer, I'd recommend doing the same - and paying for an upgrade if it's not provided. Not exorbitantly priced - our bill came to just over \u00a3200 for the night, including decent supper and bar tab. One other tip: while the map makes it look like the journey from Lake Geneva is a jaunt, it is actually up and down some perilous mountains - the motorway via Berne is far quicker.\u2022 0041 33 673 8383, solisadelboden.com. From CHF225 (\u00a3112) per night for two people.DamianP", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Travel", "Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Italy", "Spain holidays", "Switzerland holidays"], "title": "Readers' tips ... chalets in summer"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For a fugitive from US justice, Roman Polanski seems not to have given as much thought as he might have done to the consequences of travelling outside his adopted home, France. There, his French citizenship ensures him protection \u2013 France does not allow its own citizens to be extradited to the US.Presumably, though, he felt safe going to Switzerland, as he has long had a\u00a0chalet in the luxury ski resort of Gstaad and, according to one of his lawyers, travelled widely in continental Europe. \u00a0Los Angeles county authorities have had a warrant out for Polanski's arrest since he fled the US in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting having sex with a 13-year-old girl. But they have only sought his arrest around the world since 2005, when they issued an international arrest warrant.Their renewed interest may have been sparked off by a well-publicised libel action he brought that year in the high court in London against Vanity Fair, over an article about his earlier private life. He testified by video link for fear of being arrested if he set foot in Britain, with its easy extradition arrangements with the US.Since then, the LA county district attorney's office has\u00a0instigated moves to have him arrested at least twice, after learning that\u00a0he was preparing to travel to a country with an extradition treaty with the US, but in the end he decided not to travel. This time the authorities got lucky, spotting that he was due to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival. Unlike his private holidays in Switzerland, this trip was publicised, ensuring plenty of warning to make sure a valid arrest request was in place.The district attorney's office sent a provisional arrest warrant to the US Justice Department, which presented it to the Swiss authorities last week. Polanski was arrested at Zurich airport and taken into \"provisional custody\" in a Zurich jail.Previous cases indicate that challenging his extradition is likely to take many months. Suspects usually remain in custody throughout the process, although bail is not ruled out. The US state department has 60 days to file a request for Polanski's transfer to LA. The request first goes to the Swiss ministry of justice and appeals are possible both against the arrest warrant and against any decision to extradite. Appeals would go to the Swiss federal penal court of justice, and any rulings there can be appealed further to the federal court of justice.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "France", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "How did the law catch up with Roman Polanski?"},{"date": "2009-09-28T11:23:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For fleeing the US after pleading guilty to sex with a 13-year-old girl in 1977. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005; Swiss authorities arrested him on Saturday at Zurich airport.In Swiss custody. The country's justice ministry says he has been put in \"provisional detention\".When Polanski travelled to Switzerland to collect a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival at the weekend, it was far from the first time the director had set foot on Swiss soil.He has openly had a house in Switzerland for \"the last 12, 15 years\", according to his agent, Jeff Berg. The property is a chalet in Gstaad, a ski village in the German-speaking section of the canton of Bern in south-west Switzerland.The Los Angeles county district attorney's office planned the arrest after learning last week that Polanski had plans to travel to Zurich for the film festival, said Sandi Gibbons, a county spokeswoman. Prosecutors sent a provisional arrest warrant to the US justice department, which presented it to Swiss authorities.At least twice before, the district attorney's office has received reports Polanski was going to visit countries with extradition treaties with the US and prepared paperwork for his arrest, according to Gibbons. \"But in the end he apparently found out about it and didn't go,\" she said.Yesterday, the Swiss justice ministry insisted politics played no role. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody,\" said Guido Balmer, a spokesman for the ministry. \"There is no link with any other issues in question.\"Balmer said Swiss police managed to arrest Polanski on this occasion because they knew when and where he would arrive. Switzerland does not perform regular passport checks on arrivals from 24 other European countries. Balmer said many foreigners entered Switzerland without being registered.Many rumours are circulating, but one theory is that the Swiss agreed to arrest Polanski as part of a quid pro quo deal relating to UBS, the Swiss financial services firm. UBS admitted in February that it helped thousands of American citizens evade paying taxes and is still in negotiations about handing over details of secret accounts to the IRS.Yesterday, the news wire service AP accidentally published a memo between reporters in which one journalist hypothesised that the Swiss are \"under intense pressure over UBS and want to throw the US a bone\".Polanski's friend, the writer Robert Harris, has told the Guardian that he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. In Paris, the French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, called the arrest a \"bit sinister\".The US has 60 days to produce a formal extradition request. \"If he agrees with an extradition he could be sent to the US in the next days,\" said Balmer. If Polanski decides to fight his extradition the court process could be quite lengthy, Balmer told the Los Angeles Times.The Swiss justice ministry today would not rule out some sort of bail on strict conditions, including not fleeing Switzerland. A spokesman said such an arrangement was \"not entirely excluded\" under Swiss law.France and Poland have urged Switzerland to free the 76-year-old director on bail and pressed US officials all the way up to the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, on the case.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Switzerland", "France", "Poland", "US news", "Film", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Q&A: Roman Polanski arrest"},{"date": "2009-09-27T19:01:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For 31 years he lived as the world's most celebrated fugitive, feted by his peers in the film industry while on the run from American police after admitting having sex with a child.But, it was revealed today, the past has finally caught up with Roman Polanski. The film director was arrested in Switzerland on Saturday on a decades-old warrant relating to the rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977.The director had travelled to Switzerland to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival, the organisers of which expressed \"great consternation and shock\" at his detention.The 76-year-old director of Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown pleaded guilty to the assault at the time but jumped bail and fled the US the following year to avoid a lengthy jail sentence. For more than three decades he has lived in exile in Paris, refusing to return to the US even when he won an Oscar in 2002 for The Pianist.Zurich police said he was detained at immigration in Zurich on Saturday night at the request of the US justice department and was in custody awaiting extradition.\"I confirm that Mr Polanski has been arrested. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005 in relation to a 1978 warrant,\" said Guido Balmer of the Swiss justice ministry. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody.\" The US will now need to make a formal extradition request, however, and Polanski is likely to challenge his detention in the Swiss courts.Polanski was born in Paris to Polish parents and has French citizenship; France's culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterand said he was \"dumbfounded\" at the arrest, adding that he \"strongly regrets that a new ordeal is being inflicted on someone who has already experienced so many of them\". The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, \"is following the case with great attention and shares the minister's hope that the situation can be quickly resolved\", the minister said.Polanski has a house in Switzerland and spent much of the summer there, according to British writer Robert Harris, who in recent months has been working closely with the director on a film adaptation of his novel The Ghost. Harris told the Guardian he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. \"To my knowledge, Roman in recent years has travelled to Germany, Spain, Italy, Egypt, Greece, Russia, China. So why now, all of a sudden, is an elderly man grabbed off a plane on a Saturday night and stuffed into jail?\"The director was permitted one call to his wife, French actor Emmanuelle Seigner, who left their two young children to travel to Switzerland, Harris said. \"This is a high-profile action designed to send out some sort of message to someone somewhere. No one condones what happened in the 70s, but I think this is pretty appalling.\"A statement from the Swiss Association of Directors called it a \"grotesque judicial farce and a monstrous cultural scandal\", while the country's Association of Film Directors and Script Writers called the move \"a slap in the face for the entire cultural community in Switzerland\".Polanski was 44 and already a twice-Oscar-nominated director in March 1977 when he had sex with Samantha Gailey, a 13-year-old model he had hired for a photoshoot, at Jack Nicholson's house in Los Angeles. He has argued that the sex was consensual, saying the girl was \"not unresponsive\", though Gailey said he drugged her with painkillers and champagne before carrying out a \"very scary\" assault.The director pleaded guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse in a deal with prosecutors that saw them drop charges of rape, drugging and sodomy, which could have carried a life sentence, but fled the country in February 1978 when it became apparent that he was likely to serve time in prison.Polanski's arrest is the latest twist in an extraordinary life that has been marked by violence, tragedy and controversy. His family returned to Poland shortly before the outbreak of the second world war and were forced into the Krakow ghetto with thousands of other Jewish families. The young Polanski escaped from the ghetto in 1943, but his parents were shipped to concentration camps, and his mother was murdered in Auschwitz.Polanski married American actor Sharon Tate in 1968, but the following year, when eight months pregnant with his baby, she and four other people were brutally murdered by members of Charles Manson's \"family\".In recent months, lawyers for Polanski have been seeking through the US courts to have the rape charges against him dropped, after new evidence emerged in a documentary that, they argued, showed he was a victim of \"judicial misconduct\" at his original trial. The film showed a former Los Angeles deputy district attorney admitting discussing the case with the trial judge while it was ongoing.In February a Los Angeles judge agreed that \"substantial \u2026 misconduct\" had taken place during the original court proceedings, but said he could not drop the charges so long as Polanski remained a fugitive. Polanski has since appealed against the ruling, insisting he would not voluntarily return to the US even to clear his name.Gailey, now called Samantha Geimer and a 44-year-old mother of three (pictured left), has also spoken in support of his attempt to dismiss the charges, accusing the district attorney's office of resurrecting \"lurid details\" of her assault to distract attention from its own wrongdoing. \"True as they may be, the continued publication of those details causes harm to me.\"She added: \"I have survived, indeed prevailed against, whatever harm Mr Polanski may have caused me as a child.\"", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "Switzerland", "France", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski arrested in Switzerland 31 years after fleeing trial"},{"date": "2009-07-13T13:21:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "McDonald's is shifting its European headquarters to Geneva, in a snub to the European Union, to benefit from Switzerland's advantageous intellectual property tax laws.The US fast-food chain is joining other foreign companies that have moved their European headquarters to a more favourable tax regime. US corporations that have based themselves in Switzerland include Kraft, Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Yahoo! and Google.McDonald's said its new European head office would be opened in Geneva before the end of the year. It will bring together all senior management, who are spread across four regional centres: London, Paris, Munich and Vienna. The company's European president, Denis Hennequin, who until now has split his time between London and Paris, will be among the executives making the move to Geneva.The four regional centres will remain open and the UK's business will continue to be run from London by Steve Easterbrook.A spokeswoman for McDonald's said the move \"will enable us to conduct the strategic management of key international intellectual property rights, which includes the licensing of those rights to McDonald's franchisees in Europe, from Switzerland\".She said the decision was \"a long time in the planning\" and was first announced internally in August 2008, denying that it was related to new UK tax rules that took effect at the start of the month.The recent changes to the taxation of foreign profits relate to intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trademarks. They have already prompted the publishing and conference group Informa to relocate its tax domicile out of the UK to Switzerland to escape \"double taxation\" \u2013 once abroad and again in Britain.Under the new UK tax rules, the earnings companies receive from their overseas subsidiaries relating to \"real\" economic activity involving trade in goods and services will not be taxed by the UK authorities. But income derived from intellectual property rights does not fall into this category and will be taxed by HM Revenue & Customs, even if it has already been taxed overseas.Other companies have recently moved from Britain to lower tax regimes such as Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The list includes the advertising giant WPP, drugs group Shire, publishing company United Business Media, rented office group Regus, financial groups Henderson, Brit Insurance and Hiscox, and engineering firm Charter.As part of governments' efforts to stem corporate tax avoidance, there are moves under way to force multinational companies to reveal how much tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Tax avoidance", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "Switzerland", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "McDonald's to move European HQ to Geneva"},{"date": "2009-07-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Pure Mountains offers biking holidays in the stunning Parque Natural de Sierra Nevada. The riding is fantastic with loads of swooping single tracks past flower-filled meadows, the scent of wild herbs in the air. The guiding is excellent, with well thought out routes tailored to the group's abilities. Tim and Jenny's patience is second to none and thanks to them I can now do switch backs! Not forgetting the luxury accommodation - their remote cortijo sits at 1,700m offering stunning views of the villages and valleys of the Alpujarras - great, hearty meals, Land Rover support, picnics en route and an amazing location. The combination of biking, accommodation, food and guiding is the best I have come across. And, at the end of the day, their sunny terrace is the perfect place for a much-deserved beer. Tim and Jenny look after you so well in every aspect of the holiday. \u2022 puremountains.com. Andrew56Le Refuge, ChamonixA little-known haven just outside the centre of town in a protected national park. Once a farmhouse and then a French ambassador's hideaway, it is now a chic chalet. The deck and floor-to-ceiling windows offer a great view of the Mont Blanc massif. \u2022 From \u00a31,450 per week for up to 6 people. 07786 983789, le-refuge.co.uk.JamesWallmanActivity holidays, Ch\u00e2telIn a wonderful resort called Ch\u00e2tel, high up in the French Alps, we went on guided walks, did some mountain biking on scary downhill courses, got soaked whitewater rafting and still had time to relax and do some wine tasting. Our hosts, Mountain Air Holidays, also cooked wonderful meals.Chalets sleep from four to 13 from \u20ac495pp per week, mountainairholidays.co.uk.AdamC33La Barme, CogneYou don't need a car to get deep into the Alps during summer. Getting to Aosta from any of the airports in northern Italy is a doddle on the train (trenitalia.com), and there's a great bus service that will take you up to Cogne (savda.it/orari_tariffe.htm). From there, walk or get the local bus to Valnontey for a great base for spectacular single or multi-day walks, stay at La Barme (hotellabarme.com) for hearty, traditional evening meals. The guide book Walking in Italy's Gran Paradiso by Gillian Price (Cicerone) has loads of great walks. CityGirlCountryLassColletts Mountain Holidays, the DolomitesColletts specialises in activity holidays to the Dolomites, operating in Arabba near Ortisei and also in Pedraces. You can go in summer for walking (and now in winter for skiing, snowshoeing and other activities, too). The frontline staff are mostly young and enthusiastic and nothing is too much trouble. We arrived at 2.30am after a horrendous journey over the mountain passes, and there was a member of staff to greet us with a platter of food, hot drinks and a smile. This is a chalet holiday where you can dip in and out of activities as you like. \u2022 01763 289660, colletts.co.uk.anniescotlandSolis Cambrian Hotel, AdelbodenThis glorious spa hotel in the heart of the Swiss Alps was almost empty when we were there in early June, meaning we had the entire spa - featuring an infinity pool falling away into a valley panorama with snow-capped mountains in the distance - all to ourselves. We had booked a room without a view but were upgraded to one with a breathtaking view. Considering it's unlikely to be fully booked in the summer, I'd recommend doing the same - and paying for an upgrade if it's not provided. Not exorbitantly priced - our bill came to just over \u00a3200 for the night, including decent supper and bar tab. One other tip: while the map makes it look like the journey from Lake Geneva is a jaunt, it is actually up and down some perilous mountains - the motorway via Berne is far quicker.\u2022 0041 33 673 8383, solisadelboden.com. From CHF225 (\u00a3112) per night for two people.DamianP", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Travel", "Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Italy", "Spain holidays", "Switzerland holidays"], "title": "Readers' tips ... chalets in summer"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For a fugitive from US justice, Roman Polanski seems not to have given as much thought as he might have done to the consequences of travelling outside his adopted home, France. There, his French citizenship ensures him protection \u2013 France does not allow its own citizens to be extradited to the US.Presumably, though, he felt safe going to Switzerland, as he has long had a\u00a0chalet in the luxury ski resort of Gstaad and, according to one of his lawyers, travelled widely in continental Europe. \u00a0Los Angeles county authorities have had a warrant out for Polanski's arrest since he fled the US in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting having sex with a 13-year-old girl. But they have only sought his arrest around the world since 2005, when they issued an international arrest warrant.Their renewed interest may have been sparked off by a well-publicised libel action he brought that year in the high court in London against Vanity Fair, over an article about his earlier private life. He testified by video link for fear of being arrested if he set foot in Britain, with its easy extradition arrangements with the US.Since then, the LA county district attorney's office has\u00a0instigated moves to have him arrested at least twice, after learning that\u00a0he was preparing to travel to a country with an extradition treaty with the US, but in the end he decided not to travel. This time the authorities got lucky, spotting that he was due to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival. Unlike his private holidays in Switzerland, this trip was publicised, ensuring plenty of warning to make sure a valid arrest request was in place.The district attorney's office sent a provisional arrest warrant to the US Justice Department, which presented it to the Swiss authorities last week. Polanski was arrested at Zurich airport and taken into \"provisional custody\" in a Zurich jail.Previous cases indicate that challenging his extradition is likely to take many months. Suspects usually remain in custody throughout the process, although bail is not ruled out. The US state department has 60 days to file a request for Polanski's transfer to LA. The request first goes to the Swiss ministry of justice and appeals are possible both against the arrest warrant and against any decision to extradite. Appeals would go to the Swiss federal penal court of justice, and any rulings there can be appealed further to the federal court of justice.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "France", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "How did the law catch up with Roman Polanski?"},{"date": "2009-09-28T11:23:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For fleeing the US after pleading guilty to sex with a 13-year-old girl in 1977. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005; Swiss authorities arrested him on Saturday at Zurich airport.In Swiss custody. The country's justice ministry says he has been put in \"provisional detention\".When Polanski travelled to Switzerland to collect a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival at the weekend, it was far from the first time the director had set foot on Swiss soil.He has openly had a house in Switzerland for \"the last 12, 15 years\", according to his agent, Jeff Berg. The property is a chalet in Gstaad, a ski village in the German-speaking section of the canton of Bern in south-west Switzerland.The Los Angeles county district attorney's office planned the arrest after learning last week that Polanski had plans to travel to Zurich for the film festival, said Sandi Gibbons, a county spokeswoman. Prosecutors sent a provisional arrest warrant to the US justice department, which presented it to Swiss authorities.At least twice before, the district attorney's office has received reports Polanski was going to visit countries with extradition treaties with the US and prepared paperwork for his arrest, according to Gibbons. \"But in the end he apparently found out about it and didn't go,\" she said.Yesterday, the Swiss justice ministry insisted politics played no role. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody,\" said Guido Balmer, a spokesman for the ministry. \"There is no link with any other issues in question.\"Balmer said Swiss police managed to arrest Polanski on this occasion because they knew when and where he would arrive. Switzerland does not perform regular passport checks on arrivals from 24 other European countries. Balmer said many foreigners entered Switzerland without being registered.Many rumours are circulating, but one theory is that the Swiss agreed to arrest Polanski as part of a quid pro quo deal relating to UBS, the Swiss financial services firm. UBS admitted in February that it helped thousands of American citizens evade paying taxes and is still in negotiations about handing over details of secret accounts to the IRS.Yesterday, the news wire service AP accidentally published a memo between reporters in which one journalist hypothesised that the Swiss are \"under intense pressure over UBS and want to throw the US a bone\".Polanski's friend, the writer Robert Harris, has told the Guardian that he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. In Paris, the French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, called the arrest a \"bit sinister\".The US has 60 days to produce a formal extradition request. \"If he agrees with an extradition he could be sent to the US in the next days,\" said Balmer. If Polanski decides to fight his extradition the court process could be quite lengthy, Balmer told the Los Angeles Times.The Swiss justice ministry today would not rule out some sort of bail on strict conditions, including not fleeing Switzerland. A spokesman said such an arrangement was \"not entirely excluded\" under Swiss law.France and Poland have urged Switzerland to free the 76-year-old director on bail and pressed US officials all the way up to the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, on the case.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Switzerland", "France", "Poland", "US news", "Film", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Q&A: Roman Polanski arrest"},{"date": "2009-08-07T08:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Sarine river running through the medieval Swiss town of Fribourg acts as a language border between its inhabitants, with German speakers living on the east bank and French on the west. Fribourg (Freiburg in German) is one of several towns that straddle Switzerland's language divide. It is officially bilingual and as such its river also goes by its German name, the Saane.Switzerland's multilingual heritage sets it apart in Europe, with the four national languages \u2013 German, French, Italian and the little-spoken Romansch \u2013 contributing to about 10% of the country's gross domestic product, according to a 2008 study. English has entered the mix over the last two decades. Its influence has been spread by the numerous international firms headquartered in tax-friendly Swiss municipalities, its increasing use in academia and its general acceptance as an additional language in wider communication.\"Over the last 20 years English has made quite a lot of inroads in Switzerland,\" said Daniel Stotz, an English-teacher trainer in Zurich and researcher into the role of language and Swiss identity.\"In most cases now English is used in wider communication among non-native speakers. Quite a lot of Swiss adults have experienced the fact that English has become a company language. Sometimes it was forced upon them as well. I think some of this interest and perhaps pressure has trickled down to family life.\"It is connected a lot to young people's life chances. There is a perception that English is important, that it allows you to get better jobs. It has a highly symbolic value as well,\" Stotz said.In a ruling last year, the government decided that the most important Swiss laws should be translated into English in response to growing demand for translation of legislation.Strong demand for English lessons in schools has also undermined the priority given to national languages in the curriculum. Switzerland's 26 cantons have agreed to introduce measures over the next few years whereby English will be taught in all primary schools alongside a second national language. Eight and nine-year-olds are already learning it as their first foreign language \u2013 ahead of another national language \u2013 in 10 cantons.Swiss multilingualism has been the subject of a four-year research programme by the National Science Foundation that aims to understand the role of language and help the government to map out \"a new equilibrium\", according to Walter Haas, president of the steering committee.The programme is currently compiling a final report from 26 research projects, which is due for review by government at the end of 2009. The findings show English has a place in Swiss culture, although not necessarily a dominant one. In one Bern University study, Swiss people viewed English as the most useful foreign language, although most opted to use one of the other national languages when first trying to communicate with someone from a different part of the country. Another study by the University of Teacher Education found that early English teaching later helped German-speaking pupils to learn French, while a third project by lawyers proposed making English a semi-official language in order to attract more foreign professionals to the country.Another contributor, University of Geneva economics professor Fran\u00e7ois Grin, calculated that Switzerland's multilingual heritage gave it a competitive advantage worth $42bn \u2013 a tenth of GDP.\"If society is going to invest money anywhere, investing in foreign languages, which in Switzerland means essentially one other national language and English, the rate of return is simply fantastic. By and large, we find that multilingualism is a very well paying asset,\" Grin said.Past research by Grin also pinpointed that English was more valued in German-speaking parts of Switzerland. As German is the majority language spoken by 63% of the population, it was more advantageous for Swiss Germans to know English than French or Italian.It was different in French-speaking regions. The 1997 study established that while English added 18% to salaries in German-speaking regions, it equated to a 10% pay difference in French areas, compared to 14% increases with German or Italian as a second language. Between 1990 and 2000 the use of English increased in the workplace by about 28% and overall use rose in line with other languages, according to census reports.According to Grin, this shows that multilingualism is expanding as a whole. \"English is a very frequently used language but it is not replacing national languages. It plays a supplementary and complementary role,\" he said.One area where English is gaining prominence is within academia. Switzerland backs the 1999 Bologna Declaration, which aims to create a European space for higher education, and the Rectors' Conference of Swiss Universities has in the past acknowledged English as the \"language of academia\". It supports offering more courses in English as the best way of attracting foreign students.Grin says use of English in academia has grown significantly, but as an advocate for linguistic diversity, he warns that the dominance of any one language in intellectual circles risks \"eroding creativity\".\"I believe we are better off with diversity than without, and that it is important to develop language policies that are conducive to the maintenance of diversity. This means if a hegemonic language becomes too overbearing, you have to keep this in check.\"Switzerland defines itself not despite its multilingualism, but as a product of its multilingualism. It's a very deeply rooted cultural value. Without multilingualism, [there is] no Switzerland,\" he said.It is a view shared by the cross-cantonal educational authority, the Swiss Conference of Cantonal Education Directors. \"In a multilingual state, the coordination and development of language teaching is particularly important,\" a spokeswoman said.\"Therefore the notion of a 'lingua franca' will not be limited to English, but rather to an ensemble of languages used within a real context in order to achieve a linguistic exchange.\"She said under Swiss linguistic strategy English had and would continue to have \"an important status as an international language\".But, she added, it is still only part of a bigger picture in which Switzerland shares goals set by the Council of Europe to prioritise multilingualism by ensuring a range of languages, including English, are taught.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Swiss seek multilingual equilibrium"},{"date": "2009-09-27T19:01:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For 31 years he lived as the world's most celebrated fugitive, feted by his peers in the film industry while on the run from American police after admitting having sex with a child.But, it was revealed today, the past has finally caught up with Roman Polanski. The film director was arrested in Switzerland on Saturday on a decades-old warrant relating to the rape of a 13-year-old girl in 1977.The director had travelled to Switzerland to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival, the organisers of which expressed \"great consternation and shock\" at his detention.The 76-year-old director of Rosemary's Baby and Chinatown pleaded guilty to the assault at the time but jumped bail and fled the US the following year to avoid a lengthy jail sentence. For more than three decades he has lived in exile in Paris, refusing to return to the US even when he won an Oscar in 2002 for The Pianist.Zurich police said he was detained at immigration in Zurich on Saturday night at the request of the US justice department and was in custody awaiting extradition.\"I confirm that Mr Polanski has been arrested. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005 in relation to a 1978 warrant,\" said Guido Balmer of the Swiss justice ministry. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody.\" The US will now need to make a formal extradition request, however, and Polanski is likely to challenge his detention in the Swiss courts.Polanski was born in Paris to Polish parents and has French citizenship; France's culture minister Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Mitterand said he was \"dumbfounded\" at the arrest, adding that he \"strongly regrets that a new ordeal is being inflicted on someone who has already experienced so many of them\". The French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, \"is following the case with great attention and shares the minister's hope that the situation can be quickly resolved\", the minister said.Polanski has a house in Switzerland and spent much of the summer there, according to British writer Robert Harris, who in recent months has been working closely with the director on a film adaptation of his novel The Ghost. Harris told the Guardian he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. \"To my knowledge, Roman in recent years has travelled to Germany, Spain, Italy, Egypt, Greece, Russia, China. So why now, all of a sudden, is an elderly man grabbed off a plane on a Saturday night and stuffed into jail?\"The director was permitted one call to his wife, French actor Emmanuelle Seigner, who left their two young children to travel to Switzerland, Harris said. \"This is a high-profile action designed to send out some sort of message to someone somewhere. No one condones what happened in the 70s, but I think this is pretty appalling.\"A statement from the Swiss Association of Directors called it a \"grotesque judicial farce and a monstrous cultural scandal\", while the country's Association of Film Directors and Script Writers called the move \"a slap in the face for the entire cultural community in Switzerland\".Polanski was 44 and already a twice-Oscar-nominated director in March 1977 when he had sex with Samantha Gailey, a 13-year-old model he had hired for a photoshoot, at Jack Nicholson's house in Los Angeles. He has argued that the sex was consensual, saying the girl was \"not unresponsive\", though Gailey said he drugged her with painkillers and champagne before carrying out a \"very scary\" assault.The director pleaded guilty to unlawful sexual intercourse in a deal with prosecutors that saw them drop charges of rape, drugging and sodomy, which could have carried a life sentence, but fled the country in February 1978 when it became apparent that he was likely to serve time in prison.Polanski's arrest is the latest twist in an extraordinary life that has been marked by violence, tragedy and controversy. His family returned to Poland shortly before the outbreak of the second world war and were forced into the Krakow ghetto with thousands of other Jewish families. The young Polanski escaped from the ghetto in 1943, but his parents were shipped to concentration camps, and his mother was murdered in Auschwitz.Polanski married American actor Sharon Tate in 1968, but the following year, when eight months pregnant with his baby, she and four other people were brutally murdered by members of Charles Manson's \"family\".In recent months, lawyers for Polanski have been seeking through the US courts to have the rape charges against him dropped, after new evidence emerged in a documentary that, they argued, showed he was a victim of \"judicial misconduct\" at his original trial. The film showed a former Los Angeles deputy district attorney admitting discussing the case with the trial judge while it was ongoing.In February a Los Angeles judge agreed that \"substantial \u2026 misconduct\" had taken place during the original court proceedings, but said he could not drop the charges so long as Polanski remained a fugitive. Polanski has since appealed against the ruling, insisting he would not voluntarily return to the US even to clear his name.Gailey, now called Samantha Geimer and a 44-year-old mother of three (pictured left), has also spoken in support of his attempt to dismiss the charges, accusing the district attorney's office of resurrecting \"lurid details\" of her assault to distract attention from its own wrongdoing. \"True as they may be, the continued publication of those details causes harm to me.\"She added: \"I have survived, indeed prevailed against, whatever harm Mr Polanski may have caused me as a child.\"", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "Switzerland", "France", "US news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski arrested in Switzerland 31 years after fleeing trial"},{"date": "2009-07-13T13:21:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "McDonald's is shifting its European headquarters to Geneva, in a snub to the European Union, to benefit from Switzerland's advantageous intellectual property tax laws.The US fast-food chain is joining other foreign companies that have moved their European headquarters to a more favourable tax regime. US corporations that have based themselves in Switzerland include Kraft, Procter & Gamble, Colgate-Palmolive, Yahoo! and Google.McDonald's said its new European head office would be opened in Geneva before the end of the year. It will bring together all senior management, who are spread across four regional centres: London, Paris, Munich and Vienna. The company's European president, Denis Hennequin, who until now has split his time between London and Paris, will be among the executives making the move to Geneva.The four regional centres will remain open and the UK's business will continue to be run from London by Steve Easterbrook.A spokeswoman for McDonald's said the move \"will enable us to conduct the strategic management of key international intellectual property rights, which includes the licensing of those rights to McDonald's franchisees in Europe, from Switzerland\".She said the decision was \"a long time in the planning\" and was first announced internally in August 2008, denying that it was related to new UK tax rules that took effect at the start of the month.The recent changes to the taxation of foreign profits relate to intellectual property rights such as patents, copyrights and trademarks. They have already prompted the publishing and conference group Informa to relocate its tax domicile out of the UK to Switzerland to escape \"double taxation\" \u2013 once abroad and again in Britain.Under the new UK tax rules, the earnings companies receive from their overseas subsidiaries relating to \"real\" economic activity involving trade in goods and services will not be taxed by the UK authorities. But income derived from intellectual property rights does not fall into this category and will be taxed by HM Revenue & Customs, even if it has already been taxed overseas.Other companies have recently moved from Britain to lower tax regimes such as Ireland, Luxembourg and the Netherlands. The list includes the advertising giant WPP, drugs group Shire, publishing company United Business Media, rented office group Regus, financial groups Henderson, Brit Insurance and Hiscox, and engineering firm Charter.As part of governments' efforts to stem corporate tax avoidance, there are moves under way to force multinational companies to reveal how much tax they pay in each jurisdiction they operate in.", "tags": ["McDonald's", "Tax avoidance", "Food & drink industry", "Business", "Switzerland", "UK news", "Europe"], "title": "McDonald's to move European HQ to Geneva"},{"date": "2009-07-03T23:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Pure Mountains offers biking holidays in the stunning Parque Natural de Sierra Nevada. The riding is fantastic with loads of swooping single tracks past flower-filled meadows, the scent of wild herbs in the air. The guiding is excellent, with well thought out routes tailored to the group's abilities. Tim and Jenny's patience is second to none and thanks to them I can now do switch backs! Not forgetting the luxury accommodation - their remote cortijo sits at 1,700m offering stunning views of the villages and valleys of the Alpujarras - great, hearty meals, Land Rover support, picnics en route and an amazing location. The combination of biking, accommodation, food and guiding is the best I have come across. And, at the end of the day, their sunny terrace is the perfect place for a much-deserved beer. Tim and Jenny look after you so well in every aspect of the holiday. \u2022 puremountains.com. Andrew56Le Refuge, ChamonixA little-known haven just outside the centre of town in a protected national park. Once a farmhouse and then a French ambassador's hideaway, it is now a chic chalet. The deck and floor-to-ceiling windows offer a great view of the Mont Blanc massif. \u2022 From \u00a31,450 per week for up to 6 people. 07786 983789, le-refuge.co.uk.JamesWallmanActivity holidays, Ch\u00e2telIn a wonderful resort called Ch\u00e2tel, high up in the French Alps, we went on guided walks, did some mountain biking on scary downhill courses, got soaked whitewater rafting and still had time to relax and do some wine tasting. Our hosts, Mountain Air Holidays, also cooked wonderful meals.Chalets sleep from four to 13 from \u20ac495pp per week, mountainairholidays.co.uk.AdamC33La Barme, CogneYou don't need a car to get deep into the Alps during summer. Getting to Aosta from any of the airports in northern Italy is a doddle on the train (trenitalia.com), and there's a great bus service that will take you up to Cogne (savda.it/orari_tariffe.htm). From there, walk or get the local bus to Valnontey for a great base for spectacular single or multi-day walks, stay at La Barme (hotellabarme.com) for hearty, traditional evening meals. The guide book Walking in Italy's Gran Paradiso by Gillian Price (Cicerone) has loads of great walks. CityGirlCountryLassColletts Mountain Holidays, the DolomitesColletts specialises in activity holidays to the Dolomites, operating in Arabba near Ortisei and also in Pedraces. You can go in summer for walking (and now in winter for skiing, snowshoeing and other activities, too). The frontline staff are mostly young and enthusiastic and nothing is too much trouble. We arrived at 2.30am after a horrendous journey over the mountain passes, and there was a member of staff to greet us with a platter of food, hot drinks and a smile. This is a chalet holiday where you can dip in and out of activities as you like. \u2022 01763 289660, colletts.co.uk.anniescotlandSolis Cambrian Hotel, AdelbodenThis glorious spa hotel in the heart of the Swiss Alps was almost empty when we were there in early June, meaning we had the entire spa - featuring an infinity pool falling away into a valley panorama with snow-capped mountains in the distance - all to ourselves. We had booked a room without a view but were upgraded to one with a breathtaking view. Considering it's unlikely to be fully booked in the summer, I'd recommend doing the same - and paying for an upgrade if it's not provided. Not exorbitantly priced - our bill came to just over \u00a3200 for the night, including decent supper and bar tab. One other tip: while the map makes it look like the journey from Lake Geneva is a jaunt, it is actually up and down some perilous mountains - the motorway via Berne is far quicker.\u2022 0041 33 673 8383, solisadelboden.com. From CHF225 (\u00a3112) per night for two people.DamianP", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Travel", "Cycling holidays", "France holidays", "Italy", "Spain holidays", "Switzerland holidays"], "title": "Readers' tips ... chalets in summer"},{"date": "2009-09-28T23:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For a fugitive from US justice, Roman Polanski seems not to have given as much thought as he might have done to the consequences of travelling outside his adopted home, France. There, his French citizenship ensures him protection \u2013 France does not allow its own citizens to be extradited to the US.Presumably, though, he felt safe going to Switzerland, as he has long had a\u00a0chalet in the luxury ski resort of Gstaad and, according to one of his lawyers, travelled widely in continental Europe. \u00a0Los Angeles county authorities have had a warrant out for Polanski's arrest since he fled the US in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting having sex with a 13-year-old girl. But they have only sought his arrest around the world since 2005, when they issued an international arrest warrant.Their renewed interest may have been sparked off by a well-publicised libel action he brought that year in the high court in London against Vanity Fair, over an article about his earlier private life. He testified by video link for fear of being arrested if he set foot in Britain, with its easy extradition arrangements with the US.Since then, the LA county district attorney's office has\u00a0instigated moves to have him arrested at least twice, after learning that\u00a0he was preparing to travel to a country with an extradition treaty with the US, but in the end he decided not to travel. This time the authorities got lucky, spotting that he was due to accept a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival. Unlike his private holidays in Switzerland, this trip was publicised, ensuring plenty of warning to make sure a valid arrest request was in place.The district attorney's office sent a provisional arrest warrant to the US Justice Department, which presented it to the Swiss authorities last week. Polanski was arrested at Zurich airport and taken into \"provisional custody\" in a Zurich jail.Previous cases indicate that challenging his extradition is likely to take many months. Suspects usually remain in custody throughout the process, although bail is not ruled out. The US state department has 60 days to file a request for Polanski's transfer to LA. The request first goes to the Swiss ministry of justice and appeals are possible both against the arrest warrant and against any decision to extradite. Appeals would go to the Swiss federal penal court of justice, and any rulings there can be appealed further to the federal court of justice.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Culture", "World news", "France", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "How did the law catch up with Roman Polanski?"},{"date": "2009-09-28T11:23:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "For fleeing the US after pleading guilty to sex with a 13-year-old girl in 1977. The American authorities issued an international search request in 2005; Swiss authorities arrested him on Saturday at Zurich airport.In Swiss custody. The country's justice ministry says he has been put in \"provisional detention\".When Polanski travelled to Switzerland to collect a lifetime achievement award at the Zurich film festival at the weekend, it was far from the first time the director had set foot on Swiss soil.He has openly had a house in Switzerland for \"the last 12, 15 years\", according to his agent, Jeff Berg. The property is a chalet in Gstaad, a ski village in the German-speaking section of the canton of Bern in south-west Switzerland.The Los Angeles county district attorney's office planned the arrest after learning last week that Polanski had plans to travel to Zurich for the film festival, said Sandi Gibbons, a county spokeswoman. Prosecutors sent a provisional arrest warrant to the US justice department, which presented it to Swiss authorities.At least twice before, the district attorney's office has received reports Polanski was going to visit countries with extradition treaties with the US and prepared paperwork for his arrest, according to Gibbons. \"But in the end he apparently found out about it and didn't go,\" she said.Yesterday, the Swiss justice ministry insisted politics played no role. \"There was a valid arrest request and we knew when he was coming. That's why he was taken into custody,\" said Guido Balmer, a spokesman for the ministry. \"There is no link with any other issues in question.\"Balmer said Swiss police managed to arrest Polanski on this occasion because they knew when and where he would arrive. Switzerland does not perform regular passport checks on arrivals from 24 other European countries. Balmer said many foreigners entered Switzerland without being registered.Many rumours are circulating, but one theory is that the Swiss agreed to arrest Polanski as part of a quid pro quo deal relating to UBS, the Swiss financial services firm. UBS admitted in February that it helped thousands of American citizens evade paying taxes and is still in negotiations about handing over details of secret accounts to the IRS.Yesterday, the news wire service AP accidentally published a memo between reporters in which one journalist hypothesised that the Swiss are \"under intense pressure over UBS and want to throw the US a bone\".Polanski's friend, the writer Robert Harris, has told the Guardian that he thought there was \"something very odd, very suspicious\" about the timing of the arrest. In Paris, the French foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, called the arrest a \"bit sinister\".The US has 60 days to produce a formal extradition request. \"If he agrees with an extradition he could be sent to the US in the next days,\" said Balmer. If Polanski decides to fight his extradition the court process could be quite lengthy, Balmer told the Los Angeles Times.The Swiss justice ministry today would not rule out some sort of bail on strict conditions, including not fleeing Switzerland. A spokesman said such an arrangement was \"not entirely excluded\" under Swiss law.France and Poland have urged Switzerland to free the 76-year-old director on bail and pressed US officials all the way up to the secretary of state, Hillary Clinton, on the case.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Switzerland", "France", "Poland", "US news", "Film", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Q&A: Roman Polanski arrest"},{"date": "2009-08-07T08:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Sarine river running through the medieval Swiss town of Fribourg acts as a language border between its inhabitants, with German speakers living on the east bank and French on the west. Fribourg (Freiburg in German) is one of several towns that straddle Switzerland's language divide. It is officially bilingual and as such its river also goes by its German name, the Saane.Switzerland's multilingual heritage sets it apart in Europe, with the four national languages \u2013 German, French, Italian and the little-spoken Romansch \u2013 contributing to about 10% of the country's gross domestic product, according to a 2008 study. English has entered the mix over the last two decades. Its influence has been spread by the numerous international firms headquartered in tax-friendly Swiss municipalities, its increasing use in academia and its general acceptance as an additional language in wider communication.\"Over the last 20 years English has made quite a lot of inroads in Switzerland,\" said Daniel Stotz, an English-teacher trainer in Zurich and researcher into the role of language and Swiss identity.\"In most cases now English is used in wider communication among non-native speakers. Quite a lot of Swiss adults have experienced the fact that English has become a company language. Sometimes it was forced upon them as well. I think some of this interest and perhaps pressure has trickled down to family life.\"It is connected a lot to young people's life chances. There is a perception that English is important, that it allows you to get better jobs. It has a highly symbolic value as well,\" Stotz said.In a ruling last year, the government decided that the most important Swiss laws should be translated into English in response to growing demand for translation of legislation.Strong demand for English lessons in schools has also undermined the priority given to national languages in the curriculum. Switzerland's 26 cantons have agreed to introduce measures over the next few years whereby English will be taught in all primary schools alongside a second national language. Eight and nine-year-olds are already learning it as their first foreign language \u2013 ahead of another national language \u2013 in 10 cantons.Swiss multilingualism has been the subject of a four-year research programme by the National Science Foundation that aims to understand the role of language and help the government to map out \"a new equilibrium\", according to Walter Haas, president of the steering committee.The programme is currently compiling a final report from 26 research projects, which is due for review by government at the end of 2009. The findings show English has a place in Swiss culture, although not necessarily a dominant one. In one Bern University study, Swiss people viewed English as the most useful foreign language, although most opted to use one of the other national languages when first trying to communicate with someone from a different part of the country. Another study by the University of Teacher Education found that early English teaching later helped German-speaking pupils to learn French, while a third project by lawyers proposed making English a semi-official language in order to attract more foreign professionals to the country.Another contributor, University of Geneva economics professor Fran\u00e7ois Grin, calculated that Switzerland's multilingual heritage gave it a competitive advantage worth $42bn \u2013 a tenth of GDP.\"If society is going to invest money anywhere, investing in foreign languages, which in Switzerland means essentially one other national language and English, the rate of return is simply fantastic. By and large, we find that multilingualism is a very well paying asset,\" Grin said.Past research by Grin also pinpointed that English was more valued in German-speaking parts of Switzerland. As German is the majority language spoken by 63% of the population, it was more advantageous for Swiss Germans to know English than French or Italian.It was different in French-speaking regions. The 1997 study established that while English added 18% to salaries in German-speaking regions, it equated to a 10% pay difference in French areas, compared to 14% increases with German or Italian as a second language. Between 1990 and 2000 the use of English increased in the workplace by about 28% and overall use rose in line with other languages, according to census reports.According to Grin, this shows that multilingualism is expanding as a whole. \"English is a very frequently used language but it is not replacing national languages. It plays a supplementary and complementary role,\" he said.One area where English is gaining prominence is within academia. Switzerland backs the 1999 Bologna Declaration, which aims to create a European space for higher education, and the Rectors' Conference of Swiss Universities has in the past acknowledged English as the \"language of academia\". It supports offering more courses in English as the best way of attracting foreign students.Grin says use of English in academia has grown significantly, but as an advocate for linguistic diversity, he warns that the dominance of any one language in intellectual circles risks \"eroding creativity\".\"I believe we are better off with diversity than without, and that it is important to develop language policies that are conducive to the maintenance of diversity. This means if a hegemonic language becomes too overbearing, you have to keep this in check.\"Switzerland defines itself not despite its multilingualism, but as a product of its multilingualism. It's a very deeply rooted cultural value. Without multilingualism, [there is] no Switzerland,\" he said.It is a view shared by the cross-cantonal educational authority, the Swiss Conference of Cantonal Education Directors. \"In a multilingual state, the coordination and development of language teaching is particularly important,\" a spokeswoman said.\"Therefore the notion of a 'lingua franca' will not be limited to English, but rather to an ensemble of languages used within a real context in order to achieve a linguistic exchange.\"She said under Swiss linguistic strategy English had and would continue to have \"an important status as an international language\".But, she added, it is still only part of a bigger picture in which Switzerland shares goals set by the Council of Europe to prioritise multilingualism by ensuring a range of languages, including English, are taught.", "tags": ["Tefl", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Swiss seek multilingual equilibrium"},{"date": "2009-08-30T17:11:44Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The secretive world of Swiss banking showed signs of edging towards greater transparency today when France announced it had received the details of thousands of people suspected of evading taxes in undeclared accounts.Eric Woerth, the French budget minister, said Paris had been given the names of 3,000 French residents who were \"very probably\" profiting illegally from the neighbouring country's opaque fiscal system.The value of the assets in the accounts was estimated at about \u00a43bn (\u00a32.6bn), he added.\"This is the first time that we have this kind of precise information, with the names, the account numbers and the amounts deposited,\" he said in an interview with the Journal du Dimanche newspaper. \"It's exceptional.\"The unprecedented move, which will send jitters through the thousands of French citizens thought to escape their own country's fiscal regulations by stashing money over the border, comes days after Paris and Berne signed an agreement aimed at sharing more information on suspected tax evaders. Switzerland, the world's largest offshore banking centre, is attempting to bring itself back in from the cold after its idiosyncratic financial practices were sharply rebuked at the London G20 summit of leaders in April.Amid an economic crisis which left little patience for the continuing existence of tax havens, Switzerland was put on a \"grey list\" of countries considered by the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to be failing to co-operate \"substantially\" on sharing information. Since then, it has reluctantly promised to help other countries crack down on tax evasion while at the same time seeking to reassure its banks' customers that its protective layer of secrecy will remain.According to the Swiss finance ministry, the government has now signed taxation agreements in line with OECD recommendations with France, Denmark and Luxembourg, which was removed from the \"grey list\" in July.It is also understood to have initialled - but not yet signed - similar deals with a number of other countries, including Britain and the United States.Signs are emerging that this tentative new era of co-operation could be yielding some success. This month the Swiss government agreed to provide US tax inspectors with the details of 4,450 accounts with the country's biggest bank, UBS.Woerth urged those who fear they are on the list of names given to the French authorities to give themselves up and pay the extra taxes and penalties before the end of the year.Otherwise, he said, the authorities would take legal action to hunt down suspected offenders.France is keen to pull its weight in the fight against tax havens, which president Nicolas Sarkozy has championed as a crucial part of a drive to \"moralise\" capitalism in the wake of the global crisis.News of the fresh assault on tax evasion came just days after Sarkozy announced a series of regulations on traders' bonuses and urged the rest of the G20 nations \u2013 due to meet in Pittsburgh on 24 September \u2013 to follow suit.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Banking", "UBS", "Switzerland", "France", "G20", "Europe"], "title": "Swiss banks release names of 3,000 French account-holders"},{"date": "2009-12-01T10:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Though Muslims don't need minarets to worship, the Swiss vote to ban them is a troubling sign of mounting intolerance.Alongside the crescent, the minaret is one of the most instantly recognisable symbols of Islam. However, it's only functional purpose \u2013 to call worshippers to pray \u2013 has, in the modern age, become obsolete. And even then, it is not absolutely necessary, as attested to by the earliest mosques which did not have minarets.That is why, at face value, the Swiss referendum on whether to ban minarets, especially since there are only four of them in the entire country, as Tariq Ramadan points out, seems superficial and pointless. In fact, when my wife first heard the news she wondered whether the Swiss didn't have anything more important to go to the ballot box for.Preposterous as the whole campaign is, especially given that Zurich's oldest minaret is so much a part of the cityscape that most passers-by don't even notice it, it does carry certain ominous undertones.Although mosques don't need minarets to function and Muslims don't need them to worship, the Swiss decision \u2013 by a majority of 57% \u2013 to ban their construction carries enormous symbolic significance. Ironically, it even came on the weekend in which Muslims were celebrating one of their holiest festivals, Eid al-Adha.To be clear, Muslims in Switzerland are still legally entitled to practise their faith. However, the message this vote sends is one that undermines the principle of religious freedom. The Swiss are effectively saying that, even if Muslims have the legal right to gather together for communal prayer, mainstream society wants them to be invisible.In addition, one can't help thinking that for one of the main sponsors of the referendum, the far-right and populist Swiss People's Party (SVP), the heart of the issue is not so much minarets, but Muslims themselves. If it were up to them, I suspect, they would much rather ban Islam than minarets \u2013 but fortunately the law would never allow them to organise such a vote and Swiss voters don't fear Muslims enough to go that far \u2013 judging by some of the statements members of the party made in the run-up to the vote.For example, the SVP's Ulrich Schl\u00fcer described the minaret as \"a symbol of political power, a prelude to the introduction of sharia law\". In this, the SVP is like far-right parties across Europe who subscribe to the preposterous notion of the imminent emergence of a \"Eurabia\", a myth I've deconstructed before.As a sign of the deeper hatred upon which this ban is built \u2013 and a foretaste of things to come if we do not address the issue of intercommunal relations in Europe urgently \u2013 anti-Muslim politicians in other parts of Europe are already jumping on the Swiss bandwagon.The party of the infamous Geert Wilders \u2013 who has already called unsuccessfully for the banning of the Qur'an \u2013 has demanded a similar referendum to be carried out in the Netherlands.Mario Borghezio of Italy's Northern League also called for a vote in Italy, surreally suggesting that: \"The flag of a courageous Switzerland which wants to remain Christian is flying over a near-Islamised Europe.\"Unsurprisingly, the Swiss decision has not gone down well in Arab and Muslim countries. But I offer a similar observation to the one I made at the time of the German hijab murder controversy: troubling and Islamophobic as this vote is, millions of Swiss and other Europeans also find it reprehensible. In addition, it is not a sign that European Muslims are being persecuted. In fact, the Muslim minority in most of Europe enjoys more freedom of faith and conscience than minorities in many Muslim countries.Nevertheless, the vote does fill me with foreboding. If matters are left unchecked, then European Muslims could well one day, become an oppressed or persecuted minority, and the artificial divide between western and Muslim countries could widen until it becomes an unbridgeable chasm.We like to take pride in the fact that we live in the most tolerant times ever. But there were periods in Europe's history where Christianity and Islam actually may have co-existed more harmoniously than they do today. An interesting example of this was Sicily, under both Arab and Norman rule.On the eve of the Swiss minaret referendum, our son, who is of mixed Arab and European background, was born. Although we are sceptical of religion, intend to give him a secular upbringing and let the choice of belief system be his when he comes of age, I hope that by the time Iskander is an adult, he will be able to live comfortably and proudly with his multicultural heritage and not be discriminated against because of it.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Building intolerance in Switzerland | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-12-01T10:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Though Muslims don't need minarets to worship, the Swiss vote to ban them is a troubling sign of mounting intolerance.Alongside the crescent, the minaret is one of the most instantly recognisable symbols of Islam. However, it's only functional purpose \u2013 to call worshippers to pray \u2013 has, in the modern age, become obsolete. And even then, it is not absolutely necessary, as attested to by the earliest mosques which did not have minarets.That is why, at face value, the Swiss referendum on whether to ban minarets, especially since there are only four of them in the entire country, as Tariq Ramadan points out, seems superficial and pointless. In fact, when my wife first heard the news she wondered whether the Swiss didn't have anything more important to go to the ballot box for.Preposterous as the whole campaign is, especially given that Zurich's oldest minaret is so much a part of the cityscape that most passers-by don't even notice it, it does carry certain ominous undertones.Although mosques don't need minarets to function and Muslims don't need them to worship, the Swiss decision \u2013 by a majority of 57% \u2013 to ban their construction carries enormous symbolic significance. Ironically, it even came on the weekend in which Muslims were celebrating one of their holiest festivals, Eid al-Adha.To be clear, Muslims in Switzerland are still legally entitled to practise their faith. However, the message this vote sends is one that undermines the principle of religious freedom. The Swiss are effectively saying that, even if Muslims have the legal right to gather together for communal prayer, mainstream society wants them to be invisible.In addition, one can't help thinking that for one of the main sponsors of the referendum, the far-right and populist Swiss People's Party (SVP), the heart of the issue is not so much minarets, but Muslims themselves. If it were up to them, I suspect, they would much rather ban Islam than minarets \u2013 but fortunately the law would never allow them to organise such a vote and Swiss voters don't fear Muslims enough to go that far \u2013 judging by some of the statements members of the party made in the run-up to the vote.For example, the SVP's Ulrich Schl\u00fcer described the minaret as \"a symbol of political power, a prelude to the introduction of sharia law\". In this, the SVP is like far-right parties across Europe who subscribe to the preposterous notion of the imminent emergence of a \"Eurabia\", a myth I've deconstructed before.As a sign of the deeper hatred upon which this ban is built \u2013 and a foretaste of things to come if we do not address the issue of intercommunal relations in Europe urgently \u2013 anti-Muslim politicians in other parts of Europe are already jumping on the Swiss bandwagon.The party of the infamous Geert Wilders \u2013 who has already called unsuccessfully for the banning of the Qur'an \u2013 has demanded a similar referendum to be carried out in the Netherlands.Mario Borghezio of Italy's Northern League also called for a vote in Italy, surreally suggesting that: \"The flag of a courageous Switzerland which wants to remain Christian is flying over a near-Islamised Europe.\"Unsurprisingly, the Swiss decision has not gone down well in Arab and Muslim countries. But I offer a similar observation to the one I made at the time of the German hijab murder controversy: troubling and Islamophobic as this vote is, millions of Swiss and other Europeans also find it reprehensible. In addition, it is not a sign that European Muslims are being persecuted. In fact, the Muslim minority in most of Europe enjoys more freedom of faith and conscience than minorities in many Muslim countries.Nevertheless, the vote does fill me with foreboding. If matters are left unchecked, then European Muslims could well one day, become an oppressed or persecuted minority, and the artificial divide between western and Muslim countries could widen until it becomes an unbridgeable chasm.We like to take pride in the fact that we live in the most tolerant times ever. But there were periods in Europe's history where Christianity and Islam actually may have co-existed more harmoniously than they do today. An interesting example of this was Sicily, under both Arab and Norman rule.On the eve of the Swiss minaret referendum, our son, who is of mixed Arab and European background, was born. Although we are sceptical of religion, intend to give him a secular upbringing and let the choice of belief system be his when he comes of age, I hope that by the time Iskander is an adult, he will be able to live comfortably and proudly with his multicultural heritage and not be discriminated against because of it.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Building intolerance in Switzerland | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-12-08T19:06:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy today voiced sympathy for Switzerland's controversial decision to ban the building of Muslim minarets, calling on religious practitioners to avoid \"ostentation\" and \"provocation\" for fear of upsetting others.The French president said he was surprised by the widespread criticism of the outcome of last week's referendum in Switzerland when 57% voted to proscribe the building of new minarets in a country that has four, and is home to 400,000 Muslims.Sarkozy's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, promptly denounced the Swiss decision last week, saying he was shocked and scandalised and calling for the ban to be reversed.But writing in the Le Monde newspaper, Sarkozy defended the Swiss in arguing for the necessity of the contentious debate on national identity he has sponsored in France.\"How can you not be amazed at the reaction that this decision has produced in certain media and political circles in our own country,\" Sarkozy said. \"Instead of condemning the Swiss out of hand, we should try to understand what they meant to express and what so many people in Europe feel, including people in France.\"He was the first national leader in Europe to offer a detailed opinion on a decision that the Swiss government has criticised as discriminatory and probably illegal, if implemented.Sarkozy called for discretion from France's 6 million Muslims, the biggest Muslim community in Europe, in their observance of religion, while pledging to fight all discrimination.\"Christians, Jews, Muslims, all believers regardless of their faith, must refrain from ostentation and provocation and ... practise their religion in humble discretion.\" Muslims would need to find a way of integrating in France \"without conflicting with our social and civic pact\" while moderate Islam would fail if Muslims sought to challenge the country's republican value system or Christian heritage.Sarkozy's intervention in the Swiss dilemma, Europe's first direct vote on Islam, came in the midst of the bout of navel-gazing over French national identity launched by his government last month.Despite much criticism, Sarkozy argued that the Swiss vote showed there was no point in being in denial about such soul-searching. The national identity debate is running in tandem with proposals to ban the burka and critics argue that Sarkozy's initiative has degenerated into a populist proxy debate on immigration, with the president seeking to outflank the extreme right and steal their votes.A major conference on national identity is to be held in Paris in February after the debate moved to parliament today, preceded by town hall meetings and heated internet discussions over the past month. Next month parliament is also to consider whether the burka should be banned and in Marseilles there is dispute over the planned construction of a Grand Mosque with a 25-metre minaret.Martine Aubry, the opposition socialist leader, says Sarkozy is making a calculated attempt to stir xenophobia by calling for the public debates.The Swiss referendum has attracted much criticism, including from the government and the churches in Switzerland. It singled out Islam for restrictions and is seen as discriminatory and in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.But the Swiss procedure has been seized on by far-right politicians in Italy, Austria, and the Netherlands as exemplary. The vote was unique to the Swiss model of plebiscitary democracy which compels single-issue referendums if 100,000 signatures are collected in an 18-month period.Such direct single-issue votes are unlikely elsewhere in Europe, but newspaper opinion polls in Spain, France and Germany since last week's referendum have shown large majorities supporting a ban on minarets.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Switzerland", "Islam", "France", "World news", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Sarkozy defends Switzerland minaret ban"},{"date": "2009-12-01T10:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Though Muslims don't need minarets to worship, the Swiss vote to ban them is a troubling sign of mounting intolerance.Alongside the crescent, the minaret is one of the most instantly recognisable symbols of Islam. However, it's only functional purpose \u2013 to call worshippers to pray \u2013 has, in the modern age, become obsolete. And even then, it is not absolutely necessary, as attested to by the earliest mosques which did not have minarets.That is why, at face value, the Swiss referendum on whether to ban minarets, especially since there are only four of them in the entire country, as Tariq Ramadan points out, seems superficial and pointless. In fact, when my wife first heard the news she wondered whether the Swiss didn't have anything more important to go to the ballot box for.Preposterous as the whole campaign is, especially given that Zurich's oldest minaret is so much a part of the cityscape that most passers-by don't even notice it, it does carry certain ominous undertones.Although mosques don't need minarets to function and Muslims don't need them to worship, the Swiss decision \u2013 by a majority of 57% \u2013 to ban their construction carries enormous symbolic significance. Ironically, it even came on the weekend in which Muslims were celebrating one of their holiest festivals, Eid al-Adha.To be clear, Muslims in Switzerland are still legally entitled to practise their faith. However, the message this vote sends is one that undermines the principle of religious freedom. The Swiss are effectively saying that, even if Muslims have the legal right to gather together for communal prayer, mainstream society wants them to be invisible.In addition, one can't help thinking that for one of the main sponsors of the referendum, the far-right and populist Swiss People's Party (SVP), the heart of the issue is not so much minarets, but Muslims themselves. If it were up to them, I suspect, they would much rather ban Islam than minarets \u2013 but fortunately the law would never allow them to organise such a vote and Swiss voters don't fear Muslims enough to go that far \u2013 judging by some of the statements members of the party made in the run-up to the vote.For example, the SVP's Ulrich Schl\u00fcer described the minaret as \"a symbol of political power, a prelude to the introduction of sharia law\". In this, the SVP is like far-right parties across Europe who subscribe to the preposterous notion of the imminent emergence of a \"Eurabia\", a myth I've deconstructed before.As a sign of the deeper hatred upon which this ban is built \u2013 and a foretaste of things to come if we do not address the issue of intercommunal relations in Europe urgently \u2013 anti-Muslim politicians in other parts of Europe are already jumping on the Swiss bandwagon.The party of the infamous Geert Wilders \u2013 who has already called unsuccessfully for the banning of the Qur'an \u2013 has demanded a similar referendum to be carried out in the Netherlands.Mario Borghezio of Italy's Northern League also called for a vote in Italy, surreally suggesting that: \"The flag of a courageous Switzerland which wants to remain Christian is flying over a near-Islamised Europe.\"Unsurprisingly, the Swiss decision has not gone down well in Arab and Muslim countries. But I offer a similar observation to the one I made at the time of the German hijab murder controversy: troubling and Islamophobic as this vote is, millions of Swiss and other Europeans also find it reprehensible. In addition, it is not a sign that European Muslims are being persecuted. In fact, the Muslim minority in most of Europe enjoys more freedom of faith and conscience than minorities in many Muslim countries.Nevertheless, the vote does fill me with foreboding. If matters are left unchecked, then European Muslims could well one day, become an oppressed or persecuted minority, and the artificial divide between western and Muslim countries could widen until it becomes an unbridgeable chasm.We like to take pride in the fact that we live in the most tolerant times ever. But there were periods in Europe's history where Christianity and Islam actually may have co-existed more harmoniously than they do today. An interesting example of this was Sicily, under both Arab and Norman rule.On the eve of the Swiss minaret referendum, our son, who is of mixed Arab and European background, was born. Although we are sceptical of religion, intend to give him a secular upbringing and let the choice of belief system be his when he comes of age, I hope that by the time Iskander is an adult, he will be able to live comfortably and proudly with his multicultural heritage and not be discriminated against because of it.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Building intolerance in Switzerland | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-12-08T19:06:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy today voiced sympathy for Switzerland's controversial decision to ban the building of Muslim minarets, calling on religious practitioners to avoid \"ostentation\" and \"provocation\" for fear of upsetting others.The French president said he was surprised by the widespread criticism of the outcome of last week's referendum in Switzerland when 57% voted to proscribe the building of new minarets in a country that has four, and is home to 400,000 Muslims.Sarkozy's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, promptly denounced the Swiss decision last week, saying he was shocked and scandalised and calling for the ban to be reversed.But writing in the Le Monde newspaper, Sarkozy defended the Swiss in arguing for the necessity of the contentious debate on national identity he has sponsored in France.\"How can you not be amazed at the reaction that this decision has produced in certain media and political circles in our own country,\" Sarkozy said. \"Instead of condemning the Swiss out of hand, we should try to understand what they meant to express and what so many people in Europe feel, including people in France.\"He was the first national leader in Europe to offer a detailed opinion on a decision that the Swiss government has criticised as discriminatory and probably illegal, if implemented.Sarkozy called for discretion from France's 6 million Muslims, the biggest Muslim community in Europe, in their observance of religion, while pledging to fight all discrimination.\"Christians, Jews, Muslims, all believers regardless of their faith, must refrain from ostentation and provocation and ... practise their religion in humble discretion.\" Muslims would need to find a way of integrating in France \"without conflicting with our social and civic pact\" while moderate Islam would fail if Muslims sought to challenge the country's republican value system or Christian heritage.Sarkozy's intervention in the Swiss dilemma, Europe's first direct vote on Islam, came in the midst of the bout of navel-gazing over French national identity launched by his government last month.Despite much criticism, Sarkozy argued that the Swiss vote showed there was no point in being in denial about such soul-searching. The national identity debate is running in tandem with proposals to ban the burka and critics argue that Sarkozy's initiative has degenerated into a populist proxy debate on immigration, with the president seeking to outflank the extreme right and steal their votes.A major conference on national identity is to be held in Paris in February after the debate moved to parliament today, preceded by town hall meetings and heated internet discussions over the past month. Next month parliament is also to consider whether the burka should be banned and in Marseilles there is dispute over the planned construction of a Grand Mosque with a 25-metre minaret.Martine Aubry, the opposition socialist leader, says Sarkozy is making a calculated attempt to stir xenophobia by calling for the public debates.The Swiss referendum has attracted much criticism, including from the government and the churches in Switzerland. It singled out Islam for restrictions and is seen as discriminatory and in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.But the Swiss procedure has been seized on by far-right politicians in Italy, Austria, and the Netherlands as exemplary. The vote was unique to the Swiss model of plebiscitary democracy which compels single-issue referendums if 100,000 signatures are collected in an 18-month period.Such direct single-issue votes are unlikely elsewhere in Europe, but newspaper opinion polls in Spain, France and Germany since last week's referendum have shown large majorities supporting a ban on minarets.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Switzerland", "Islam", "France", "World news", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Sarkozy defends Switzerland minaret ban"},{"date": "2009-11-30T00:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss claim passivity, diversity and tolerance as founding values. They have grown rich through trade and banking the world's money. They give shelter to wealthy migrants seeking to escape taxes at home. Their country even houses the offices of many international organisations, including large parts of the UN. But yesterday the Swiss pulled aside their veneer of internationalism, voting heavily in favour of a referendum motion that will change the Swiss constitution to ban the building of minarets.The result \u2013 on a 53% turnout \u2013 should shame Switzerland and worry Europe. Although the vote was ostensibly about minarets, of which there are only four in the whole country, and not even mosques, which can still be built, voters were really being lured to express their views on religion and race.Some things about the campaign were specifically Swiss, principally an Alpine distrust of outsiders which lapsed into racism. No other European country would have accepted with relative equanimity a poster campaign displaying a black-veiled Muslim woman and a forest of missile-like minarets imposed on the pure red and white of the Swiss flag. In Switzerland this monstrosity was endorsed by the country's largest party, although opposed by the rest. The Swiss People's party has tried the trick before, thriving in the 2007 federal election on the back of an even more explicit poster showing three white sheep, standing on the red background of the Swiss flag, kicking out a fourth black one, above the slogan \"for more security\". No one, in the context of the far right, should mistake the provocative nature of a campaign fought in the Nazi colours of red, black and white.Switzerland will suffer as a result of yesterday's vote, its cherished national brand tarnished. But it is too easy to blame the Swiss alone. Many of the things that drove yesterday's vote \u2013 growing opposition to migration, the rise of the far right, widespread hatred and fear of Islam \u2013 apply just as much to other European countries, including Britain. This raises an uncomfortable possibility. Was yesterday's result a product of Swiss exceptionalism, or simply the chance existence in Switzerland of a political system that allows popular referendums? Can we be sure that the people of Austria, France, Britain or the Netherlands would have voted differently, if given the chance?All European countries find the politics of migration painful. Even the new EU president, Herman Van Rompuy, once attacked Turkey's application to join the EU, as it threatened \"fundamental values of Christianity\". Hatred lies just beneath the harmony. Politicians who provoke it threaten to cause terrible harm.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Religion", "Islam", "Herman Van Rompuy", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland: Hatred beneath the harmony"},{"date": "2009-12-01T10:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Though Muslims don't need minarets to worship, the Swiss vote to ban them is a troubling sign of mounting intolerance.Alongside the crescent, the minaret is one of the most instantly recognisable symbols of Islam. However, it's only functional purpose \u2013 to call worshippers to pray \u2013 has, in the modern age, become obsolete. And even then, it is not absolutely necessary, as attested to by the earliest mosques which did not have minarets.That is why, at face value, the Swiss referendum on whether to ban minarets, especially since there are only four of them in the entire country, as Tariq Ramadan points out, seems superficial and pointless. In fact, when my wife first heard the news she wondered whether the Swiss didn't have anything more important to go to the ballot box for.Preposterous as the whole campaign is, especially given that Zurich's oldest minaret is so much a part of the cityscape that most passers-by don't even notice it, it does carry certain ominous undertones.Although mosques don't need minarets to function and Muslims don't need them to worship, the Swiss decision \u2013 by a majority of 57% \u2013 to ban their construction carries enormous symbolic significance. Ironically, it even came on the weekend in which Muslims were celebrating one of their holiest festivals, Eid al-Adha.To be clear, Muslims in Switzerland are still legally entitled to practise their faith. However, the message this vote sends is one that undermines the principle of religious freedom. The Swiss are effectively saying that, even if Muslims have the legal right to gather together for communal prayer, mainstream society wants them to be invisible.In addition, one can't help thinking that for one of the main sponsors of the referendum, the far-right and populist Swiss People's Party (SVP), the heart of the issue is not so much minarets, but Muslims themselves. If it were up to them, I suspect, they would much rather ban Islam than minarets \u2013 but fortunately the law would never allow them to organise such a vote and Swiss voters don't fear Muslims enough to go that far \u2013 judging by some of the statements members of the party made in the run-up to the vote.For example, the SVP's Ulrich Schl\u00fcer described the minaret as \"a symbol of political power, a prelude to the introduction of sharia law\". In this, the SVP is like far-right parties across Europe who subscribe to the preposterous notion of the imminent emergence of a \"Eurabia\", a myth I've deconstructed before.As a sign of the deeper hatred upon which this ban is built \u2013 and a foretaste of things to come if we do not address the issue of intercommunal relations in Europe urgently \u2013 anti-Muslim politicians in other parts of Europe are already jumping on the Swiss bandwagon.The party of the infamous Geert Wilders \u2013 who has already called unsuccessfully for the banning of the Qur'an \u2013 has demanded a similar referendum to be carried out in the Netherlands.Mario Borghezio of Italy's Northern League also called for a vote in Italy, surreally suggesting that: \"The flag of a courageous Switzerland which wants to remain Christian is flying over a near-Islamised Europe.\"Unsurprisingly, the Swiss decision has not gone down well in Arab and Muslim countries. But I offer a similar observation to the one I made at the time of the German hijab murder controversy: troubling and Islamophobic as this vote is, millions of Swiss and other Europeans also find it reprehensible. In addition, it is not a sign that European Muslims are being persecuted. In fact, the Muslim minority in most of Europe enjoys more freedom of faith and conscience than minorities in many Muslim countries.Nevertheless, the vote does fill me with foreboding. If matters are left unchecked, then European Muslims could well one day, become an oppressed or persecuted minority, and the artificial divide between western and Muslim countries could widen until it becomes an unbridgeable chasm.We like to take pride in the fact that we live in the most tolerant times ever. But there were periods in Europe's history where Christianity and Islam actually may have co-existed more harmoniously than they do today. An interesting example of this was Sicily, under both Arab and Norman rule.On the eve of the Swiss minaret referendum, our son, who is of mixed Arab and European background, was born. Although we are sceptical of religion, intend to give him a secular upbringing and let the choice of belief system be his when he comes of age, I hope that by the time Iskander is an adult, he will be able to live comfortably and proudly with his multicultural heritage and not be discriminated against because of it.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Building intolerance in Switzerland | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-12-08T19:06:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy today voiced sympathy for Switzerland's controversial decision to ban the building of Muslim minarets, calling on religious practitioners to avoid \"ostentation\" and \"provocation\" for fear of upsetting others.The French president said he was surprised by the widespread criticism of the outcome of last week's referendum in Switzerland when 57% voted to proscribe the building of new minarets in a country that has four, and is home to 400,000 Muslims.Sarkozy's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, promptly denounced the Swiss decision last week, saying he was shocked and scandalised and calling for the ban to be reversed.But writing in the Le Monde newspaper, Sarkozy defended the Swiss in arguing for the necessity of the contentious debate on national identity he has sponsored in France.\"How can you not be amazed at the reaction that this decision has produced in certain media and political circles in our own country,\" Sarkozy said. \"Instead of condemning the Swiss out of hand, we should try to understand what they meant to express and what so many people in Europe feel, including people in France.\"He was the first national leader in Europe to offer a detailed opinion on a decision that the Swiss government has criticised as discriminatory and probably illegal, if implemented.Sarkozy called for discretion from France's 6 million Muslims, the biggest Muslim community in Europe, in their observance of religion, while pledging to fight all discrimination.\"Christians, Jews, Muslims, all believers regardless of their faith, must refrain from ostentation and provocation and ... practise their religion in humble discretion.\" Muslims would need to find a way of integrating in France \"without conflicting with our social and civic pact\" while moderate Islam would fail if Muslims sought to challenge the country's republican value system or Christian heritage.Sarkozy's intervention in the Swiss dilemma, Europe's first direct vote on Islam, came in the midst of the bout of navel-gazing over French national identity launched by his government last month.Despite much criticism, Sarkozy argued that the Swiss vote showed there was no point in being in denial about such soul-searching. The national identity debate is running in tandem with proposals to ban the burka and critics argue that Sarkozy's initiative has degenerated into a populist proxy debate on immigration, with the president seeking to outflank the extreme right and steal their votes.A major conference on national identity is to be held in Paris in February after the debate moved to parliament today, preceded by town hall meetings and heated internet discussions over the past month. Next month parliament is also to consider whether the burka should be banned and in Marseilles there is dispute over the planned construction of a Grand Mosque with a 25-metre minaret.Martine Aubry, the opposition socialist leader, says Sarkozy is making a calculated attempt to stir xenophobia by calling for the public debates.The Swiss referendum has attracted much criticism, including from the government and the churches in Switzerland. It singled out Islam for restrictions and is seen as discriminatory and in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.But the Swiss procedure has been seized on by far-right politicians in Italy, Austria, and the Netherlands as exemplary. The vote was unique to the Swiss model of plebiscitary democracy which compels single-issue referendums if 100,000 signatures are collected in an 18-month period.Such direct single-issue votes are unlikely elsewhere in Europe, but newspaper opinion polls in Spain, France and Germany since last week's referendum have shown large majorities supporting a ban on minarets.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Switzerland", "Islam", "France", "World news", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Sarkozy defends Switzerland minaret ban"},{"date": "2009-11-30T00:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss claim passivity, diversity and tolerance as founding values. They have grown rich through trade and banking the world's money. They give shelter to wealthy migrants seeking to escape taxes at home. Their country even houses the offices of many international organisations, including large parts of the UN. But yesterday the Swiss pulled aside their veneer of internationalism, voting heavily in favour of a referendum motion that will change the Swiss constitution to ban the building of minarets.The result \u2013 on a 53% turnout \u2013 should shame Switzerland and worry Europe. Although the vote was ostensibly about minarets, of which there are only four in the whole country, and not even mosques, which can still be built, voters were really being lured to express their views on religion and race.Some things about the campaign were specifically Swiss, principally an Alpine distrust of outsiders which lapsed into racism. No other European country would have accepted with relative equanimity a poster campaign displaying a black-veiled Muslim woman and a forest of missile-like minarets imposed on the pure red and white of the Swiss flag. In Switzerland this monstrosity was endorsed by the country's largest party, although opposed by the rest. The Swiss People's party has tried the trick before, thriving in the 2007 federal election on the back of an even more explicit poster showing three white sheep, standing on the red background of the Swiss flag, kicking out a fourth black one, above the slogan \"for more security\". No one, in the context of the far right, should mistake the provocative nature of a campaign fought in the Nazi colours of red, black and white.Switzerland will suffer as a result of yesterday's vote, its cherished national brand tarnished. But it is too easy to blame the Swiss alone. Many of the things that drove yesterday's vote \u2013 growing opposition to migration, the rise of the far right, widespread hatred and fear of Islam \u2013 apply just as much to other European countries, including Britain. This raises an uncomfortable possibility. Was yesterday's result a product of Swiss exceptionalism, or simply the chance existence in Switzerland of a political system that allows popular referendums? Can we be sure that the people of Austria, France, Britain or the Netherlands would have voted differently, if given the chance?All European countries find the politics of migration painful. Even the new EU president, Herman Van Rompuy, once attacked Turkey's application to join the EU, as it threatened \"fundamental values of Christianity\". Hatred lies just beneath the harmony. Politicians who provoke it threaten to cause terrible harm.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Religion", "Islam", "Herman Van Rompuy", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland: Hatred beneath the harmony"},{"date": "2009-10-06T13:14:10Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Roman Polanski has been denied bail from a Swiss prison where he is being held for possible extradition to the United States on an underage sex charge.The Swiss justice ministry refused Polanski's request because of the risk he would flee the country, Folco Galli, a spokesman for the ministry, told the Associated Press.\"We continue to be of the opinion that there is a high risk of flight,\" he said.The appeal was separate from another legal challenge against his arrest submitted by Polanski's lawyers last week. Polanski is expected to be held in custody throughout that appeal and any subsequent challenges from either side.US authorities have being trying to secure Polanski's extradition since he fled in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting have sex with a 13-year-old girl.Under Swiss law the US has 60 days to file a formal extradition request. That request must be examined by the justice ministry, and if approved can be appealed against in a number of courts. That appeal hearing is expected to start in the coming weeks.Galli confirmed that Washington has yet to file a formal request seeking extradition. But he added: \"I assume this is a priority case in the United States.\"Swiss legal experts say Polanski's chances of release are minimal, because he is not Swiss and he already jumped bail.Polanski was accused of raping the girl, after plying her with champagne laced with drugs.He initially faced six charges including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy.He pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse. In exchange, the judge agreed to drop the remaining charges and sentence him to prison for a 90-day psychiatric evaluation.However, he was released after 42 days by an evaluator who deemed him mentally sound and unlikely to offend again.The judge responded by saying he was going to send Polanski back to jail for the remainder of the 90 days and then he would ask Polanski to agree to a \"voluntary deportation\".Polanski fled the US on the day he was scheduled to be sentenced to the additional time.Polanski's arrest sparked contrasting reactions. France and Poland have called for his release, but support for him in Hollywood provoked an angry backlash.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Switzerland", "US news", "Culture", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski refused bail by Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-12-01T10:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Though Muslims don't need minarets to worship, the Swiss vote to ban them is a troubling sign of mounting intolerance.Alongside the crescent, the minaret is one of the most instantly recognisable symbols of Islam. However, it's only functional purpose \u2013 to call worshippers to pray \u2013 has, in the modern age, become obsolete. And even then, it is not absolutely necessary, as attested to by the earliest mosques which did not have minarets.That is why, at face value, the Swiss referendum on whether to ban minarets, especially since there are only four of them in the entire country, as Tariq Ramadan points out, seems superficial and pointless. In fact, when my wife first heard the news she wondered whether the Swiss didn't have anything more important to go to the ballot box for.Preposterous as the whole campaign is, especially given that Zurich's oldest minaret is so much a part of the cityscape that most passers-by don't even notice it, it does carry certain ominous undertones.Although mosques don't need minarets to function and Muslims don't need them to worship, the Swiss decision \u2013 by a majority of 57% \u2013 to ban their construction carries enormous symbolic significance. Ironically, it even came on the weekend in which Muslims were celebrating one of their holiest festivals, Eid al-Adha.To be clear, Muslims in Switzerland are still legally entitled to practise their faith. However, the message this vote sends is one that undermines the principle of religious freedom. The Swiss are effectively saying that, even if Muslims have the legal right to gather together for communal prayer, mainstream society wants them to be invisible.In addition, one can't help thinking that for one of the main sponsors of the referendum, the far-right and populist Swiss People's Party (SVP), the heart of the issue is not so much minarets, but Muslims themselves. If it were up to them, I suspect, they would much rather ban Islam than minarets \u2013 but fortunately the law would never allow them to organise such a vote and Swiss voters don't fear Muslims enough to go that far \u2013 judging by some of the statements members of the party made in the run-up to the vote.For example, the SVP's Ulrich Schl\u00fcer described the minaret as \"a symbol of political power, a prelude to the introduction of sharia law\". In this, the SVP is like far-right parties across Europe who subscribe to the preposterous notion of the imminent emergence of a \"Eurabia\", a myth I've deconstructed before.As a sign of the deeper hatred upon which this ban is built \u2013 and a foretaste of things to come if we do not address the issue of intercommunal relations in Europe urgently \u2013 anti-Muslim politicians in other parts of Europe are already jumping on the Swiss bandwagon.The party of the infamous Geert Wilders \u2013 who has already called unsuccessfully for the banning of the Qur'an \u2013 has demanded a similar referendum to be carried out in the Netherlands.Mario Borghezio of Italy's Northern League also called for a vote in Italy, surreally suggesting that: \"The flag of a courageous Switzerland which wants to remain Christian is flying over a near-Islamised Europe.\"Unsurprisingly, the Swiss decision has not gone down well in Arab and Muslim countries. But I offer a similar observation to the one I made at the time of the German hijab murder controversy: troubling and Islamophobic as this vote is, millions of Swiss and other Europeans also find it reprehensible. In addition, it is not a sign that European Muslims are being persecuted. In fact, the Muslim minority in most of Europe enjoys more freedom of faith and conscience than minorities in many Muslim countries.Nevertheless, the vote does fill me with foreboding. If matters are left unchecked, then European Muslims could well one day, become an oppressed or persecuted minority, and the artificial divide between western and Muslim countries could widen until it becomes an unbridgeable chasm.We like to take pride in the fact that we live in the most tolerant times ever. But there were periods in Europe's history where Christianity and Islam actually may have co-existed more harmoniously than they do today. An interesting example of this was Sicily, under both Arab and Norman rule.On the eve of the Swiss minaret referendum, our son, who is of mixed Arab and European background, was born. Although we are sceptical of religion, intend to give him a secular upbringing and let the choice of belief system be his when he comes of age, I hope that by the time Iskander is an adult, he will be able to live comfortably and proudly with his multicultural heritage and not be discriminated against because of it.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Building intolerance in Switzerland | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-12-08T19:06:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy today voiced sympathy for Switzerland's controversial decision to ban the building of Muslim minarets, calling on religious practitioners to avoid \"ostentation\" and \"provocation\" for fear of upsetting others.The French president said he was surprised by the widespread criticism of the outcome of last week's referendum in Switzerland when 57% voted to proscribe the building of new minarets in a country that has four, and is home to 400,000 Muslims.Sarkozy's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, promptly denounced the Swiss decision last week, saying he was shocked and scandalised and calling for the ban to be reversed.But writing in the Le Monde newspaper, Sarkozy defended the Swiss in arguing for the necessity of the contentious debate on national identity he has sponsored in France.\"How can you not be amazed at the reaction that this decision has produced in certain media and political circles in our own country,\" Sarkozy said. \"Instead of condemning the Swiss out of hand, we should try to understand what they meant to express and what so many people in Europe feel, including people in France.\"He was the first national leader in Europe to offer a detailed opinion on a decision that the Swiss government has criticised as discriminatory and probably illegal, if implemented.Sarkozy called for discretion from France's 6 million Muslims, the biggest Muslim community in Europe, in their observance of religion, while pledging to fight all discrimination.\"Christians, Jews, Muslims, all believers regardless of their faith, must refrain from ostentation and provocation and ... practise their religion in humble discretion.\" Muslims would need to find a way of integrating in France \"without conflicting with our social and civic pact\" while moderate Islam would fail if Muslims sought to challenge the country's republican value system or Christian heritage.Sarkozy's intervention in the Swiss dilemma, Europe's first direct vote on Islam, came in the midst of the bout of navel-gazing over French national identity launched by his government last month.Despite much criticism, Sarkozy argued that the Swiss vote showed there was no point in being in denial about such soul-searching. The national identity debate is running in tandem with proposals to ban the burka and critics argue that Sarkozy's initiative has degenerated into a populist proxy debate on immigration, with the president seeking to outflank the extreme right and steal their votes.A major conference on national identity is to be held in Paris in February after the debate moved to parliament today, preceded by town hall meetings and heated internet discussions over the past month. Next month parliament is also to consider whether the burka should be banned and in Marseilles there is dispute over the planned construction of a Grand Mosque with a 25-metre minaret.Martine Aubry, the opposition socialist leader, says Sarkozy is making a calculated attempt to stir xenophobia by calling for the public debates.The Swiss referendum has attracted much criticism, including from the government and the churches in Switzerland. It singled out Islam for restrictions and is seen as discriminatory and in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.But the Swiss procedure has been seized on by far-right politicians in Italy, Austria, and the Netherlands as exemplary. The vote was unique to the Swiss model of plebiscitary democracy which compels single-issue referendums if 100,000 signatures are collected in an 18-month period.Such direct single-issue votes are unlikely elsewhere in Europe, but newspaper opinion polls in Spain, France and Germany since last week's referendum have shown large majorities supporting a ban on minarets.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Switzerland", "Islam", "France", "World news", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Sarkozy defends Switzerland minaret ban"},{"date": "2009-11-30T00:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss claim passivity, diversity and tolerance as founding values. They have grown rich through trade and banking the world's money. They give shelter to wealthy migrants seeking to escape taxes at home. Their country even houses the offices of many international organisations, including large parts of the UN. But yesterday the Swiss pulled aside their veneer of internationalism, voting heavily in favour of a referendum motion that will change the Swiss constitution to ban the building of minarets.The result \u2013 on a 53% turnout \u2013 should shame Switzerland and worry Europe. Although the vote was ostensibly about minarets, of which there are only four in the whole country, and not even mosques, which can still be built, voters were really being lured to express their views on religion and race.Some things about the campaign were specifically Swiss, principally an Alpine distrust of outsiders which lapsed into racism. No other European country would have accepted with relative equanimity a poster campaign displaying a black-veiled Muslim woman and a forest of missile-like minarets imposed on the pure red and white of the Swiss flag. In Switzerland this monstrosity was endorsed by the country's largest party, although opposed by the rest. The Swiss People's party has tried the trick before, thriving in the 2007 federal election on the back of an even more explicit poster showing three white sheep, standing on the red background of the Swiss flag, kicking out a fourth black one, above the slogan \"for more security\". No one, in the context of the far right, should mistake the provocative nature of a campaign fought in the Nazi colours of red, black and white.Switzerland will suffer as a result of yesterday's vote, its cherished national brand tarnished. But it is too easy to blame the Swiss alone. Many of the things that drove yesterday's vote \u2013 growing opposition to migration, the rise of the far right, widespread hatred and fear of Islam \u2013 apply just as much to other European countries, including Britain. This raises an uncomfortable possibility. Was yesterday's result a product of Swiss exceptionalism, or simply the chance existence in Switzerland of a political system that allows popular referendums? Can we be sure that the people of Austria, France, Britain or the Netherlands would have voted differently, if given the chance?All European countries find the politics of migration painful. Even the new EU president, Herman Van Rompuy, once attacked Turkey's application to join the EU, as it threatened \"fundamental values of Christianity\". Hatred lies just beneath the harmony. Politicians who provoke it threaten to cause terrible harm.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Religion", "Islam", "Herman Van Rompuy", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland: Hatred beneath the harmony"},{"date": "2009-10-06T13:14:10Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Roman Polanski has been denied bail from a Swiss prison where he is being held for possible extradition to the United States on an underage sex charge.The Swiss justice ministry refused Polanski's request because of the risk he would flee the country, Folco Galli, a spokesman for the ministry, told the Associated Press.\"We continue to be of the opinion that there is a high risk of flight,\" he said.The appeal was separate from another legal challenge against his arrest submitted by Polanski's lawyers last week. Polanski is expected to be held in custody throughout that appeal and any subsequent challenges from either side.US authorities have being trying to secure Polanski's extradition since he fled in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting have sex with a 13-year-old girl.Under Swiss law the US has 60 days to file a formal extradition request. That request must be examined by the justice ministry, and if approved can be appealed against in a number of courts. That appeal hearing is expected to start in the coming weeks.Galli confirmed that Washington has yet to file a formal request seeking extradition. But he added: \"I assume this is a priority case in the United States.\"Swiss legal experts say Polanski's chances of release are minimal, because he is not Swiss and he already jumped bail.Polanski was accused of raping the girl, after plying her with champagne laced with drugs.He initially faced six charges including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy.He pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse. In exchange, the judge agreed to drop the remaining charges and sentence him to prison for a 90-day psychiatric evaluation.However, he was released after 42 days by an evaluator who deemed him mentally sound and unlikely to offend again.The judge responded by saying he was going to send Polanski back to jail for the remainder of the 90 days and then he would ask Polanski to agree to a \"voluntary deportation\".Polanski fled the US on the day he was scheduled to be sentenced to the additional time.Polanski's arrest sparked contrasting reactions. France and Poland have called for his release, but support for him in Hollywood provoked an angry backlash.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Switzerland", "US news", "Culture", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski refused bail by Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-10-23T09:21:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The US has asked Switzerland to extradite the director Roman Polanski, who was arrested last month as he arrived in Zurich to attend a film festival.\"The US extradition request is based on a warrant issued by the superior court of the state of California for the county of Los Angeles on 1 February 1978, on which date Polanski had failed to appear before the judge as was required by his bail conditions,\" the Swiss justice department said in a statement.Polanski is expected to appeal if the Swiss government agrees to the extradition request. This week, Switzerland's top criminal court rejected his appeal to be freed from prison, citing a \"high\" risk that he would try to flee.The 76-year-old Oscar-winning director, who holds dual French and Polish citizenship, was arrested at the request of the US when he flew to Switzerland to receive a lifetime achievement prize. The arrest followed a tip-off by Swiss officials to the US authorities, who have been pursuing the director since his admission to the statutory rape of a 13-year-old in 1977.Polanski was accused of plying a teenager with champagne and drugs during a modelling shoot, before raping her. He was initially indicted on six counts, including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy. Polanski pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse and fled in 1978 amid a legal dispute over his sentence.Emails from the Swiss justice office show that it alerted the US office of international affairs (OIA) as to Polanski's presence in Switzerland. The Swiss sent an urgent fax stating that Polanski was expected in Zurich to receive a film award \u2013 as the website of the city's film festival had already announced.The emails, released to the Associated Press, show that on 22 September Swiss officials asked the US if it wanted him arrested. The officials also alerted the Los Angeles district attorney's office, which immediately began drafting an arrest warrant. Polanski was arrested four days later.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "US news", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US asks Switzerland to extradite Roman Polanski"},{"date": "2009-12-01T10:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Though Muslims don't need minarets to worship, the Swiss vote to ban them is a troubling sign of mounting intolerance.Alongside the crescent, the minaret is one of the most instantly recognisable symbols of Islam. However, it's only functional purpose \u2013 to call worshippers to pray \u2013 has, in the modern age, become obsolete. And even then, it is not absolutely necessary, as attested to by the earliest mosques which did not have minarets.That is why, at face value, the Swiss referendum on whether to ban minarets, especially since there are only four of them in the entire country, as Tariq Ramadan points out, seems superficial and pointless. In fact, when my wife first heard the news she wondered whether the Swiss didn't have anything more important to go to the ballot box for.Preposterous as the whole campaign is, especially given that Zurich's oldest minaret is so much a part of the cityscape that most passers-by don't even notice it, it does carry certain ominous undertones.Although mosques don't need minarets to function and Muslims don't need them to worship, the Swiss decision \u2013 by a majority of 57% \u2013 to ban their construction carries enormous symbolic significance. Ironically, it even came on the weekend in which Muslims were celebrating one of their holiest festivals, Eid al-Adha.To be clear, Muslims in Switzerland are still legally entitled to practise their faith. However, the message this vote sends is one that undermines the principle of religious freedom. The Swiss are effectively saying that, even if Muslims have the legal right to gather together for communal prayer, mainstream society wants them to be invisible.In addition, one can't help thinking that for one of the main sponsors of the referendum, the far-right and populist Swiss People's Party (SVP), the heart of the issue is not so much minarets, but Muslims themselves. If it were up to them, I suspect, they would much rather ban Islam than minarets \u2013 but fortunately the law would never allow them to organise such a vote and Swiss voters don't fear Muslims enough to go that far \u2013 judging by some of the statements members of the party made in the run-up to the vote.For example, the SVP's Ulrich Schl\u00fcer described the minaret as \"a symbol of political power, a prelude to the introduction of sharia law\". In this, the SVP is like far-right parties across Europe who subscribe to the preposterous notion of the imminent emergence of a \"Eurabia\", a myth I've deconstructed before.As a sign of the deeper hatred upon which this ban is built \u2013 and a foretaste of things to come if we do not address the issue of intercommunal relations in Europe urgently \u2013 anti-Muslim politicians in other parts of Europe are already jumping on the Swiss bandwagon.The party of the infamous Geert Wilders \u2013 who has already called unsuccessfully for the banning of the Qur'an \u2013 has demanded a similar referendum to be carried out in the Netherlands.Mario Borghezio of Italy's Northern League also called for a vote in Italy, surreally suggesting that: \"The flag of a courageous Switzerland which wants to remain Christian is flying over a near-Islamised Europe.\"Unsurprisingly, the Swiss decision has not gone down well in Arab and Muslim countries. But I offer a similar observation to the one I made at the time of the German hijab murder controversy: troubling and Islamophobic as this vote is, millions of Swiss and other Europeans also find it reprehensible. In addition, it is not a sign that European Muslims are being persecuted. In fact, the Muslim minority in most of Europe enjoys more freedom of faith and conscience than minorities in many Muslim countries.Nevertheless, the vote does fill me with foreboding. If matters are left unchecked, then European Muslims could well one day, become an oppressed or persecuted minority, and the artificial divide between western and Muslim countries could widen until it becomes an unbridgeable chasm.We like to take pride in the fact that we live in the most tolerant times ever. But there were periods in Europe's history where Christianity and Islam actually may have co-existed more harmoniously than they do today. An interesting example of this was Sicily, under both Arab and Norman rule.On the eve of the Swiss minaret referendum, our son, who is of mixed Arab and European background, was born. Although we are sceptical of religion, intend to give him a secular upbringing and let the choice of belief system be his when he comes of age, I hope that by the time Iskander is an adult, he will be able to live comfortably and proudly with his multicultural heritage and not be discriminated against because of it.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Building intolerance in Switzerland | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-12-08T19:06:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy today voiced sympathy for Switzerland's controversial decision to ban the building of Muslim minarets, calling on religious practitioners to avoid \"ostentation\" and \"provocation\" for fear of upsetting others.The French president said he was surprised by the widespread criticism of the outcome of last week's referendum in Switzerland when 57% voted to proscribe the building of new minarets in a country that has four, and is home to 400,000 Muslims.Sarkozy's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, promptly denounced the Swiss decision last week, saying he was shocked and scandalised and calling for the ban to be reversed.But writing in the Le Monde newspaper, Sarkozy defended the Swiss in arguing for the necessity of the contentious debate on national identity he has sponsored in France.\"How can you not be amazed at the reaction that this decision has produced in certain media and political circles in our own country,\" Sarkozy said. \"Instead of condemning the Swiss out of hand, we should try to understand what they meant to express and what so many people in Europe feel, including people in France.\"He was the first national leader in Europe to offer a detailed opinion on a decision that the Swiss government has criticised as discriminatory and probably illegal, if implemented.Sarkozy called for discretion from France's 6 million Muslims, the biggest Muslim community in Europe, in their observance of religion, while pledging to fight all discrimination.\"Christians, Jews, Muslims, all believers regardless of their faith, must refrain from ostentation and provocation and ... practise their religion in humble discretion.\" Muslims would need to find a way of integrating in France \"without conflicting with our social and civic pact\" while moderate Islam would fail if Muslims sought to challenge the country's republican value system or Christian heritage.Sarkozy's intervention in the Swiss dilemma, Europe's first direct vote on Islam, came in the midst of the bout of navel-gazing over French national identity launched by his government last month.Despite much criticism, Sarkozy argued that the Swiss vote showed there was no point in being in denial about such soul-searching. The national identity debate is running in tandem with proposals to ban the burka and critics argue that Sarkozy's initiative has degenerated into a populist proxy debate on immigration, with the president seeking to outflank the extreme right and steal their votes.A major conference on national identity is to be held in Paris in February after the debate moved to parliament today, preceded by town hall meetings and heated internet discussions over the past month. Next month parliament is also to consider whether the burka should be banned and in Marseilles there is dispute over the planned construction of a Grand Mosque with a 25-metre minaret.Martine Aubry, the opposition socialist leader, says Sarkozy is making a calculated attempt to stir xenophobia by calling for the public debates.The Swiss referendum has attracted much criticism, including from the government and the churches in Switzerland. It singled out Islam for restrictions and is seen as discriminatory and in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.But the Swiss procedure has been seized on by far-right politicians in Italy, Austria, and the Netherlands as exemplary. The vote was unique to the Swiss model of plebiscitary democracy which compels single-issue referendums if 100,000 signatures are collected in an 18-month period.Such direct single-issue votes are unlikely elsewhere in Europe, but newspaper opinion polls in Spain, France and Germany since last week's referendum have shown large majorities supporting a ban on minarets.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Switzerland", "Islam", "France", "World news", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Sarkozy defends Switzerland minaret ban"},{"date": "2009-11-30T00:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss claim passivity, diversity and tolerance as founding values. They have grown rich through trade and banking the world's money. They give shelter to wealthy migrants seeking to escape taxes at home. Their country even houses the offices of many international organisations, including large parts of the UN. But yesterday the Swiss pulled aside their veneer of internationalism, voting heavily in favour of a referendum motion that will change the Swiss constitution to ban the building of minarets.The result \u2013 on a 53% turnout \u2013 should shame Switzerland and worry Europe. Although the vote was ostensibly about minarets, of which there are only four in the whole country, and not even mosques, which can still be built, voters were really being lured to express their views on religion and race.Some things about the campaign were specifically Swiss, principally an Alpine distrust of outsiders which lapsed into racism. No other European country would have accepted with relative equanimity a poster campaign displaying a black-veiled Muslim woman and a forest of missile-like minarets imposed on the pure red and white of the Swiss flag. In Switzerland this monstrosity was endorsed by the country's largest party, although opposed by the rest. The Swiss People's party has tried the trick before, thriving in the 2007 federal election on the back of an even more explicit poster showing three white sheep, standing on the red background of the Swiss flag, kicking out a fourth black one, above the slogan \"for more security\". No one, in the context of the far right, should mistake the provocative nature of a campaign fought in the Nazi colours of red, black and white.Switzerland will suffer as a result of yesterday's vote, its cherished national brand tarnished. But it is too easy to blame the Swiss alone. Many of the things that drove yesterday's vote \u2013 growing opposition to migration, the rise of the far right, widespread hatred and fear of Islam \u2013 apply just as much to other European countries, including Britain. This raises an uncomfortable possibility. Was yesterday's result a product of Swiss exceptionalism, or simply the chance existence in Switzerland of a political system that allows popular referendums? Can we be sure that the people of Austria, France, Britain or the Netherlands would have voted differently, if given the chance?All European countries find the politics of migration painful. Even the new EU president, Herman Van Rompuy, once attacked Turkey's application to join the EU, as it threatened \"fundamental values of Christianity\". Hatred lies just beneath the harmony. Politicians who provoke it threaten to cause terrible harm.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Religion", "Islam", "Herman Van Rompuy", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland: Hatred beneath the harmony"},{"date": "2009-10-06T13:14:10Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Roman Polanski has been denied bail from a Swiss prison where he is being held for possible extradition to the United States on an underage sex charge.The Swiss justice ministry refused Polanski's request because of the risk he would flee the country, Folco Galli, a spokesman for the ministry, told the Associated Press.\"We continue to be of the opinion that there is a high risk of flight,\" he said.The appeal was separate from another legal challenge against his arrest submitted by Polanski's lawyers last week. Polanski is expected to be held in custody throughout that appeal and any subsequent challenges from either side.US authorities have being trying to secure Polanski's extradition since he fled in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting have sex with a 13-year-old girl.Under Swiss law the US has 60 days to file a formal extradition request. That request must be examined by the justice ministry, and if approved can be appealed against in a number of courts. That appeal hearing is expected to start in the coming weeks.Galli confirmed that Washington has yet to file a formal request seeking extradition. But he added: \"I assume this is a priority case in the United States.\"Swiss legal experts say Polanski's chances of release are minimal, because he is not Swiss and he already jumped bail.Polanski was accused of raping the girl, after plying her with champagne laced with drugs.He initially faced six charges including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy.He pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse. In exchange, the judge agreed to drop the remaining charges and sentence him to prison for a 90-day psychiatric evaluation.However, he was released after 42 days by an evaluator who deemed him mentally sound and unlikely to offend again.The judge responded by saying he was going to send Polanski back to jail for the remainder of the 90 days and then he would ask Polanski to agree to a \"voluntary deportation\".Polanski fled the US on the day he was scheduled to be sentenced to the additional time.Polanski's arrest sparked contrasting reactions. France and Poland have called for his release, but support for him in Hollywood provoked an angry backlash.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Switzerland", "US news", "Culture", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski refused bail by Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-10-23T09:21:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The US has asked Switzerland to extradite the director Roman Polanski, who was arrested last month as he arrived in Zurich to attend a film festival.\"The US extradition request is based on a warrant issued by the superior court of the state of California for the county of Los Angeles on 1 February 1978, on which date Polanski had failed to appear before the judge as was required by his bail conditions,\" the Swiss justice department said in a statement.Polanski is expected to appeal if the Swiss government agrees to the extradition request. This week, Switzerland's top criminal court rejected his appeal to be freed from prison, citing a \"high\" risk that he would try to flee.The 76-year-old Oscar-winning director, who holds dual French and Polish citizenship, was arrested at the request of the US when he flew to Switzerland to receive a lifetime achievement prize. The arrest followed a tip-off by Swiss officials to the US authorities, who have been pursuing the director since his admission to the statutory rape of a 13-year-old in 1977.Polanski was accused of plying a teenager with champagne and drugs during a modelling shoot, before raping her. He was initially indicted on six counts, including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy. Polanski pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse and fled in 1978 amid a legal dispute over his sentence.Emails from the Swiss justice office show that it alerted the US office of international affairs (OIA) as to Polanski's presence in Switzerland. The Swiss sent an urgent fax stating that Polanski was expected in Zurich to receive a film award \u2013 as the website of the city's film festival had already announced.The emails, released to the Associated Press, show that on 22 September Swiss officials asked the US if it wanted him arrested. The officials also alerted the Los Angeles district attorney's office, which immediately began drafting an arrest warrant. Polanski was arrested four days later.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "US news", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US asks Switzerland to extradite Roman Polanski"},{"date": "2009-12-07T19:13:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss canton of Uri is more used to holidaymakers flocking to see its stunning Alpine vistas and the statue, in the capital Altdorf, dedicated to national hero William Tell.But the diminutive state could be readying itself for a different kind of influx next year after it was claimed to be the subject of a DVD, also featuring fellow cantons Geneva and Zurich, that is being circulated in the City. It is claimed the cantons are trying to poach disaffected London bankers who may be looking for a fresh start in a country where bonuses attract less scrutiny \u2013 and, crucially, lower levels of tax.The DVD's existence could not be verified today, but one could hazard a guess at the contents. While it is likely to highlight opportunities for dog sledding, mountain biking and cable car rides in the environs of Altdorf, even the canton's official tourism website carries a special section highlighting the \"attractive tax conditions\". The website suggests a Uri-based banker who earns around \u00a3180,000, would attract income tax at rate of just 11%. It also flags that tax applied to an individual's savings is one of the lowest rates in Switzerland at 0.001%.The generous regime also allows qualifying \"resident aliens\" to pay income tax as a one-off sum that is based on living expenses.There is nothing new in the attractions of Switzerland as a financial centre, given its benevolent tax laws and reputation for discretion. However, the industry has begun to branch out from traditional centres such as Geneva and Zurich to quieter spots such as Pfaffikon, a small Swiss town on the shores of lake Zurich. Pfaffikon has become a mecca for hedge funds including Man Group, which also has a base there.With 1,000 investment bankers already estimated to have resigned from state-controlled Royal Bank of Scotland alone, movement has already begun in the sector. Bankers are said to follow the deals and experts predict America, the Middle-East and China would also be high on the list for those without family ties to the UK.It remains to be seen whether they heed the Swiss siren call \u2013 as Uri's website puts it: \"See you soon in Uri.\"", "tags": ["Banking", "Business", "Switzerland", "Financial crisis", "Banks and building societies", "Tax", "Money", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland looks to lure disaffected bankers with tempting tax laws"},{"date": "2009-12-01T10:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Though Muslims don't need minarets to worship, the Swiss vote to ban them is a troubling sign of mounting intolerance.Alongside the crescent, the minaret is one of the most instantly recognisable symbols of Islam. However, it's only functional purpose \u2013 to call worshippers to pray \u2013 has, in the modern age, become obsolete. And even then, it is not absolutely necessary, as attested to by the earliest mosques which did not have minarets.That is why, at face value, the Swiss referendum on whether to ban minarets, especially since there are only four of them in the entire country, as Tariq Ramadan points out, seems superficial and pointless. In fact, when my wife first heard the news she wondered whether the Swiss didn't have anything more important to go to the ballot box for.Preposterous as the whole campaign is, especially given that Zurich's oldest minaret is so much a part of the cityscape that most passers-by don't even notice it, it does carry certain ominous undertones.Although mosques don't need minarets to function and Muslims don't need them to worship, the Swiss decision \u2013 by a majority of 57% \u2013 to ban their construction carries enormous symbolic significance. Ironically, it even came on the weekend in which Muslims were celebrating one of their holiest festivals, Eid al-Adha.To be clear, Muslims in Switzerland are still legally entitled to practise their faith. However, the message this vote sends is one that undermines the principle of religious freedom. The Swiss are effectively saying that, even if Muslims have the legal right to gather together for communal prayer, mainstream society wants them to be invisible.In addition, one can't help thinking that for one of the main sponsors of the referendum, the far-right and populist Swiss People's Party (SVP), the heart of the issue is not so much minarets, but Muslims themselves. If it were up to them, I suspect, they would much rather ban Islam than minarets \u2013 but fortunately the law would never allow them to organise such a vote and Swiss voters don't fear Muslims enough to go that far \u2013 judging by some of the statements members of the party made in the run-up to the vote.For example, the SVP's Ulrich Schl\u00fcer described the minaret as \"a symbol of political power, a prelude to the introduction of sharia law\". In this, the SVP is like far-right parties across Europe who subscribe to the preposterous notion of the imminent emergence of a \"Eurabia\", a myth I've deconstructed before.As a sign of the deeper hatred upon which this ban is built \u2013 and a foretaste of things to come if we do not address the issue of intercommunal relations in Europe urgently \u2013 anti-Muslim politicians in other parts of Europe are already jumping on the Swiss bandwagon.The party of the infamous Geert Wilders \u2013 who has already called unsuccessfully for the banning of the Qur'an \u2013 has demanded a similar referendum to be carried out in the Netherlands.Mario Borghezio of Italy's Northern League also called for a vote in Italy, surreally suggesting that: \"The flag of a courageous Switzerland which wants to remain Christian is flying over a near-Islamised Europe.\"Unsurprisingly, the Swiss decision has not gone down well in Arab and Muslim countries. But I offer a similar observation to the one I made at the time of the German hijab murder controversy: troubling and Islamophobic as this vote is, millions of Swiss and other Europeans also find it reprehensible. In addition, it is not a sign that European Muslims are being persecuted. In fact, the Muslim minority in most of Europe enjoys more freedom of faith and conscience than minorities in many Muslim countries.Nevertheless, the vote does fill me with foreboding. If matters are left unchecked, then European Muslims could well one day, become an oppressed or persecuted minority, and the artificial divide between western and Muslim countries could widen until it becomes an unbridgeable chasm.We like to take pride in the fact that we live in the most tolerant times ever. But there were periods in Europe's history where Christianity and Islam actually may have co-existed more harmoniously than they do today. An interesting example of this was Sicily, under both Arab and Norman rule.On the eve of the Swiss minaret referendum, our son, who is of mixed Arab and European background, was born. Although we are sceptical of religion, intend to give him a secular upbringing and let the choice of belief system be his when he comes of age, I hope that by the time Iskander is an adult, he will be able to live comfortably and proudly with his multicultural heritage and not be discriminated against because of it.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Building intolerance in Switzerland | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-12-08T19:06:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy today voiced sympathy for Switzerland's controversial decision to ban the building of Muslim minarets, calling on religious practitioners to avoid \"ostentation\" and \"provocation\" for fear of upsetting others.The French president said he was surprised by the widespread criticism of the outcome of last week's referendum in Switzerland when 57% voted to proscribe the building of new minarets in a country that has four, and is home to 400,000 Muslims.Sarkozy's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, promptly denounced the Swiss decision last week, saying he was shocked and scandalised and calling for the ban to be reversed.But writing in the Le Monde newspaper, Sarkozy defended the Swiss in arguing for the necessity of the contentious debate on national identity he has sponsored in France.\"How can you not be amazed at the reaction that this decision has produced in certain media and political circles in our own country,\" Sarkozy said. \"Instead of condemning the Swiss out of hand, we should try to understand what they meant to express and what so many people in Europe feel, including people in France.\"He was the first national leader in Europe to offer a detailed opinion on a decision that the Swiss government has criticised as discriminatory and probably illegal, if implemented.Sarkozy called for discretion from France's 6 million Muslims, the biggest Muslim community in Europe, in their observance of religion, while pledging to fight all discrimination.\"Christians, Jews, Muslims, all believers regardless of their faith, must refrain from ostentation and provocation and ... practise their religion in humble discretion.\" Muslims would need to find a way of integrating in France \"without conflicting with our social and civic pact\" while moderate Islam would fail if Muslims sought to challenge the country's republican value system or Christian heritage.Sarkozy's intervention in the Swiss dilemma, Europe's first direct vote on Islam, came in the midst of the bout of navel-gazing over French national identity launched by his government last month.Despite much criticism, Sarkozy argued that the Swiss vote showed there was no point in being in denial about such soul-searching. The national identity debate is running in tandem with proposals to ban the burka and critics argue that Sarkozy's initiative has degenerated into a populist proxy debate on immigration, with the president seeking to outflank the extreme right and steal their votes.A major conference on national identity is to be held in Paris in February after the debate moved to parliament today, preceded by town hall meetings and heated internet discussions over the past month. Next month parliament is also to consider whether the burka should be banned and in Marseilles there is dispute over the planned construction of a Grand Mosque with a 25-metre minaret.Martine Aubry, the opposition socialist leader, says Sarkozy is making a calculated attempt to stir xenophobia by calling for the public debates.The Swiss referendum has attracted much criticism, including from the government and the churches in Switzerland. It singled out Islam for restrictions and is seen as discriminatory and in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.But the Swiss procedure has been seized on by far-right politicians in Italy, Austria, and the Netherlands as exemplary. The vote was unique to the Swiss model of plebiscitary democracy which compels single-issue referendums if 100,000 signatures are collected in an 18-month period.Such direct single-issue votes are unlikely elsewhere in Europe, but newspaper opinion polls in Spain, France and Germany since last week's referendum have shown large majorities supporting a ban on minarets.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Switzerland", "Islam", "France", "World news", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Sarkozy defends Switzerland minaret ban"},{"date": "2009-11-30T00:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss claim passivity, diversity and tolerance as founding values. They have grown rich through trade and banking the world's money. They give shelter to wealthy migrants seeking to escape taxes at home. Their country even houses the offices of many international organisations, including large parts of the UN. But yesterday the Swiss pulled aside their veneer of internationalism, voting heavily in favour of a referendum motion that will change the Swiss constitution to ban the building of minarets.The result \u2013 on a 53% turnout \u2013 should shame Switzerland and worry Europe. Although the vote was ostensibly about minarets, of which there are only four in the whole country, and not even mosques, which can still be built, voters were really being lured to express their views on religion and race.Some things about the campaign were specifically Swiss, principally an Alpine distrust of outsiders which lapsed into racism. No other European country would have accepted with relative equanimity a poster campaign displaying a black-veiled Muslim woman and a forest of missile-like minarets imposed on the pure red and white of the Swiss flag. In Switzerland this monstrosity was endorsed by the country's largest party, although opposed by the rest. The Swiss People's party has tried the trick before, thriving in the 2007 federal election on the back of an even more explicit poster showing three white sheep, standing on the red background of the Swiss flag, kicking out a fourth black one, above the slogan \"for more security\". No one, in the context of the far right, should mistake the provocative nature of a campaign fought in the Nazi colours of red, black and white.Switzerland will suffer as a result of yesterday's vote, its cherished national brand tarnished. But it is too easy to blame the Swiss alone. Many of the things that drove yesterday's vote \u2013 growing opposition to migration, the rise of the far right, widespread hatred and fear of Islam \u2013 apply just as much to other European countries, including Britain. This raises an uncomfortable possibility. Was yesterday's result a product of Swiss exceptionalism, or simply the chance existence in Switzerland of a political system that allows popular referendums? Can we be sure that the people of Austria, France, Britain or the Netherlands would have voted differently, if given the chance?All European countries find the politics of migration painful. Even the new EU president, Herman Van Rompuy, once attacked Turkey's application to join the EU, as it threatened \"fundamental values of Christianity\". Hatred lies just beneath the harmony. Politicians who provoke it threaten to cause terrible harm.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Religion", "Islam", "Herman Van Rompuy", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland: Hatred beneath the harmony"},{"date": "2009-10-06T13:14:10Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Roman Polanski has been denied bail from a Swiss prison where he is being held for possible extradition to the United States on an underage sex charge.The Swiss justice ministry refused Polanski's request because of the risk he would flee the country, Folco Galli, a spokesman for the ministry, told the Associated Press.\"We continue to be of the opinion that there is a high risk of flight,\" he said.The appeal was separate from another legal challenge against his arrest submitted by Polanski's lawyers last week. Polanski is expected to be held in custody throughout that appeal and any subsequent challenges from either side.US authorities have being trying to secure Polanski's extradition since he fled in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting have sex with a 13-year-old girl.Under Swiss law the US has 60 days to file a formal extradition request. That request must be examined by the justice ministry, and if approved can be appealed against in a number of courts. That appeal hearing is expected to start in the coming weeks.Galli confirmed that Washington has yet to file a formal request seeking extradition. But he added: \"I assume this is a priority case in the United States.\"Swiss legal experts say Polanski's chances of release are minimal, because he is not Swiss and he already jumped bail.Polanski was accused of raping the girl, after plying her with champagne laced with drugs.He initially faced six charges including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy.He pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse. In exchange, the judge agreed to drop the remaining charges and sentence him to prison for a 90-day psychiatric evaluation.However, he was released after 42 days by an evaluator who deemed him mentally sound and unlikely to offend again.The judge responded by saying he was going to send Polanski back to jail for the remainder of the 90 days and then he would ask Polanski to agree to a \"voluntary deportation\".Polanski fled the US on the day he was scheduled to be sentenced to the additional time.Polanski's arrest sparked contrasting reactions. France and Poland have called for his release, but support for him in Hollywood provoked an angry backlash.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Switzerland", "US news", "Culture", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski refused bail by Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-10-23T09:21:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The US has asked Switzerland to extradite the director Roman Polanski, who was arrested last month as he arrived in Zurich to attend a film festival.\"The US extradition request is based on a warrant issued by the superior court of the state of California for the county of Los Angeles on 1 February 1978, on which date Polanski had failed to appear before the judge as was required by his bail conditions,\" the Swiss justice department said in a statement.Polanski is expected to appeal if the Swiss government agrees to the extradition request. This week, Switzerland's top criminal court rejected his appeal to be freed from prison, citing a \"high\" risk that he would try to flee.The 76-year-old Oscar-winning director, who holds dual French and Polish citizenship, was arrested at the request of the US when he flew to Switzerland to receive a lifetime achievement prize. The arrest followed a tip-off by Swiss officials to the US authorities, who have been pursuing the director since his admission to the statutory rape of a 13-year-old in 1977.Polanski was accused of plying a teenager with champagne and drugs during a modelling shoot, before raping her. He was initially indicted on six counts, including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy. Polanski pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse and fled in 1978 amid a legal dispute over his sentence.Emails from the Swiss justice office show that it alerted the US office of international affairs (OIA) as to Polanski's presence in Switzerland. The Swiss sent an urgent fax stating that Polanski was expected in Zurich to receive a film award \u2013 as the website of the city's film festival had already announced.The emails, released to the Associated Press, show that on 22 September Swiss officials asked the US if it wanted him arrested. The officials also alerted the Los Angeles district attorney's office, which immediately began drafting an arrest warrant. Polanski was arrested four days later.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "US news", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US asks Switzerland to extradite Roman Polanski"},{"date": "2009-12-07T19:13:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss canton of Uri is more used to holidaymakers flocking to see its stunning Alpine vistas and the statue, in the capital Altdorf, dedicated to national hero William Tell.But the diminutive state could be readying itself for a different kind of influx next year after it was claimed to be the subject of a DVD, also featuring fellow cantons Geneva and Zurich, that is being circulated in the City. It is claimed the cantons are trying to poach disaffected London bankers who may be looking for a fresh start in a country where bonuses attract less scrutiny \u2013 and, crucially, lower levels of tax.The DVD's existence could not be verified today, but one could hazard a guess at the contents. While it is likely to highlight opportunities for dog sledding, mountain biking and cable car rides in the environs of Altdorf, even the canton's official tourism website carries a special section highlighting the \"attractive tax conditions\". The website suggests a Uri-based banker who earns around \u00a3180,000, would attract income tax at rate of just 11%. It also flags that tax applied to an individual's savings is one of the lowest rates in Switzerland at 0.001%.The generous regime also allows qualifying \"resident aliens\" to pay income tax as a one-off sum that is based on living expenses.There is nothing new in the attractions of Switzerland as a financial centre, given its benevolent tax laws and reputation for discretion. However, the industry has begun to branch out from traditional centres such as Geneva and Zurich to quieter spots such as Pfaffikon, a small Swiss town on the shores of lake Zurich. Pfaffikon has become a mecca for hedge funds including Man Group, which also has a base there.With 1,000 investment bankers already estimated to have resigned from state-controlled Royal Bank of Scotland alone, movement has already begun in the sector. Bankers are said to follow the deals and experts predict America, the Middle-East and China would also be high on the list for those without family ties to the UK.It remains to be seen whether they heed the Swiss siren call \u2013 as Uri's website puts it: \"See you soon in Uri.\"", "tags": ["Banking", "Business", "Switzerland", "Financial crisis", "Banks and building societies", "Tax", "Money", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland looks to lure disaffected bankers with tempting tax laws"},{"date": "2009-11-23T18:28:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss police are investigating a crash in which a pensioner was seriously injured when his car was hit by a Lamborghini sports car being driven by a young Russian man who was allegedly racing three others along the banks of Lake Geneva.The driver of the Lamborghini Murci\u00e9lago was one of a group who set off from a Geneva hotel at 11.20pm last Thursday in four luxury cars including a \u20ac1.4m (\u00a31.2m) Bugatti Veyron. They were said to have driven at speeds in excess of 124mph on the road between Geneva and Lausanne.According to Swiss police, the drivers were frantically overtaking each other. \"It was like a grand prix,\" one witness said. The unnamed 22-year-old driver of the Lamborghini eventually ploughed into a VW Golf, pitching it 50 metres across the road. Its driver, a 70-year-old German pensioner, was severely injured in the crash.The Russian was said to have then staggered out of his wrecked car, after which his friends picked him up and fled the scene. Police later arrested all four drivers. According to the Swiss newspaper Tribune de Gen\u00e9ve, tests showed that the driver of the Lamborghini was drunk.The case has thrown a spotlight on Russia's so-called \"golden youth\" \u2013 the children of Russian politicians, diplomats and mega-rich oligarchs. Today Moscow's newspapers pondered why these young Russians were so much more appalling than their western counterparts.Dmitry Rogozin \u2013 Moscow's outspoken ambassador to Nato \u2013 said that the reported antics of the four young Russians had severely dented the country's reputation abroad. \"The first generation of our 'new Russians' are behaving like complete prats,\" he told the TV station Vesti-24 today. \"We are talking about a golden generation who are not embarrassed to spend \u20ac100 on a cup of tea, or order a risotto costing \u20ac300,\" he added.Rogozin said the behaviour of rich Russians who descend every year on the French ski resort of Courchevel during New Year was now so embarrassing that all the other foreigners run away.\"Our [countrymen] love anything glamorous, anything expensive and anything shiny,\" he lamented. \"The offspring of our top-ranking bureaucrats and millionaires behave in exactly the same way in Courchevel as those who had the car accident.\"Switzerland has long been a favourite playground for affluent Russians \u2013 as well as for Lenin who lived in exile there in the years immediately before the Bolshevik Revolution. Many Russian diplomats live and work in Switzerland. The country is also a popular destination for Russians seeking medical treatment, and a place to hide their money.Many wealthy Russians send their children to expensive private Swiss schools. Their aim is not just to secure an advantageous education for their sons and daughters but also to get their hands on a Swiss passport \u2013 which is granted more rapidly to under-18s from overseas in full-time Swiss education.Swiss police said the Lamborghini driver was recovering in hospital. Officials say he has a residence permit for the canton of Geneva. His friends were apparently visiting from Russia.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russian Lamborghini driver crashes in Switzerland while allegedly racing"},{"date": "2009-12-01T10:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Though Muslims don't need minarets to worship, the Swiss vote to ban them is a troubling sign of mounting intolerance.Alongside the crescent, the minaret is one of the most instantly recognisable symbols of Islam. However, it's only functional purpose \u2013 to call worshippers to pray \u2013 has, in the modern age, become obsolete. And even then, it is not absolutely necessary, as attested to by the earliest mosques which did not have minarets.That is why, at face value, the Swiss referendum on whether to ban minarets, especially since there are only four of them in the entire country, as Tariq Ramadan points out, seems superficial and pointless. In fact, when my wife first heard the news she wondered whether the Swiss didn't have anything more important to go to the ballot box for.Preposterous as the whole campaign is, especially given that Zurich's oldest minaret is so much a part of the cityscape that most passers-by don't even notice it, it does carry certain ominous undertones.Although mosques don't need minarets to function and Muslims don't need them to worship, the Swiss decision \u2013 by a majority of 57% \u2013 to ban their construction carries enormous symbolic significance. Ironically, it even came on the weekend in which Muslims were celebrating one of their holiest festivals, Eid al-Adha.To be clear, Muslims in Switzerland are still legally entitled to practise their faith. However, the message this vote sends is one that undermines the principle of religious freedom. The Swiss are effectively saying that, even if Muslims have the legal right to gather together for communal prayer, mainstream society wants them to be invisible.In addition, one can't help thinking that for one of the main sponsors of the referendum, the far-right and populist Swiss People's Party (SVP), the heart of the issue is not so much minarets, but Muslims themselves. If it were up to them, I suspect, they would much rather ban Islam than minarets \u2013 but fortunately the law would never allow them to organise such a vote and Swiss voters don't fear Muslims enough to go that far \u2013 judging by some of the statements members of the party made in the run-up to the vote.For example, the SVP's Ulrich Schl\u00fcer described the minaret as \"a symbol of political power, a prelude to the introduction of sharia law\". In this, the SVP is like far-right parties across Europe who subscribe to the preposterous notion of the imminent emergence of a \"Eurabia\", a myth I've deconstructed before.As a sign of the deeper hatred upon which this ban is built \u2013 and a foretaste of things to come if we do not address the issue of intercommunal relations in Europe urgently \u2013 anti-Muslim politicians in other parts of Europe are already jumping on the Swiss bandwagon.The party of the infamous Geert Wilders \u2013 who has already called unsuccessfully for the banning of the Qur'an \u2013 has demanded a similar referendum to be carried out in the Netherlands.Mario Borghezio of Italy's Northern League also called for a vote in Italy, surreally suggesting that: \"The flag of a courageous Switzerland which wants to remain Christian is flying over a near-Islamised Europe.\"Unsurprisingly, the Swiss decision has not gone down well in Arab and Muslim countries. But I offer a similar observation to the one I made at the time of the German hijab murder controversy: troubling and Islamophobic as this vote is, millions of Swiss and other Europeans also find it reprehensible. In addition, it is not a sign that European Muslims are being persecuted. In fact, the Muslim minority in most of Europe enjoys more freedom of faith and conscience than minorities in many Muslim countries.Nevertheless, the vote does fill me with foreboding. If matters are left unchecked, then European Muslims could well one day, become an oppressed or persecuted minority, and the artificial divide between western and Muslim countries could widen until it becomes an unbridgeable chasm.We like to take pride in the fact that we live in the most tolerant times ever. But there were periods in Europe's history where Christianity and Islam actually may have co-existed more harmoniously than they do today. An interesting example of this was Sicily, under both Arab and Norman rule.On the eve of the Swiss minaret referendum, our son, who is of mixed Arab and European background, was born. Although we are sceptical of religion, intend to give him a secular upbringing and let the choice of belief system be his when he comes of age, I hope that by the time Iskander is an adult, he will be able to live comfortably and proudly with his multicultural heritage and not be discriminated against because of it.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Religion", "Islam", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Building intolerance in Switzerland | Khaled Diab"},{"date": "2009-12-08T19:06:31Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Nicolas Sarkozy today voiced sympathy for Switzerland's controversial decision to ban the building of Muslim minarets, calling on religious practitioners to avoid \"ostentation\" and \"provocation\" for fear of upsetting others.The French president said he was surprised by the widespread criticism of the outcome of last week's referendum in Switzerland when 57% voted to proscribe the building of new minarets in a country that has four, and is home to 400,000 Muslims.Sarkozy's foreign minister, Bernard Kouchner, promptly denounced the Swiss decision last week, saying he was shocked and scandalised and calling for the ban to be reversed.But writing in the Le Monde newspaper, Sarkozy defended the Swiss in arguing for the necessity of the contentious debate on national identity he has sponsored in France.\"How can you not be amazed at the reaction that this decision has produced in certain media and political circles in our own country,\" Sarkozy said. \"Instead of condemning the Swiss out of hand, we should try to understand what they meant to express and what so many people in Europe feel, including people in France.\"He was the first national leader in Europe to offer a detailed opinion on a decision that the Swiss government has criticised as discriminatory and probably illegal, if implemented.Sarkozy called for discretion from France's 6 million Muslims, the biggest Muslim community in Europe, in their observance of religion, while pledging to fight all discrimination.\"Christians, Jews, Muslims, all believers regardless of their faith, must refrain from ostentation and provocation and ... practise their religion in humble discretion.\" Muslims would need to find a way of integrating in France \"without conflicting with our social and civic pact\" while moderate Islam would fail if Muslims sought to challenge the country's republican value system or Christian heritage.Sarkozy's intervention in the Swiss dilemma, Europe's first direct vote on Islam, came in the midst of the bout of navel-gazing over French national identity launched by his government last month.Despite much criticism, Sarkozy argued that the Swiss vote showed there was no point in being in denial about such soul-searching. The national identity debate is running in tandem with proposals to ban the burka and critics argue that Sarkozy's initiative has degenerated into a populist proxy debate on immigration, with the president seeking to outflank the extreme right and steal their votes.A major conference on national identity is to be held in Paris in February after the debate moved to parliament today, preceded by town hall meetings and heated internet discussions over the past month. Next month parliament is also to consider whether the burka should be banned and in Marseilles there is dispute over the planned construction of a Grand Mosque with a 25-metre minaret.Martine Aubry, the opposition socialist leader, says Sarkozy is making a calculated attempt to stir xenophobia by calling for the public debates.The Swiss referendum has attracted much criticism, including from the government and the churches in Switzerland. It singled out Islam for restrictions and is seen as discriminatory and in breach of the European Convention on Human Rights.But the Swiss procedure has been seized on by far-right politicians in Italy, Austria, and the Netherlands as exemplary. The vote was unique to the Swiss model of plebiscitary democracy which compels single-issue referendums if 100,000 signatures are collected in an 18-month period.Such direct single-issue votes are unlikely elsewhere in Europe, but newspaper opinion polls in Spain, France and Germany since last week's referendum have shown large majorities supporting a ban on minarets.", "tags": ["Nicolas Sarkozy", "Switzerland", "Islam", "France", "World news", "Religion", "Europe"], "title": "Sarkozy defends Switzerland minaret ban"},{"date": "2009-11-30T00:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss claim passivity, diversity and tolerance as founding values. They have grown rich through trade and banking the world's money. They give shelter to wealthy migrants seeking to escape taxes at home. Their country even houses the offices of many international organisations, including large parts of the UN. But yesterday the Swiss pulled aside their veneer of internationalism, voting heavily in favour of a referendum motion that will change the Swiss constitution to ban the building of minarets.The result \u2013 on a 53% turnout \u2013 should shame Switzerland and worry Europe. Although the vote was ostensibly about minarets, of which there are only four in the whole country, and not even mosques, which can still be built, voters were really being lured to express their views on religion and race.Some things about the campaign were specifically Swiss, principally an Alpine distrust of outsiders which lapsed into racism. No other European country would have accepted with relative equanimity a poster campaign displaying a black-veiled Muslim woman and a forest of missile-like minarets imposed on the pure red and white of the Swiss flag. In Switzerland this monstrosity was endorsed by the country's largest party, although opposed by the rest. The Swiss People's party has tried the trick before, thriving in the 2007 federal election on the back of an even more explicit poster showing three white sheep, standing on the red background of the Swiss flag, kicking out a fourth black one, above the slogan \"for more security\". No one, in the context of the far right, should mistake the provocative nature of a campaign fought in the Nazi colours of red, black and white.Switzerland will suffer as a result of yesterday's vote, its cherished national brand tarnished. But it is too easy to blame the Swiss alone. Many of the things that drove yesterday's vote \u2013 growing opposition to migration, the rise of the far right, widespread hatred and fear of Islam \u2013 apply just as much to other European countries, including Britain. This raises an uncomfortable possibility. Was yesterday's result a product of Swiss exceptionalism, or simply the chance existence in Switzerland of a political system that allows popular referendums? Can we be sure that the people of Austria, France, Britain or the Netherlands would have voted differently, if given the chance?All European countries find the politics of migration painful. Even the new EU president, Herman Van Rompuy, once attacked Turkey's application to join the EU, as it threatened \"fundamental values of Christianity\". Hatred lies just beneath the harmony. Politicians who provoke it threaten to cause terrible harm.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Religion", "Islam", "Herman Van Rompuy", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Race issues", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland: Hatred beneath the harmony"},{"date": "2009-10-06T13:14:10Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Roman Polanski has been denied bail from a Swiss prison where he is being held for possible extradition to the United States on an underage sex charge.The Swiss justice ministry refused Polanski's request because of the risk he would flee the country, Folco Galli, a spokesman for the ministry, told the Associated Press.\"We continue to be of the opinion that there is a high risk of flight,\" he said.The appeal was separate from another legal challenge against his arrest submitted by Polanski's lawyers last week. Polanski is expected to be held in custody throughout that appeal and any subsequent challenges from either side.US authorities have being trying to secure Polanski's extradition since he fled in 1978 while awaiting sentencing after admitting have sex with a 13-year-old girl.Under Swiss law the US has 60 days to file a formal extradition request. That request must be examined by the justice ministry, and if approved can be appealed against in a number of courts. That appeal hearing is expected to start in the coming weeks.Galli confirmed that Washington has yet to file a formal request seeking extradition. But he added: \"I assume this is a priority case in the United States.\"Swiss legal experts say Polanski's chances of release are minimal, because he is not Swiss and he already jumped bail.Polanski was accused of raping the girl, after plying her with champagne laced with drugs.He initially faced six charges including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy.He pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse. In exchange, the judge agreed to drop the remaining charges and sentence him to prison for a 90-day psychiatric evaluation.However, he was released after 42 days by an evaluator who deemed him mentally sound and unlikely to offend again.The judge responded by saying he was going to send Polanski back to jail for the remainder of the 90 days and then he would ask Polanski to agree to a \"voluntary deportation\".Polanski fled the US on the day he was scheduled to be sentenced to the additional time.Polanski's arrest sparked contrasting reactions. France and Poland have called for his release, but support for him in Hollywood provoked an angry backlash.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "Switzerland", "US news", "Culture", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Roman Polanski refused bail by Switzerland"},{"date": "2009-10-23T09:21:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The US has asked Switzerland to extradite the director Roman Polanski, who was arrested last month as he arrived in Zurich to attend a film festival.\"The US extradition request is based on a warrant issued by the superior court of the state of California for the county of Los Angeles on 1 February 1978, on which date Polanski had failed to appear before the judge as was required by his bail conditions,\" the Swiss justice department said in a statement.Polanski is expected to appeal if the Swiss government agrees to the extradition request. This week, Switzerland's top criminal court rejected his appeal to be freed from prison, citing a \"high\" risk that he would try to flee.The 76-year-old Oscar-winning director, who holds dual French and Polish citizenship, was arrested at the request of the US when he flew to Switzerland to receive a lifetime achievement prize. The arrest followed a tip-off by Swiss officials to the US authorities, who have been pursuing the director since his admission to the statutory rape of a 13-year-old in 1977.Polanski was accused of plying a teenager with champagne and drugs during a modelling shoot, before raping her. He was initially indicted on six counts, including rape by use of drugs, child molesting and sodomy. Polanski pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of unlawful sexual intercourse and fled in 1978 amid a legal dispute over his sentence.Emails from the Swiss justice office show that it alerted the US office of international affairs (OIA) as to Polanski's presence in Switzerland. The Swiss sent an urgent fax stating that Polanski was expected in Zurich to receive a film award \u2013 as the website of the city's film festival had already announced.The emails, released to the Associated Press, show that on 22 September Swiss officials asked the US if it wanted him arrested. The officials also alerted the Los Angeles district attorney's office, which immediately began drafting an arrest warrant. Polanski was arrested four days later.", "tags": ["Roman Polanski", "Film", "US news", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US asks Switzerland to extradite Roman Polanski"},{"date": "2009-12-07T19:13:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss canton of Uri is more used to holidaymakers flocking to see its stunning Alpine vistas and the statue, in the capital Altdorf, dedicated to national hero William Tell.But the diminutive state could be readying itself for a different kind of influx next year after it was claimed to be the subject of a DVD, also featuring fellow cantons Geneva and Zurich, that is being circulated in the City. It is claimed the cantons are trying to poach disaffected London bankers who may be looking for a fresh start in a country where bonuses attract less scrutiny \u2013 and, crucially, lower levels of tax.The DVD's existence could not be verified today, but one could hazard a guess at the contents. While it is likely to highlight opportunities for dog sledding, mountain biking and cable car rides in the environs of Altdorf, even the canton's official tourism website carries a special section highlighting the \"attractive tax conditions\". The website suggests a Uri-based banker who earns around \u00a3180,000, would attract income tax at rate of just 11%. It also flags that tax applied to an individual's savings is one of the lowest rates in Switzerland at 0.001%.The generous regime also allows qualifying \"resident aliens\" to pay income tax as a one-off sum that is based on living expenses.There is nothing new in the attractions of Switzerland as a financial centre, given its benevolent tax laws and reputation for discretion. However, the industry has begun to branch out from traditional centres such as Geneva and Zurich to quieter spots such as Pfaffikon, a small Swiss town on the shores of lake Zurich. Pfaffikon has become a mecca for hedge funds including Man Group, which also has a base there.With 1,000 investment bankers already estimated to have resigned from state-controlled Royal Bank of Scotland alone, movement has already begun in the sector. Bankers are said to follow the deals and experts predict America, the Middle-East and China would also be high on the list for those without family ties to the UK.It remains to be seen whether they heed the Swiss siren call \u2013 as Uri's website puts it: \"See you soon in Uri.\"", "tags": ["Banking", "Business", "Switzerland", "Financial crisis", "Banks and building societies", "Tax", "Money", "Europe"], "title": "Switzerland looks to lure disaffected bankers with tempting tax laws"},{"date": "2009-11-23T18:28:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss police are investigating a crash in which a pensioner was seriously injured when his car was hit by a Lamborghini sports car being driven by a young Russian man who was allegedly racing three others along the banks of Lake Geneva.The driver of the Lamborghini Murci\u00e9lago was one of a group who set off from a Geneva hotel at 11.20pm last Thursday in four luxury cars including a \u20ac1.4m (\u00a31.2m) Bugatti Veyron. They were said to have driven at speeds in excess of 124mph on the road between Geneva and Lausanne.According to Swiss police, the drivers were frantically overtaking each other. \"It was like a grand prix,\" one witness said. The unnamed 22-year-old driver of the Lamborghini eventually ploughed into a VW Golf, pitching it 50 metres across the road. Its driver, a 70-year-old German pensioner, was severely injured in the crash.The Russian was said to have then staggered out of his wrecked car, after which his friends picked him up and fled the scene. Police later arrested all four drivers. According to the Swiss newspaper Tribune de Gen\u00e9ve, tests showed that the driver of the Lamborghini was drunk.The case has thrown a spotlight on Russia's so-called \"golden youth\" \u2013 the children of Russian politicians, diplomats and mega-rich oligarchs. Today Moscow's newspapers pondered why these young Russians were so much more appalling than their western counterparts.Dmitry Rogozin \u2013 Moscow's outspoken ambassador to Nato \u2013 said that the reported antics of the four young Russians had severely dented the country's reputation abroad. \"The first generation of our 'new Russians' are behaving like complete prats,\" he told the TV station Vesti-24 today. \"We are talking about a golden generation who are not embarrassed to spend \u20ac100 on a cup of tea, or order a risotto costing \u20ac300,\" he added.Rogozin said the behaviour of rich Russians who descend every year on the French ski resort of Courchevel during New Year was now so embarrassing that all the other foreigners run away.\"Our [countrymen] love anything glamorous, anything expensive and anything shiny,\" he lamented. \"The offspring of our top-ranking bureaucrats and millionaires behave in exactly the same way in Courchevel as those who had the car accident.\"Switzerland has long been a favourite playground for affluent Russians \u2013 as well as for Lenin who lived in exile there in the years immediately before the Bolshevik Revolution. Many Russian diplomats live and work in Switzerland. The country is also a popular destination for Russians seeking medical treatment, and a place to hide their money.Many wealthy Russians send their children to expensive private Swiss schools. Their aim is not just to secure an advantageous education for their sons and daughters but also to get their hands on a Swiss passport \u2013 which is granted more rapidly to under-18s from overseas in full-time Swiss education.Swiss police said the Lamborghini driver was recovering in hospital. Officials say he has a residence permit for the canton of Geneva. His friends were apparently visiting from Russia.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Russia", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Russian Lamborghini driver crashes in Switzerland while allegedly racing"},{"date": "2009-11-20T20:22:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Europe's hopes of translating its economic power into global political clout have suffered a severe setback as a result of the timid choices on new leadership made this week, analysts, officials, and diplomats conceded on Friday.Others countered, however, that the new faces promoted to European leadership positions \u2013 Herman Van Rompuy of Belgium and Lady Ashton from Britain \u2013 should be given the benefit of the doubt.Critics within EU structures and experts outside agreed that low politicking had prevailed over lofty ambition in deciding who should take the two posts running EU summits and leading European foreign policy.Both posts \u2013 the president of the European Council (Van Rompuy) and the high representative for foreign and security policy \u2013 are established by the Lisbon treaty, finally endorsed this month and coming into force in 10 days. A central aim of the reform blueprint is to enable the EU to punch its weight more effectively on the international stage.\"We've got a great opportunity with this [foreign policy] post,\" said Mark Leonard, director of the European Council on Foreign Relations thinktank. \"Is Ashton up to it? Based on her track record, it is quite possible that she is.\"But Carl Bildt, the ambitious Swedish foreign minister who was keen to secure the job for himself, ridiculed the appointment as \"an historic missed opportunity\".On the other side of the political spectrum, Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the Franco-German Greens leader, said: \"Europe is sinking to a new low.\"The bulk of the criticism was directed at the appointment of Ashton rather than Van Rompuy since the Belgian, as a prime minister, is viewed as more qualified for his role which, in any case, is being scaled back to that of chairing EU summits and mediating between government chiefs.\"People say she might grow into it,\" said a senior EU official. \"But I doubt it. It's very disappointing. This job demands political answers and strategies.\"Thursday's EU summit in Brussels, at which leaders made the two appointments, had been preceded by weeks of argument and contest for the highly coveted posts. The ferocious manoeuvring meant there was no consensus, portending a lengthy and acrimonious summit.But in the end, it appeared EU leaders did not have the stomach for the fight. The decisions were taken by consensus in record quick time by agreement on obscure figures, neither of whom have the standing or experience to threaten EU national leaders or the European commission chief, Jose Manuel Barroso.The main criticism was the failure to aim high, instead settling for two leaders seen by many as decent, respectable mediocrities.\"The EU is losing influence rapidly and these appointments make that worse,\" said Simon Hix, professor of European politics at the London School of Economics. \"The rest of the world was expecting big figures. But Europe has shown it would rather be a super-sized Switzerland.\"Ashton sought to deflect the reservations, while acknowledging that policy-makers and experts would harbour severe doubts. \"I think for quite a few people, they would say that I am the best person for the job and I was chosen because I am, but I absolutely recognise there are a number of candidates around, all of whom would have been extremely good, extremely able,\" she told the BBC. \"I hope that my particular set of skills will show that in the end I am the best choice.\"Poul Nyrup Rasmussen, the former Danish prime minister who leads the European Socialists, grouping the various national social democratic parties, and who played a key role in securing the job for Ashton, insisted she had \"high capability and a smart style\".\"The appointments have strengthened the influence of the European parliament and of the European political parties,\" he told the Guardian.Hix responded that the jobs were distributed not on the basis of merit, experience, or qualification, but for internal reasons of a European political fix.\"It's a typical example of how dysfunctional the EU has become. Cathy Ashton knows nothing about foreign policy. She got the job because she is a woman, she is British, she is from a big member state. But she gets no respect from anyone in foreign policy circles.\"Supporters counter that in her current job as EU trade commissioner, Ashton has proved competent and effective in a tough brief that entails negotiating as an equal on Europe's behalf with the Chinese, the Brazilians and the US.\"She is used to speaking for Europe internationally and she's been effective,\" said Leonard. \"And Europe has real clout on trade. But the challenge is geopolitical, how the EU can build itself into a big global power. And the question is how quickly will she be able to make the shift to a totally different prism.\"Amid the fallout from Thursday's summit, at which Van Rompuy was the favourite but which Ashton obtained hers by default, a hardheaded reckoning was tallying the winners and losers.\"Barroso is the happiest guy in Brussels,\" said one EU official. \"He can't believe his luck.\"The German and French leaders, Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy, looked satisfied. Van Rompuy was their preference and Ashton's victory means they face no British competition for the powerful economic portfolios in the new European commission.There was surprise and drama in Brussels on Thursday, but today a mood of worried anticlimax settled over the European capital. The new age of mature European assertiveness and leadership that is supposed to be the purpose of the Lisbon treaty was less than palpable. Instead there was a familiar sense of nagging self-doubt and decline.", "tags": ["European Union", "Lady Ashton", "Herman Van Rompuy", "Politics", "World news", "UK news", "Tony Blair"], "title": "'Europe has shown it wants to be a supersize Switzerland'"},{"date": "2010-02-26T00:04:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, \u00adyesterday called for a jihad, or holy war, against Switzerland, in an escalation of his vendetta against the country where police once arrested his son.At a meeting in the city of Benghazi to mark the prophet Muhammad's birthday, Gaddafi described the country as an infidel state that was \"destroying\" mosques. Last year he urged the UN to abolish Switzerland and divide it between Germany, France and Italy.\"Any Muslim in any part of the world who works with Switzerland is an apostate \u2013 is against Muhammad, God and the Qur'an,\" Gaddafi said.Swiss voters last November backed a referendum proposal banning the building of minarets. The proposal was put forward by the Swiss People's party, (SVP), the largest party in parliament, which claims minarets are a sign of Islamisation. The move was opposed by the government, which argued that it would harm Switzerland's image, particularly in the Muslim world.Gaddafi has nursed a grudge against Switzerland since his son Hannibal and daughter-in-law were arrested in Geneva in 2008 for allegedly beating two servants at a luxury hotel. The Gaddafis were released soon afterwards and the charges dropped. But the Libyan leader was so enraged by his son's two-day detention that he shut subsidiaries of Swiss firms in Libya, had two Swiss businessmen arrested, cancelled most flights between the two states and withdrew about $5bn (\u00a33.2bn) from his Swiss bank accounts.One of the Swiss businessmen has been freed, but the other was forced this week to leave the Swiss embassy in Tripoli, where he had sought refuge, and move to jail to serve a four-month term, in an apparent bid to appease the Libyan leader.Libya claims the Geneva arrest and the case of the businessmen are not linked.\"Let us fight against Switzerland, Zionism and foreign aggression,\" said \u00adGaddafi, adding that \"this is not terrorism\", in contrast with the work of al-Qaida, which he called a \"kind of crime and a psychological disease\". \"There is a big difference between terrorism and jihad, which is a right to armed struggle,\" he said.\"The masses of Muslims must go to all airports in the Islamic world and prevent any Swiss plane landing, to all harbours and prevent any Swiss ships docking, inspect all shops and markets to stop any Swiss goods being sold,\" Gaddafi said.Italy warned that Libya may renege on a deal to control the flow of illegal immigrants because of the rift between Gaddafi and Switzerland.Tripoli has stopped issuing visas to citizens of 25 European states in the Schengen passport-free zone, in retaliation for a decision by Berne to bar entry to some Libyans, including Gaddafi's family.Italy, which has close business links with Libya, has accused Switzerland of misusing the Schengen agreement and taking EU members \"hostage\" with the ban, which had forced other states to bar travel by Libyans as well.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, said the row put the Schengen zone at risk and could prompt Libya to end co-operation in controlling illegal immigration to the EU.", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Libya", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi calls for jihad against Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-02-26T00:04:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, \u00adyesterday called for a jihad, or holy war, against Switzerland, in an escalation of his vendetta against the country where police once arrested his son.At a meeting in the city of Benghazi to mark the prophet Muhammad's birthday, Gaddafi described the country as an infidel state that was \"destroying\" mosques. Last year he urged the UN to abolish Switzerland and divide it between Germany, France and Italy.\"Any Muslim in any part of the world who works with Switzerland is an apostate \u2013 is against Muhammad, God and the Qur'an,\" Gaddafi said.Swiss voters last November backed a referendum proposal banning the building of minarets. The proposal was put forward by the Swiss People's party, (SVP), the largest party in parliament, which claims minarets are a sign of Islamisation. The move was opposed by the government, which argued that it would harm Switzerland's image, particularly in the Muslim world.Gaddafi has nursed a grudge against Switzerland since his son Hannibal and daughter-in-law were arrested in Geneva in 2008 for allegedly beating two servants at a luxury hotel. The Gaddafis were released soon afterwards and the charges dropped. But the Libyan leader was so enraged by his son's two-day detention that he shut subsidiaries of Swiss firms in Libya, had two Swiss businessmen arrested, cancelled most flights between the two states and withdrew about $5bn (\u00a33.2bn) from his Swiss bank accounts.One of the Swiss businessmen has been freed, but the other was forced this week to leave the Swiss embassy in Tripoli, where he had sought refuge, and move to jail to serve a four-month term, in an apparent bid to appease the Libyan leader.Libya claims the Geneva arrest and the case of the businessmen are not linked.\"Let us fight against Switzerland, Zionism and foreign aggression,\" said \u00adGaddafi, adding that \"this is not terrorism\", in contrast with the work of al-Qaida, which he called a \"kind of crime and a psychological disease\". \"There is a big difference between terrorism and jihad, which is a right to armed struggle,\" he said.\"The masses of Muslims must go to all airports in the Islamic world and prevent any Swiss plane landing, to all harbours and prevent any Swiss ships docking, inspect all shops and markets to stop any Swiss goods being sold,\" Gaddafi said.Italy warned that Libya may renege on a deal to control the flow of illegal immigrants because of the rift between Gaddafi and Switzerland.Tripoli has stopped issuing visas to citizens of 25 European states in the Schengen passport-free zone, in retaliation for a decision by Berne to bar entry to some Libyans, including Gaddafi's family.Italy, which has close business links with Libya, has accused Switzerland of misusing the Schengen agreement and taking EU members \"hostage\" with the ban, which had forced other states to bar travel by Libyans as well.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, said the row put the Schengen zone at risk and could prompt Libya to end co-operation in controlling illegal immigration to the EU.", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Libya", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi calls for jihad against Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-03-04T21:05:12Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Ineos, the debt-laden chemical group that has just unveiled plans to move its headquarters from the UK to Switzerland to save tax, has itself been handed tens of millions of pounds in tax relief on the huge \u00a36bn debt burden it used to fund its acquisition spree.Britain's biggest private company used borrowed money to aggressively grow a company that includes half of ICI, BP's former refining business and other unwanted businesses from the world's leading chemical groups.The revelation that Ineos, a sprawling company with more than 80 separate firms registered at Companies House, has made huge savings on its tax bill and is now on the point of leaving the UK has provoked fury from unions.The TUC general secretary, Brendan Barber, said: \"No UK company with a major domestic presence should be able to cut its tax bill simply by moving a tiny part of its operations overseas and pretending to no longer be a UK company.\"If HM Revenue & Customs does not already have enough powers to prevent this, then the government should change the law so that companies who rely on UK workers, knowhow and infrastructure to generate profits are contributing their fair share to the public finances.\"A spokesman for Ineos conceded that it had received tax relief on its debt provisions but denied it was \"tax promiscuous\" by taking advantage of generous arrangements to fund its growth and then decamping to a cheaper location.Ineos estimates that moving to Switzerland could save the company \u20ac450m (\u00a3406m) over the next five years. It is seeking permission from its lenders to make the move and is now conducting an internal review. No final decision has yet been made, the company stresses.Tom Crotty, chief executive of Ineos, said: \"Many leading chemical companies have European or global operations resident in Switzerland and we need to compete effectively with them.\"We remain committed to the UK and our facilities will continue to play an essential part in the long-term growth of Ineos \u2026 The change of tax residence would allow us to increase investment to the benefit of all stakeholders in our business.\"In recent weeks, two big corporations, Diageo and Unilever, have threatened to leave the UK, citing high taxes. Already gone into tax exile are the advertising group WPP and the publisher Informa.A recent report by the EEF, the manufacturing organisation, hit out at the treatment of capital expenditure, which it argued failed to take into account advances in technology and the investment manufacturers need to remain competitive.The EEF also believes that the rising administrative and compliance burdens placed on business, the attitude of the tax authorities and uncertainty over the direction of tax policy all add a premium to doing business in the UK.Steve Radley, the EEF chief economist, said: \"The government must ensure that the taxation of investment reflects the true costs of high-value manufacturing investment.\"Ineos was founded by Jim Ratcliffe in 1997. It has since snapped up chemicals plants around the world, including assets of Amoco, Bayer, Dow, Unilever and Union Carbide, and bought BP's refining business for $9bn (then \u00a35bn). If quoted on the stock market, it would rank among the UK's top companies.The company has been under pressure over its high debt levels and last year renegotiated its bank covenants in a complicated arrangement involving 230 banks in a lending syndicate.Ineos has promised to repay a large chunk of borrowings by early next year. Interest on its refinanced debt is said to be 9%, according to reports.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Trade unions", "Business", "Diageo", "Unilever", "Mergers and acquisitions"], "title": "Ineos tax deal sparks fury as firm plans move to Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-02-26T00:04:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, \u00adyesterday called for a jihad, or holy war, against Switzerland, in an escalation of his vendetta against the country where police once arrested his son.At a meeting in the city of Benghazi to mark the prophet Muhammad's birthday, Gaddafi described the country as an infidel state that was \"destroying\" mosques. Last year he urged the UN to abolish Switzerland and divide it between Germany, France and Italy.\"Any Muslim in any part of the world who works with Switzerland is an apostate \u2013 is against Muhammad, God and the Qur'an,\" Gaddafi said.Swiss voters last November backed a referendum proposal banning the building of minarets. The proposal was put forward by the Swiss People's party, (SVP), the largest party in parliament, which claims minarets are a sign of Islamisation. The move was opposed by the government, which argued that it would harm Switzerland's image, particularly in the Muslim world.Gaddafi has nursed a grudge against Switzerland since his son Hannibal and daughter-in-law were arrested in Geneva in 2008 for allegedly beating two servants at a luxury hotel. The Gaddafis were released soon afterwards and the charges dropped. But the Libyan leader was so enraged by his son's two-day detention that he shut subsidiaries of Swiss firms in Libya, had two Swiss businessmen arrested, cancelled most flights between the two states and withdrew about $5bn (\u00a33.2bn) from his Swiss bank accounts.One of the Swiss businessmen has been freed, but the other was forced this week to leave the Swiss embassy in Tripoli, where he had sought refuge, and move to jail to serve a four-month term, in an apparent bid to appease the Libyan leader.Libya claims the Geneva arrest and the case of the businessmen are not linked.\"Let us fight against Switzerland, Zionism and foreign aggression,\" said \u00adGaddafi, adding that \"this is not terrorism\", in contrast with the work of al-Qaida, which he called a \"kind of crime and a psychological disease\". \"There is a big difference between terrorism and jihad, which is a right to armed struggle,\" he said.\"The masses of Muslims must go to all airports in the Islamic world and prevent any Swiss plane landing, to all harbours and prevent any Swiss ships docking, inspect all shops and markets to stop any Swiss goods being sold,\" Gaddafi said.Italy warned that Libya may renege on a deal to control the flow of illegal immigrants because of the rift between Gaddafi and Switzerland.Tripoli has stopped issuing visas to citizens of 25 European states in the Schengen passport-free zone, in retaliation for a decision by Berne to bar entry to some Libyans, including Gaddafi's family.Italy, which has close business links with Libya, has accused Switzerland of misusing the Schengen agreement and taking EU members \"hostage\" with the ban, which had forced other states to bar travel by Libyans as well.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, said the row put the Schengen zone at risk and could prompt Libya to end co-operation in controlling illegal immigration to the EU.", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Libya", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi calls for jihad against Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-03-04T21:05:12Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Ineos, the debt-laden chemical group that has just unveiled plans to move its headquarters from the UK to Switzerland to save tax, has itself been handed tens of millions of pounds in tax relief on the huge \u00a36bn debt burden it used to fund its acquisition spree.Britain's biggest private company used borrowed money to aggressively grow a company that includes half of ICI, BP's former refining business and other unwanted businesses from the world's leading chemical groups.The revelation that Ineos, a sprawling company with more than 80 separate firms registered at Companies House, has made huge savings on its tax bill and is now on the point of leaving the UK has provoked fury from unions.The TUC general secretary, Brendan Barber, said: \"No UK company with a major domestic presence should be able to cut its tax bill simply by moving a tiny part of its operations overseas and pretending to no longer be a UK company.\"If HM Revenue & Customs does not already have enough powers to prevent this, then the government should change the law so that companies who rely on UK workers, knowhow and infrastructure to generate profits are contributing their fair share to the public finances.\"A spokesman for Ineos conceded that it had received tax relief on its debt provisions but denied it was \"tax promiscuous\" by taking advantage of generous arrangements to fund its growth and then decamping to a cheaper location.Ineos estimates that moving to Switzerland could save the company \u20ac450m (\u00a3406m) over the next five years. It is seeking permission from its lenders to make the move and is now conducting an internal review. No final decision has yet been made, the company stresses.Tom Crotty, chief executive of Ineos, said: \"Many leading chemical companies have European or global operations resident in Switzerland and we need to compete effectively with them.\"We remain committed to the UK and our facilities will continue to play an essential part in the long-term growth of Ineos \u2026 The change of tax residence would allow us to increase investment to the benefit of all stakeholders in our business.\"In recent weeks, two big corporations, Diageo and Unilever, have threatened to leave the UK, citing high taxes. Already gone into tax exile are the advertising group WPP and the publisher Informa.A recent report by the EEF, the manufacturing organisation, hit out at the treatment of capital expenditure, which it argued failed to take into account advances in technology and the investment manufacturers need to remain competitive.The EEF also believes that the rising administrative and compliance burdens placed on business, the attitude of the tax authorities and uncertainty over the direction of tax policy all add a premium to doing business in the UK.Steve Radley, the EEF chief economist, said: \"The government must ensure that the taxation of investment reflects the true costs of high-value manufacturing investment.\"Ineos was founded by Jim Ratcliffe in 1997. It has since snapped up chemicals plants around the world, including assets of Amoco, Bayer, Dow, Unilever and Union Carbide, and bought BP's refining business for $9bn (then \u00a35bn). If quoted on the stock market, it would rank among the UK's top companies.The company has been under pressure over its high debt levels and last year renegotiated its bank covenants in a complicated arrangement involving 230 banks in a lending syndicate.Ineos has promised to repay a large chunk of borrowings by early next year. Interest on its refinanced debt is said to be 9%, according to reports.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Trade unions", "Business", "Diageo", "Unilever", "Mergers and acquisitions"], "title": "Ineos tax deal sparks fury as firm plans move to Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-02-11T19:48:35Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "France and Switzerland have more exposure to Greek debt than any other countries in the world, and more than twice as much as Germany \u2013 perhaps adding fuel to the hesitance of the Germans to help bail out the troubled country.France and Switzerland have $79bn (\u00a350bn) each of exposure to Greece, according to American-sourced data from the Bank for International Settlements analysed by the Swiss bank UBS. Germany's exposure is $43bn.Germany is thought to be reluctant to commit itself to bailing out Greece even though EU leaders said that they were committed to trying to help shore up the country's finances. Greece needs to raise about \u20ac53bn (\u00a347bn) this year, which would take its debts to \u20ac290bn, nearly 120% of gross domestic product.Bank share prices were weak across continental Europe on the back of uncertainty about the solution for Greece. Germany's Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas of France were both down 1.3%.Analysts said banks did not usually disclose their exposure to individual countries but dismissed as misplaced concerns that Greek banks might be holding all the \u20ac300bn of debt in issuance. \"Greek banks own around \u20ac40bn of the total \u2026 implying most Greek debt is sitting on the balance sheets of non-domestic banks,\" said Jagdeep Kalsi, an analyst at Credit Suisse.The French bank Cr\u00e9dit Agricole was singled out by analysts at the research firm \u00adCreditSights as being particularly exposed. \"It owns Emporiki Bank in Greece, which has been floundering away, and has about \u20ac23bn in loans there,\" Credit\u00adSights \u00adanalysts said.While Greece has no immediate problem in funding its debt position, there is a concern that unless a solution is found for its budget deficit, contagion could spread among other indebted countries in the eurozone. CreditSights notes that the next major financing for Greece is due in April or May, when \u20ac20bn needs to be refinanced.If the crisis spreads to the so-called \"Pigs\" \u2013 Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain \u2013 the UK is most exposed with $3.7bn of debt, according to the BIS data used by UBS, closely followed by France and Germany. \"The collective exposure of the banking systems to the Pigs is $2.9tn. The bulk of that exposure is located in the banks of France, Germany and the UK,\" the UBS analysts said. \"The exposure is particularly concentrated in the French and German banks, which have 24% and 21% of their foreign total claims harboured in these countries. This is one reason why France and German are so quickly mentioned as countries likely to support or participate in a bailout.\"One concern for the banks holding Greek debt is that it will be downgraded by the credit rating agencies. Kalsi said that banks holding large amounts of Greek debt could be affected if the country's rating is downgraded below BBB-, two notches below where it is now, as this would mean the bonds could no longer be used as collateral at the European Central Bank.The ECB had relaxed the criteria for bonds that it would accept during the credit crisis but will go back to being more stringent about bond ratings by the end of 2010. Gary Jenkins, head of fixed-income research at the stockbroker Evo Securities, thinks the ECB might be encouraged to delay reverting to its previous requirements for bonds while the uncertainty over Greece continues, even though the ECB president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said last month that the bank would not change its collateral framework for any country. \"No government, no state, can expect special treatment,\" Trichet said.French bankers were trying to allay fears of the impact of a default by Greece on the French banking system earlier today. \"It's not a particular issue at all for the French banks,\" Baudouin Prot, chief executive of BNP Paribas, said.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "European Union", "France", "Switzerland", "Germany", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "France and Switzerland most exposed to Greece's debt crisis, say analysts"},{"date": "2010-02-26T00:04:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, \u00adyesterday called for a jihad, or holy war, against Switzerland, in an escalation of his vendetta against the country where police once arrested his son.At a meeting in the city of Benghazi to mark the prophet Muhammad's birthday, Gaddafi described the country as an infidel state that was \"destroying\" mosques. Last year he urged the UN to abolish Switzerland and divide it between Germany, France and Italy.\"Any Muslim in any part of the world who works with Switzerland is an apostate \u2013 is against Muhammad, God and the Qur'an,\" Gaddafi said.Swiss voters last November backed a referendum proposal banning the building of minarets. The proposal was put forward by the Swiss People's party, (SVP), the largest party in parliament, which claims minarets are a sign of Islamisation. The move was opposed by the government, which argued that it would harm Switzerland's image, particularly in the Muslim world.Gaddafi has nursed a grudge against Switzerland since his son Hannibal and daughter-in-law were arrested in Geneva in 2008 for allegedly beating two servants at a luxury hotel. The Gaddafis were released soon afterwards and the charges dropped. But the Libyan leader was so enraged by his son's two-day detention that he shut subsidiaries of Swiss firms in Libya, had two Swiss businessmen arrested, cancelled most flights between the two states and withdrew about $5bn (\u00a33.2bn) from his Swiss bank accounts.One of the Swiss businessmen has been freed, but the other was forced this week to leave the Swiss embassy in Tripoli, where he had sought refuge, and move to jail to serve a four-month term, in an apparent bid to appease the Libyan leader.Libya claims the Geneva arrest and the case of the businessmen are not linked.\"Let us fight against Switzerland, Zionism and foreign aggression,\" said \u00adGaddafi, adding that \"this is not terrorism\", in contrast with the work of al-Qaida, which he called a \"kind of crime and a psychological disease\". \"There is a big difference between terrorism and jihad, which is a right to armed struggle,\" he said.\"The masses of Muslims must go to all airports in the Islamic world and prevent any Swiss plane landing, to all harbours and prevent any Swiss ships docking, inspect all shops and markets to stop any Swiss goods being sold,\" Gaddafi said.Italy warned that Libya may renege on a deal to control the flow of illegal immigrants because of the rift between Gaddafi and Switzerland.Tripoli has stopped issuing visas to citizens of 25 European states in the Schengen passport-free zone, in retaliation for a decision by Berne to bar entry to some Libyans, including Gaddafi's family.Italy, which has close business links with Libya, has accused Switzerland of misusing the Schengen agreement and taking EU members \"hostage\" with the ban, which had forced other states to bar travel by Libyans as well.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, said the row put the Schengen zone at risk and could prompt Libya to end co-operation in controlling illegal immigration to the EU.", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Libya", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi calls for jihad against Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-03-04T21:05:12Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Ineos, the debt-laden chemical group that has just unveiled plans to move its headquarters from the UK to Switzerland to save tax, has itself been handed tens of millions of pounds in tax relief on the huge \u00a36bn debt burden it used to fund its acquisition spree.Britain's biggest private company used borrowed money to aggressively grow a company that includes half of ICI, BP's former refining business and other unwanted businesses from the world's leading chemical groups.The revelation that Ineos, a sprawling company with more than 80 separate firms registered at Companies House, has made huge savings on its tax bill and is now on the point of leaving the UK has provoked fury from unions.The TUC general secretary, Brendan Barber, said: \"No UK company with a major domestic presence should be able to cut its tax bill simply by moving a tiny part of its operations overseas and pretending to no longer be a UK company.\"If HM Revenue & Customs does not already have enough powers to prevent this, then the government should change the law so that companies who rely on UK workers, knowhow and infrastructure to generate profits are contributing their fair share to the public finances.\"A spokesman for Ineos conceded that it had received tax relief on its debt provisions but denied it was \"tax promiscuous\" by taking advantage of generous arrangements to fund its growth and then decamping to a cheaper location.Ineos estimates that moving to Switzerland could save the company \u20ac450m (\u00a3406m) over the next five years. It is seeking permission from its lenders to make the move and is now conducting an internal review. No final decision has yet been made, the company stresses.Tom Crotty, chief executive of Ineos, said: \"Many leading chemical companies have European or global operations resident in Switzerland and we need to compete effectively with them.\"We remain committed to the UK and our facilities will continue to play an essential part in the long-term growth of Ineos \u2026 The change of tax residence would allow us to increase investment to the benefit of all stakeholders in our business.\"In recent weeks, two big corporations, Diageo and Unilever, have threatened to leave the UK, citing high taxes. Already gone into tax exile are the advertising group WPP and the publisher Informa.A recent report by the EEF, the manufacturing organisation, hit out at the treatment of capital expenditure, which it argued failed to take into account advances in technology and the investment manufacturers need to remain competitive.The EEF also believes that the rising administrative and compliance burdens placed on business, the attitude of the tax authorities and uncertainty over the direction of tax policy all add a premium to doing business in the UK.Steve Radley, the EEF chief economist, said: \"The government must ensure that the taxation of investment reflects the true costs of high-value manufacturing investment.\"Ineos was founded by Jim Ratcliffe in 1997. It has since snapped up chemicals plants around the world, including assets of Amoco, Bayer, Dow, Unilever and Union Carbide, and bought BP's refining business for $9bn (then \u00a35bn). If quoted on the stock market, it would rank among the UK's top companies.The company has been under pressure over its high debt levels and last year renegotiated its bank covenants in a complicated arrangement involving 230 banks in a lending syndicate.Ineos has promised to repay a large chunk of borrowings by early next year. Interest on its refinanced debt is said to be 9%, according to reports.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Trade unions", "Business", "Diageo", "Unilever", "Mergers and acquisitions"], "title": "Ineos tax deal sparks fury as firm plans move to Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-02-11T19:48:35Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "France and Switzerland have more exposure to Greek debt than any other countries in the world, and more than twice as much as Germany \u2013 perhaps adding fuel to the hesitance of the Germans to help bail out the troubled country.France and Switzerland have $79bn (\u00a350bn) each of exposure to Greece, according to American-sourced data from the Bank for International Settlements analysed by the Swiss bank UBS. Germany's exposure is $43bn.Germany is thought to be reluctant to commit itself to bailing out Greece even though EU leaders said that they were committed to trying to help shore up the country's finances. Greece needs to raise about \u20ac53bn (\u00a347bn) this year, which would take its debts to \u20ac290bn, nearly 120% of gross domestic product.Bank share prices were weak across continental Europe on the back of uncertainty about the solution for Greece. Germany's Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas of France were both down 1.3%.Analysts said banks did not usually disclose their exposure to individual countries but dismissed as misplaced concerns that Greek banks might be holding all the \u20ac300bn of debt in issuance. \"Greek banks own around \u20ac40bn of the total \u2026 implying most Greek debt is sitting on the balance sheets of non-domestic banks,\" said Jagdeep Kalsi, an analyst at Credit Suisse.The French bank Cr\u00e9dit Agricole was singled out by analysts at the research firm \u00adCreditSights as being particularly exposed. \"It owns Emporiki Bank in Greece, which has been floundering away, and has about \u20ac23bn in loans there,\" Credit\u00adSights \u00adanalysts said.While Greece has no immediate problem in funding its debt position, there is a concern that unless a solution is found for its budget deficit, contagion could spread among other indebted countries in the eurozone. CreditSights notes that the next major financing for Greece is due in April or May, when \u20ac20bn needs to be refinanced.If the crisis spreads to the so-called \"Pigs\" \u2013 Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain \u2013 the UK is most exposed with $3.7bn of debt, according to the BIS data used by UBS, closely followed by France and Germany. \"The collective exposure of the banking systems to the Pigs is $2.9tn. The bulk of that exposure is located in the banks of France, Germany and the UK,\" the UBS analysts said. \"The exposure is particularly concentrated in the French and German banks, which have 24% and 21% of their foreign total claims harboured in these countries. This is one reason why France and German are so quickly mentioned as countries likely to support or participate in a bailout.\"One concern for the banks holding Greek debt is that it will be downgraded by the credit rating agencies. Kalsi said that banks holding large amounts of Greek debt could be affected if the country's rating is downgraded below BBB-, two notches below where it is now, as this would mean the bonds could no longer be used as collateral at the European Central Bank.The ECB had relaxed the criteria for bonds that it would accept during the credit crisis but will go back to being more stringent about bond ratings by the end of 2010. Gary Jenkins, head of fixed-income research at the stockbroker Evo Securities, thinks the ECB might be encouraged to delay reverting to its previous requirements for bonds while the uncertainty over Greece continues, even though the ECB president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said last month that the bank would not change its collateral framework for any country. \"No government, no state, can expect special treatment,\" Trichet said.French bankers were trying to allay fears of the impact of a default by Greece on the French banking system earlier today. \"It's not a particular issue at all for the French banks,\" Baudouin Prot, chief executive of BNP Paribas, said.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "European Union", "France", "Switzerland", "Germany", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "France and Switzerland most exposed to Greece's debt crisis, say analysts"},{"date": "2010-02-15T20:18:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, banned most Europeans from travelling to the country today in a sudden escalation of a dispute with Switzerland that has been running for almost two years.The snap decision to suspend visits from the 25 countries in Europe that share the visa-free Schengen system meant that Britons, outside the passport-free zone, are still able to travel to Libya.The decision caught EU officials by surprise. Tonight they were scrambling for more information and seeking to clarify the exact details of the travel ban, including whether diplomats would be expelled and whether business people and other Europeans resident in Libya would have their visas withdrawn and need to leaveThe Libyan authorities summoned EU ambassadors in Tripoli today to inform them of the draconian move and the European commission announced that European travellers arriving in Libya with valid visas were being refused entry.The European commission did not announce any tit-for-tat moves, perhaps reflecting the difficulty of making quick decisions in a union of 27 countries whose governments have differing views on the Gaddafi regime. The travel ban will have a bigger impact in Italy and Malta, the two EU countries closest to Libya.\"The issue will be discussed before the end of the week,\" said a commission statement. \"The European commission deplores the unilateral and disproportionate decision by Libyan authorities to suspend the delivery of visas to EU Schengen countries' citizens. The commission also regrets that travellers who legally obtained visas before the suspension measure were refused entry when arriving in Libya,\" said Cecilia Malmstroem of Sweden, the commissioner for home affairs.The Schengen agreement applies in 23 of the EU's 27 countries as well as in Switzerland, Iceland and Norway which are not EU members.A newspaper in Tripoli this week warned of \"severe measures\" of retaliation after it said that the Swiss government had decided to blacklist more than 180 Libyan leaders, including the Gaddafi family, from entering Switzerland.The row goes back to the summer of 2008 when Gaddafi's son, Hannibal, was arrested with his wife in a luxury Geneva hotel for allegedly beating up their domestic servants. He was released and the charges were dropped. But the Libyans arrested two Swiss businessmen who have been held in the country ever since.The Swiss foreign ministry today refused to confirm whether the blacklist had been drawn up, but said that it had tightened its visa requirements for Libyan citizens. Last summer the Swiss president, Hans-Rudolf Merz, went to Libya and apologised for the arrest of Hannibal Gaddafi but failed to secure the release of the two businessmen.According to the Tripoli newspaper, the Libyans had told the Swiss to bin the blacklist or risk the European travel ban.The blacklist is said to include the Gaddafi family, Libyan businessmen and secret service personnel and senior officials in the legislative Libyan People's Congress.At Tripoli airport, a Libyan official told the Reuters news agency that the ban was being enforced. \"This is right. This decision has been taken. No visas for Europeans, except Britain.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 24 February 2010 to include Iceland among non-EU Schengen members.", "tags": ["Libya", "Muammar Gaddafi", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi bans most Europeans from travelling to Libya"},{"date": "2010-02-26T00:04:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, \u00adyesterday called for a jihad, or holy war, against Switzerland, in an escalation of his vendetta against the country where police once arrested his son.At a meeting in the city of Benghazi to mark the prophet Muhammad's birthday, Gaddafi described the country as an infidel state that was \"destroying\" mosques. Last year he urged the UN to abolish Switzerland and divide it between Germany, France and Italy.\"Any Muslim in any part of the world who works with Switzerland is an apostate \u2013 is against Muhammad, God and the Qur'an,\" Gaddafi said.Swiss voters last November backed a referendum proposal banning the building of minarets. The proposal was put forward by the Swiss People's party, (SVP), the largest party in parliament, which claims minarets are a sign of Islamisation. The move was opposed by the government, which argued that it would harm Switzerland's image, particularly in the Muslim world.Gaddafi has nursed a grudge against Switzerland since his son Hannibal and daughter-in-law were arrested in Geneva in 2008 for allegedly beating two servants at a luxury hotel. The Gaddafis were released soon afterwards and the charges dropped. But the Libyan leader was so enraged by his son's two-day detention that he shut subsidiaries of Swiss firms in Libya, had two Swiss businessmen arrested, cancelled most flights between the two states and withdrew about $5bn (\u00a33.2bn) from his Swiss bank accounts.One of the Swiss businessmen has been freed, but the other was forced this week to leave the Swiss embassy in Tripoli, where he had sought refuge, and move to jail to serve a four-month term, in an apparent bid to appease the Libyan leader.Libya claims the Geneva arrest and the case of the businessmen are not linked.\"Let us fight against Switzerland, Zionism and foreign aggression,\" said \u00adGaddafi, adding that \"this is not terrorism\", in contrast with the work of al-Qaida, which he called a \"kind of crime and a psychological disease\". \"There is a big difference between terrorism and jihad, which is a right to armed struggle,\" he said.\"The masses of Muslims must go to all airports in the Islamic world and prevent any Swiss plane landing, to all harbours and prevent any Swiss ships docking, inspect all shops and markets to stop any Swiss goods being sold,\" Gaddafi said.Italy warned that Libya may renege on a deal to control the flow of illegal immigrants because of the rift between Gaddafi and Switzerland.Tripoli has stopped issuing visas to citizens of 25 European states in the Schengen passport-free zone, in retaliation for a decision by Berne to bar entry to some Libyans, including Gaddafi's family.Italy, which has close business links with Libya, has accused Switzerland of misusing the Schengen agreement and taking EU members \"hostage\" with the ban, which had forced other states to bar travel by Libyans as well.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, said the row put the Schengen zone at risk and could prompt Libya to end co-operation in controlling illegal immigration to the EU.", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Libya", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi calls for jihad against Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-03-04T21:05:12Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Ineos, the debt-laden chemical group that has just unveiled plans to move its headquarters from the UK to Switzerland to save tax, has itself been handed tens of millions of pounds in tax relief on the huge \u00a36bn debt burden it used to fund its acquisition spree.Britain's biggest private company used borrowed money to aggressively grow a company that includes half of ICI, BP's former refining business and other unwanted businesses from the world's leading chemical groups.The revelation that Ineos, a sprawling company with more than 80 separate firms registered at Companies House, has made huge savings on its tax bill and is now on the point of leaving the UK has provoked fury from unions.The TUC general secretary, Brendan Barber, said: \"No UK company with a major domestic presence should be able to cut its tax bill simply by moving a tiny part of its operations overseas and pretending to no longer be a UK company.\"If HM Revenue & Customs does not already have enough powers to prevent this, then the government should change the law so that companies who rely on UK workers, knowhow and infrastructure to generate profits are contributing their fair share to the public finances.\"A spokesman for Ineos conceded that it had received tax relief on its debt provisions but denied it was \"tax promiscuous\" by taking advantage of generous arrangements to fund its growth and then decamping to a cheaper location.Ineos estimates that moving to Switzerland could save the company \u20ac450m (\u00a3406m) over the next five years. It is seeking permission from its lenders to make the move and is now conducting an internal review. No final decision has yet been made, the company stresses.Tom Crotty, chief executive of Ineos, said: \"Many leading chemical companies have European or global operations resident in Switzerland and we need to compete effectively with them.\"We remain committed to the UK and our facilities will continue to play an essential part in the long-term growth of Ineos \u2026 The change of tax residence would allow us to increase investment to the benefit of all stakeholders in our business.\"In recent weeks, two big corporations, Diageo and Unilever, have threatened to leave the UK, citing high taxes. Already gone into tax exile are the advertising group WPP and the publisher Informa.A recent report by the EEF, the manufacturing organisation, hit out at the treatment of capital expenditure, which it argued failed to take into account advances in technology and the investment manufacturers need to remain competitive.The EEF also believes that the rising administrative and compliance burdens placed on business, the attitude of the tax authorities and uncertainty over the direction of tax policy all add a premium to doing business in the UK.Steve Radley, the EEF chief economist, said: \"The government must ensure that the taxation of investment reflects the true costs of high-value manufacturing investment.\"Ineos was founded by Jim Ratcliffe in 1997. It has since snapped up chemicals plants around the world, including assets of Amoco, Bayer, Dow, Unilever and Union Carbide, and bought BP's refining business for $9bn (then \u00a35bn). If quoted on the stock market, it would rank among the UK's top companies.The company has been under pressure over its high debt levels and last year renegotiated its bank covenants in a complicated arrangement involving 230 banks in a lending syndicate.Ineos has promised to repay a large chunk of borrowings by early next year. Interest on its refinanced debt is said to be 9%, according to reports.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Trade unions", "Business", "Diageo", "Unilever", "Mergers and acquisitions"], "title": "Ineos tax deal sparks fury as firm plans move to Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-02-11T19:48:35Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "France and Switzerland have more exposure to Greek debt than any other countries in the world, and more than twice as much as Germany \u2013 perhaps adding fuel to the hesitance of the Germans to help bail out the troubled country.France and Switzerland have $79bn (\u00a350bn) each of exposure to Greece, according to American-sourced data from the Bank for International Settlements analysed by the Swiss bank UBS. Germany's exposure is $43bn.Germany is thought to be reluctant to commit itself to bailing out Greece even though EU leaders said that they were committed to trying to help shore up the country's finances. Greece needs to raise about \u20ac53bn (\u00a347bn) this year, which would take its debts to \u20ac290bn, nearly 120% of gross domestic product.Bank share prices were weak across continental Europe on the back of uncertainty about the solution for Greece. Germany's Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas of France were both down 1.3%.Analysts said banks did not usually disclose their exposure to individual countries but dismissed as misplaced concerns that Greek banks might be holding all the \u20ac300bn of debt in issuance. \"Greek banks own around \u20ac40bn of the total \u2026 implying most Greek debt is sitting on the balance sheets of non-domestic banks,\" said Jagdeep Kalsi, an analyst at Credit Suisse.The French bank Cr\u00e9dit Agricole was singled out by analysts at the research firm \u00adCreditSights as being particularly exposed. \"It owns Emporiki Bank in Greece, which has been floundering away, and has about \u20ac23bn in loans there,\" Credit\u00adSights \u00adanalysts said.While Greece has no immediate problem in funding its debt position, there is a concern that unless a solution is found for its budget deficit, contagion could spread among other indebted countries in the eurozone. CreditSights notes that the next major financing for Greece is due in April or May, when \u20ac20bn needs to be refinanced.If the crisis spreads to the so-called \"Pigs\" \u2013 Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain \u2013 the UK is most exposed with $3.7bn of debt, according to the BIS data used by UBS, closely followed by France and Germany. \"The collective exposure of the banking systems to the Pigs is $2.9tn. The bulk of that exposure is located in the banks of France, Germany and the UK,\" the UBS analysts said. \"The exposure is particularly concentrated in the French and German banks, which have 24% and 21% of their foreign total claims harboured in these countries. This is one reason why France and German are so quickly mentioned as countries likely to support or participate in a bailout.\"One concern for the banks holding Greek debt is that it will be downgraded by the credit rating agencies. Kalsi said that banks holding large amounts of Greek debt could be affected if the country's rating is downgraded below BBB-, two notches below where it is now, as this would mean the bonds could no longer be used as collateral at the European Central Bank.The ECB had relaxed the criteria for bonds that it would accept during the credit crisis but will go back to being more stringent about bond ratings by the end of 2010. Gary Jenkins, head of fixed-income research at the stockbroker Evo Securities, thinks the ECB might be encouraged to delay reverting to its previous requirements for bonds while the uncertainty over Greece continues, even though the ECB president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said last month that the bank would not change its collateral framework for any country. \"No government, no state, can expect special treatment,\" Trichet said.French bankers were trying to allay fears of the impact of a default by Greece on the French banking system earlier today. \"It's not a particular issue at all for the French banks,\" Baudouin Prot, chief executive of BNP Paribas, said.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "European Union", "France", "Switzerland", "Germany", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "France and Switzerland most exposed to Greece's debt crisis, say analysts"},{"date": "2010-02-15T20:18:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, banned most Europeans from travelling to the country today in a sudden escalation of a dispute with Switzerland that has been running for almost two years.The snap decision to suspend visits from the 25 countries in Europe that share the visa-free Schengen system meant that Britons, outside the passport-free zone, are still able to travel to Libya.The decision caught EU officials by surprise. Tonight they were scrambling for more information and seeking to clarify the exact details of the travel ban, including whether diplomats would be expelled and whether business people and other Europeans resident in Libya would have their visas withdrawn and need to leaveThe Libyan authorities summoned EU ambassadors in Tripoli today to inform them of the draconian move and the European commission announced that European travellers arriving in Libya with valid visas were being refused entry.The European commission did not announce any tit-for-tat moves, perhaps reflecting the difficulty of making quick decisions in a union of 27 countries whose governments have differing views on the Gaddafi regime. The travel ban will have a bigger impact in Italy and Malta, the two EU countries closest to Libya.\"The issue will be discussed before the end of the week,\" said a commission statement. \"The European commission deplores the unilateral and disproportionate decision by Libyan authorities to suspend the delivery of visas to EU Schengen countries' citizens. The commission also regrets that travellers who legally obtained visas before the suspension measure were refused entry when arriving in Libya,\" said Cecilia Malmstroem of Sweden, the commissioner for home affairs.The Schengen agreement applies in 23 of the EU's 27 countries as well as in Switzerland, Iceland and Norway which are not EU members.A newspaper in Tripoli this week warned of \"severe measures\" of retaliation after it said that the Swiss government had decided to blacklist more than 180 Libyan leaders, including the Gaddafi family, from entering Switzerland.The row goes back to the summer of 2008 when Gaddafi's son, Hannibal, was arrested with his wife in a luxury Geneva hotel for allegedly beating up their domestic servants. He was released and the charges were dropped. But the Libyans arrested two Swiss businessmen who have been held in the country ever since.The Swiss foreign ministry today refused to confirm whether the blacklist had been drawn up, but said that it had tightened its visa requirements for Libyan citizens. Last summer the Swiss president, Hans-Rudolf Merz, went to Libya and apologised for the arrest of Hannibal Gaddafi but failed to secure the release of the two businessmen.According to the Tripoli newspaper, the Libyans had told the Swiss to bin the blacklist or risk the European travel ban.The blacklist is said to include the Gaddafi family, Libyan businessmen and secret service personnel and senior officials in the legislative Libyan People's Congress.At Tripoli airport, a Libyan official told the Reuters news agency that the ban was being enforced. \"This is right. This decision has been taken. No visas for Europeans, except Britain.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 24 February 2010 to include Iceland among non-EU Schengen members.", "tags": ["Libya", "Muammar Gaddafi", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi bans most Europeans from travelling to Libya"},{"date": "2010-03-29T11:05:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Shares of British cancer specialist Antisoma plunged after a lung cancer drug it developed with Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis failed in a trial.Antisoma shares dived 66% to 10.9p, valuing the company at about \u00a370m, down from \u00a3200m on Friday.ASA404 had been Antisoma's most valuable experimental product, which is now unlikely to get further funding. The trial, in its final phase III, failed to demonstrate the drug had any sign of improving patients' condition. Broker Peel Hunt cut the company's target price to 33p, from 70p. \"The project was a significant fraction of our valuation of Antisoma, so now we believe the drug has 0% chances of success, even though more trials are continuing,\" said Paul Cuddon, a pharmaceutical analyst at Peel Hunt.London-based Antisoma focuses on the research and development of drugs. The company also has AS1413, to treat leukaemia, in the final phase of trials. \"That's why our valuation isn't totally cut down,\" Cuddon said.Novartis, a multi-million pound business that also produces and markets medicines around the world, lost 0.8% to 57 Swiss francs (\u00a335.86) in Zurich.", "tags": ["Pharmaceuticals industry", "Cancer", "Cancer", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Cancer firm Antisoma suffers share price plunge"},{"date": "2010-02-26T00:04:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, \u00adyesterday called for a jihad, or holy war, against Switzerland, in an escalation of his vendetta against the country where police once arrested his son.At a meeting in the city of Benghazi to mark the prophet Muhammad's birthday, Gaddafi described the country as an infidel state that was \"destroying\" mosques. Last year he urged the UN to abolish Switzerland and divide it between Germany, France and Italy.\"Any Muslim in any part of the world who works with Switzerland is an apostate \u2013 is against Muhammad, God and the Qur'an,\" Gaddafi said.Swiss voters last November backed a referendum proposal banning the building of minarets. The proposal was put forward by the Swiss People's party, (SVP), the largest party in parliament, which claims minarets are a sign of Islamisation. The move was opposed by the government, which argued that it would harm Switzerland's image, particularly in the Muslim world.Gaddafi has nursed a grudge against Switzerland since his son Hannibal and daughter-in-law were arrested in Geneva in 2008 for allegedly beating two servants at a luxury hotel. The Gaddafis were released soon afterwards and the charges dropped. But the Libyan leader was so enraged by his son's two-day detention that he shut subsidiaries of Swiss firms in Libya, had two Swiss businessmen arrested, cancelled most flights between the two states and withdrew about $5bn (\u00a33.2bn) from his Swiss bank accounts.One of the Swiss businessmen has been freed, but the other was forced this week to leave the Swiss embassy in Tripoli, where he had sought refuge, and move to jail to serve a four-month term, in an apparent bid to appease the Libyan leader.Libya claims the Geneva arrest and the case of the businessmen are not linked.\"Let us fight against Switzerland, Zionism and foreign aggression,\" said \u00adGaddafi, adding that \"this is not terrorism\", in contrast with the work of al-Qaida, which he called a \"kind of crime and a psychological disease\". \"There is a big difference between terrorism and jihad, which is a right to armed struggle,\" he said.\"The masses of Muslims must go to all airports in the Islamic world and prevent any Swiss plane landing, to all harbours and prevent any Swiss ships docking, inspect all shops and markets to stop any Swiss goods being sold,\" Gaddafi said.Italy warned that Libya may renege on a deal to control the flow of illegal immigrants because of the rift between Gaddafi and Switzerland.Tripoli has stopped issuing visas to citizens of 25 European states in the Schengen passport-free zone, in retaliation for a decision by Berne to bar entry to some Libyans, including Gaddafi's family.Italy, which has close business links with Libya, has accused Switzerland of misusing the Schengen agreement and taking EU members \"hostage\" with the ban, which had forced other states to bar travel by Libyans as well.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, said the row put the Schengen zone at risk and could prompt Libya to end co-operation in controlling illegal immigration to the EU.", "tags": ["Muammar Gaddafi", "Libya", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi calls for jihad against Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-03-04T21:05:12Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Ineos, the debt-laden chemical group that has just unveiled plans to move its headquarters from the UK to Switzerland to save tax, has itself been handed tens of millions of pounds in tax relief on the huge \u00a36bn debt burden it used to fund its acquisition spree.Britain's biggest private company used borrowed money to aggressively grow a company that includes half of ICI, BP's former refining business and other unwanted businesses from the world's leading chemical groups.The revelation that Ineos, a sprawling company with more than 80 separate firms registered at Companies House, has made huge savings on its tax bill and is now on the point of leaving the UK has provoked fury from unions.The TUC general secretary, Brendan Barber, said: \"No UK company with a major domestic presence should be able to cut its tax bill simply by moving a tiny part of its operations overseas and pretending to no longer be a UK company.\"If HM Revenue & Customs does not already have enough powers to prevent this, then the government should change the law so that companies who rely on UK workers, knowhow and infrastructure to generate profits are contributing their fair share to the public finances.\"A spokesman for Ineos conceded that it had received tax relief on its debt provisions but denied it was \"tax promiscuous\" by taking advantage of generous arrangements to fund its growth and then decamping to a cheaper location.Ineos estimates that moving to Switzerland could save the company \u20ac450m (\u00a3406m) over the next five years. It is seeking permission from its lenders to make the move and is now conducting an internal review. No final decision has yet been made, the company stresses.Tom Crotty, chief executive of Ineos, said: \"Many leading chemical companies have European or global operations resident in Switzerland and we need to compete effectively with them.\"We remain committed to the UK and our facilities will continue to play an essential part in the long-term growth of Ineos \u2026 The change of tax residence would allow us to increase investment to the benefit of all stakeholders in our business.\"In recent weeks, two big corporations, Diageo and Unilever, have threatened to leave the UK, citing high taxes. Already gone into tax exile are the advertising group WPP and the publisher Informa.A recent report by the EEF, the manufacturing organisation, hit out at the treatment of capital expenditure, which it argued failed to take into account advances in technology and the investment manufacturers need to remain competitive.The EEF also believes that the rising administrative and compliance burdens placed on business, the attitude of the tax authorities and uncertainty over the direction of tax policy all add a premium to doing business in the UK.Steve Radley, the EEF chief economist, said: \"The government must ensure that the taxation of investment reflects the true costs of high-value manufacturing investment.\"Ineos was founded by Jim Ratcliffe in 1997. It has since snapped up chemicals plants around the world, including assets of Amoco, Bayer, Dow, Unilever and Union Carbide, and bought BP's refining business for $9bn (then \u00a35bn). If quoted on the stock market, it would rank among the UK's top companies.The company has been under pressure over its high debt levels and last year renegotiated its bank covenants in a complicated arrangement involving 230 banks in a lending syndicate.Ineos has promised to repay a large chunk of borrowings by early next year. Interest on its refinanced debt is said to be 9%, according to reports.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Trade unions", "Business", "Diageo", "Unilever", "Mergers and acquisitions"], "title": "Ineos tax deal sparks fury as firm plans move to Switzerland"},{"date": "2010-02-11T19:48:35Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "France and Switzerland have more exposure to Greek debt than any other countries in the world, and more than twice as much as Germany \u2013 perhaps adding fuel to the hesitance of the Germans to help bail out the troubled country.France and Switzerland have $79bn (\u00a350bn) each of exposure to Greece, according to American-sourced data from the Bank for International Settlements analysed by the Swiss bank UBS. Germany's exposure is $43bn.Germany is thought to be reluctant to commit itself to bailing out Greece even though EU leaders said that they were committed to trying to help shore up the country's finances. Greece needs to raise about \u20ac53bn (\u00a347bn) this year, which would take its debts to \u20ac290bn, nearly 120% of gross domestic product.Bank share prices were weak across continental Europe on the back of uncertainty about the solution for Greece. Germany's Deutsche Bank and BNP Paribas of France were both down 1.3%.Analysts said banks did not usually disclose their exposure to individual countries but dismissed as misplaced concerns that Greek banks might be holding all the \u20ac300bn of debt in issuance. \"Greek banks own around \u20ac40bn of the total \u2026 implying most Greek debt is sitting on the balance sheets of non-domestic banks,\" said Jagdeep Kalsi, an analyst at Credit Suisse.The French bank Cr\u00e9dit Agricole was singled out by analysts at the research firm \u00adCreditSights as being particularly exposed. \"It owns Emporiki Bank in Greece, which has been floundering away, and has about \u20ac23bn in loans there,\" Credit\u00adSights \u00adanalysts said.While Greece has no immediate problem in funding its debt position, there is a concern that unless a solution is found for its budget deficit, contagion could spread among other indebted countries in the eurozone. CreditSights notes that the next major financing for Greece is due in April or May, when \u20ac20bn needs to be refinanced.If the crisis spreads to the so-called \"Pigs\" \u2013 Portugal, Ireland, Italy, Greece and Spain \u2013 the UK is most exposed with $3.7bn of debt, according to the BIS data used by UBS, closely followed by France and Germany. \"The collective exposure of the banking systems to the Pigs is $2.9tn. The bulk of that exposure is located in the banks of France, Germany and the UK,\" the UBS analysts said. \"The exposure is particularly concentrated in the French and German banks, which have 24% and 21% of their foreign total claims harboured in these countries. This is one reason why France and German are so quickly mentioned as countries likely to support or participate in a bailout.\"One concern for the banks holding Greek debt is that it will be downgraded by the credit rating agencies. Kalsi said that banks holding large amounts of Greek debt could be affected if the country's rating is downgraded below BBB-, two notches below where it is now, as this would mean the bonds could no longer be used as collateral at the European Central Bank.The ECB had relaxed the criteria for bonds that it would accept during the credit crisis but will go back to being more stringent about bond ratings by the end of 2010. Gary Jenkins, head of fixed-income research at the stockbroker Evo Securities, thinks the ECB might be encouraged to delay reverting to its previous requirements for bonds while the uncertainty over Greece continues, even though the ECB president, Jean-Claude Trichet, said last month that the bank would not change its collateral framework for any country. \"No government, no state, can expect special treatment,\" Trichet said.French bankers were trying to allay fears of the impact of a default by Greece on the French banking system earlier today. \"It's not a particular issue at all for the French banks,\" Baudouin Prot, chief executive of BNP Paribas, said.", "tags": ["Greece", "Euro", "European Union", "France", "Switzerland", "Germany", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "Europe"], "title": "France and Switzerland most exposed to Greece's debt crisis, say analysts"},{"date": "2010-02-15T20:18:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Libya's leader, Muammar Gaddafi, banned most Europeans from travelling to the country today in a sudden escalation of a dispute with Switzerland that has been running for almost two years.The snap decision to suspend visits from the 25 countries in Europe that share the visa-free Schengen system meant that Britons, outside the passport-free zone, are still able to travel to Libya.The decision caught EU officials by surprise. Tonight they were scrambling for more information and seeking to clarify the exact details of the travel ban, including whether diplomats would be expelled and whether business people and other Europeans resident in Libya would have their visas withdrawn and need to leaveThe Libyan authorities summoned EU ambassadors in Tripoli today to inform them of the draconian move and the European commission announced that European travellers arriving in Libya with valid visas were being refused entry.The European commission did not announce any tit-for-tat moves, perhaps reflecting the difficulty of making quick decisions in a union of 27 countries whose governments have differing views on the Gaddafi regime. The travel ban will have a bigger impact in Italy and Malta, the two EU countries closest to Libya.\"The issue will be discussed before the end of the week,\" said a commission statement. \"The European commission deplores the unilateral and disproportionate decision by Libyan authorities to suspend the delivery of visas to EU Schengen countries' citizens. The commission also regrets that travellers who legally obtained visas before the suspension measure were refused entry when arriving in Libya,\" said Cecilia Malmstroem of Sweden, the commissioner for home affairs.The Schengen agreement applies in 23 of the EU's 27 countries as well as in Switzerland, Iceland and Norway which are not EU members.A newspaper in Tripoli this week warned of \"severe measures\" of retaliation after it said that the Swiss government had decided to blacklist more than 180 Libyan leaders, including the Gaddafi family, from entering Switzerland.The row goes back to the summer of 2008 when Gaddafi's son, Hannibal, was arrested with his wife in a luxury Geneva hotel for allegedly beating up their domestic servants. He was released and the charges were dropped. But the Libyans arrested two Swiss businessmen who have been held in the country ever since.The Swiss foreign ministry today refused to confirm whether the blacklist had been drawn up, but said that it had tightened its visa requirements for Libyan citizens. Last summer the Swiss president, Hans-Rudolf Merz, went to Libya and apologised for the arrest of Hannibal Gaddafi but failed to secure the release of the two businessmen.According to the Tripoli newspaper, the Libyans had told the Swiss to bin the blacklist or risk the European travel ban.The blacklist is said to include the Gaddafi family, Libyan businessmen and secret service personnel and senior officials in the legislative Libyan People's Congress.At Tripoli airport, a Libyan official told the Reuters news agency that the ban was being enforced. \"This is right. This decision has been taken. No visas for Europeans, except Britain.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 24 February 2010 to include Iceland among non-EU Schengen members.", "tags": ["Libya", "Muammar Gaddafi", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Gaddafi bans most Europeans from travelling to Libya"},{"date": "2010-03-29T11:05:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Shares of British cancer specialist Antisoma plunged after a lung cancer drug it developed with Swiss pharmaceutical giant Novartis failed in a trial.Antisoma shares dived 66% to 10.9p, valuing the company at about \u00a370m, down from \u00a3200m on Friday.ASA404 had been Antisoma's most valuable experimental product, which is now unlikely to get further funding. The trial, in its final phase III, failed to demonstrate the drug had any sign of improving patients' condition. Broker Peel Hunt cut the company's target price to 33p, from 70p. \"The project was a significant fraction of our valuation of Antisoma, so now we believe the drug has 0% chances of success, even though more trials are continuing,\" said Paul Cuddon, a pharmaceutical analyst at Peel Hunt.London-based Antisoma focuses on the research and development of drugs. The company also has AS1413, to treat leukaemia, in the final phase of trials. \"That's why our valuation isn't totally cut down,\" Cuddon said.Novartis, a multi-million pound business that also produces and markets medicines around the world, lost 0.8% to 57 Swiss francs (\u00a335.86) in Zurich.", "tags": ["Pharmaceuticals industry", "Cancer", "Cancer", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "Cancer firm Antisoma suffers share price plunge"},{"date": "2010-03-11T12:15:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A woman who admitted trying to murder her terminally ill husband in a \"mercy killing\" has taken her own life at Dignitas clinic in Switzerland, it was reported yesterday.Vicki Wood, a 67-year old artist and toymaker from Devon, died at the Zurich clinic on Friday, according to Western Morning News, adding that she had been suffering from a debilitating physical illness and had travelled to Switzerland with a friend.A spokeswoman for the Foreign Office said officials were looking into the report.In 1999, Wood, a euthanasia campaigner, told a court in Exeter she had tried kill her husband, Tim, who had dementia, by smothering him with a pillow as he slept after she gave him sleeping pills.Wood was put on probation for two years and banned from being alone with her husband. He died nine months later.Passing sentence at the time, Justice Toulson accepted that Wood was acting out of compassion and love for a her husband.In an obituary authorised by Wood, Andy Christian, a journalist and friend of the couple, wrote: \"Despite the setbacks, Vicki Wood led a bountiful life.\"The tribute, which was sent to the Western Mail, adds: \"I remember Tim and Vicki as a happy couple. They were always full of fun and we shared serious conversations and lots of laughter.\"The newspaper reported that Wood and her husband had been members of the Voluntary Euthanasia Society, now called Dignity in Dying, and had discussed euthanasia in a BBC documentary.Vicki Wood wrote letters to the press in support of the campaigner Diane Pretty, who died unassisted in 2002, a year after losing her battle to get her husband granted immunity from prosecution if he helped her to die.Wood and her husband had written \"living wills\", saying they wanted to die rather than have their lives prolonged during serious illness.Last month, the director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer QC, issued new guidelines to clarify the rules on assisted suicide. They set out six mitigating factors against an individual being prosecuted for assisting the suicide of another.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "UK news", "Switzerland", "Society", "World news", "Law", "Europe"], "title": "Attempted 'mercy killing' wife takes her own life"},{"date": "2010-06-21T19:03:05Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland considered sending in commandos or spies to free two of its citizens who were unjustly detained in Libya for more than a year, the country's president revealed today.President Doris Leuthard condemned leaks to the media reporting that Swiss special forces or secret intelligence agents could have been deployed to take on Muammar Gaddafi's security forces \u2013 a surprise for those who may confuse the country's famous neutrality with a reluctance to use force when necessary.\"That the relevant authorities considered the possible use of security forces in a hostage situation is correct and cannot be criticised,\" Leuthard said in confirmation of extraordinary claims about ways to end the so-called \"Gaddafi affair\".The Swiss were outraged by the saga of Max G\u00f6ldi and Rachid Hamdani. The two men were arrested in Tripoli in July 2008 days after the arrest in a Geneva hotel of Hannibal Gaddafi, a son of the Libyan leader, and his pregnant wife, on charges of abusing their domestic servants.The two employees, subsequently compensated by the couple, later dropped assault charges. The Swiss government apologised to Libya for the arrest after a furious Muammar Gaddafi retaliated by closing Swiss businesses in Libya and throwing out the country's diplomats.G\u00f6ldi and Hamdani took refuge in the Swiss embassy in Tripoli but were abducted, taken to court and jailed for visa irregularities. Hamdani was released in February, but G\u00f6ldi had to serve a four-month prison sentence and returned to Switzerland only last week.Swiss media had reported at the weekend that military options were considered by the federal government. The Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve mentioned plans to smuggle the two men out of the country aboard the ambassador's plane. Another idea was to take them across the Algerian border but that was dropped after Algiers demanded the return of dissidents living in Switzerland as its price for co-operating.The most extraordinary claim was that the men were to be \"exfiltrated\" via a submarine waiting for them off the Libyan coast, the paper said. It did not specify who the submarine belonged to.Yet another plan was to take the businessmen south overland across the desert to Niger. According to the Tages-Anzeiger, Tuareg guides were ready but the operation had to be cancelled when the Libyans heard about it from a leak in Algeria.The Swiss foreign minister, Micheline Calmy-Rey, said on Friday that different options had been examined. \"We're talking of a unique crisis. Considering unconventional possibilities is part of the process. We always have to look at every option \u2013 if we didn't, people would ask us why not.\"Neutrality does not mean pacifism. Switzerland has conscription for men over 20. It also has a special commando unit, DRA10 (D\u00e9tachement de reconnaissance d'arm\u00e9e 10), whose main function is to rescue Swiss citizens trapped overseas.Still, military experts were relieved the commandos did not go in. \"The Swiss army isn't equipped for such risky operations, which have to be planned in incredible detail,\" said Albert Stahel of the Institute for Strategic Studies in Zurich.\"It appears that the operation was imminent,\" the Christian Democrat MP Jakob Buechler, head of parliament's defence committee, told the SDA news agency. \"This could have ended in a total disaster.\"Peter Malama, of the centre-right Radical party, said Libya's reaction \"would have been impossible to predict.\"The revelations from the top are likely to ensure that controversy over the Gaddafi affair continues. Christophe Blocher, leader of the far-right Swiss People's party, has been pressing the government to raise \"Libya's hostage taking\" with the UN and break off relations with Tripoli.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Libya", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Switzerland considered sending special forces into Libya to rescue citizens"},{"date": "2010-09-27T11:14:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Wolseley, the world's largest plumbing, heating and building materials supplier, is to relocate to Switzerland in an attempt to cut its tax bill.The FTSE 100-listed company, which generates 81% of its business overseas, said it would create a new holding company called New Wolseley incorporated in Jersey with its tax residence in Switzerland, which would enable it to \"achieve a competitive\" corporate tax rate.Wolseley said the move would reduce the group's underlying tax rate to 28% and that being resident in Switzerland would have saved the company \u00a323m this year.The group, which trades as Build Center and Plumb Center, said that the tax position of the UK business would remain unchanged.A number of British companies, including advertising group WPP, drugmaker Shire and the publisher Informa have gone into tax exile in recent years. Chemicals group Ineos, Britain's biggest private company, announced in April that it was moving its headquarters to Switzerland in the hope of saving \u00a3100m a year in tax.The news came as Wolseley reported a 9% rise in revenues to \u00a313.2bn and flat trading profits of \u00a3450m in the year to 31 July. While it remains cautious about the outlook for its markets, it intends to resume dividend payments at the 2011 half-year results.The company's chairman John Whybrow is to retire at the firm's next annual meeting and will be succeeded by senior independent non-executive director Gareth Davis, the former chief executive of Imperial Tobacco, who is also chairman of William Hill.", "tags": ["Wolseley", "Business", "Construction industry", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Wolseley moves to Switzerland to cut tax bill"},{"date": "2010-10-20T14:30:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cleaning up after your dog is obviously a good thing, especially in towns, but the idea is relatively recent in Switzerland. This picture was taken in the canton of Bern, showing how such good behaviour is encouraged. While this is clearly something light-hearted that one should not read too much into, I thought it amusing and thought provoking.In the first place, it shows that even in a rather traditional and conservative country like Switzerland the theory of evolution is completely uncontroversial. Religion is still taken fairly seriously, particularly in the rural areas. It is also part of the identity mythos of some of the cantons. There is little evidence of fundamentalism however, and even in a Protestant canton like Bern evolution is obviously accepted.On the negative side, it shows the seduction of ideas about progress which have nothing to do with the theory of evolution. Another example is the way that illustrations of the \"tree of life\" nearly always have humans sitting right at the top. It seems that we humans instinctively feel that we are the most important and most advanced of species, and that we \"arose\" due to some sort of progressive process. In fact evolution says nothing of the sort; \"progress\" is in the eye of the beholder, and if a simplification would be an advantage, that is what evolution would favour. The mechanism is not directed at a preordained goal, only at the most efficient offspring right now. Having said that, it does tend to be directional. This has nothing to do with it being directed, but means that future adaptations can only work with the choices left by past adaptations: thus when mammals went back to the sea they didn't get gills back, but effectively found a way to hold their breath longer.Although the anthropocentric view of \"progress\" is less worrying than creationism in that it does not try to change the way science is taught, it is still incorrect and means that people like me are still not explaining it clearly enough to the wider public.", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Progress, evolution, and dog mess in Switzerland | John Hollier"},{"date": "2010-10-20T14:30:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cleaning up after your dog is obviously a good thing, especially in towns, but the idea is relatively recent in Switzerland. This picture was taken in the canton of Bern, showing how such good behaviour is encouraged. While this is clearly something light-hearted that one should not read too much into, I thought it amusing and thought provoking.In the first place, it shows that even in a rather traditional and conservative country like Switzerland the theory of evolution is completely uncontroversial. Religion is still taken fairly seriously, particularly in the rural areas. It is also part of the identity mythos of some of the cantons. There is little evidence of fundamentalism however, and even in a Protestant canton like Bern evolution is obviously accepted.On the negative side, it shows the seduction of ideas about progress which have nothing to do with the theory of evolution. Another example is the way that illustrations of the \"tree of life\" nearly always have humans sitting right at the top. It seems that we humans instinctively feel that we are the most important and most advanced of species, and that we \"arose\" due to some sort of progressive process. In fact evolution says nothing of the sort; \"progress\" is in the eye of the beholder, and if a simplification would be an advantage, that is what evolution would favour. The mechanism is not directed at a preordained goal, only at the most efficient offspring right now. Having said that, it does tend to be directional. This has nothing to do with it being directed, but means that future adaptations can only work with the choices left by past adaptations: thus when mammals went back to the sea they didn't get gills back, but effectively found a way to hold their breath longer.Although the anthropocentric view of \"progress\" is less worrying than creationism in that it does not try to change the way science is taught, it is still incorrect and means that people like me are still not explaining it clearly enough to the wider public.", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Progress, evolution, and dog mess in Switzerland | John Hollier"},{"date": "2010-12-23T14:36:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Two people were seriously hurt yesterday in postal bomb attacks on diplomatic missions in Rome.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, linked the blasts to a similar spate of bombings last month in Athens.The two victims were both working in embassy postrooms when packages blew up in their hands. Doctors who attended the two non-diplomatic employees said their injuries suggested that the explosive devices had been packed with metal.The first blast took place at the Swiss embassy. A couple of hours later, there was another at the Chilean mission.Last night an Italian anarchist group, the FAI or Informal Anarchist Federation, claimed responsibility for the blasts.One of the victims risked losing a hand, and the other an eye. Doctors said that neither was in danger of his life.Last night, the Swiss police said bomb disposal experts were examining a suspect package at the European Union's office in Berne. Some parts of the building had been evacuated, a spokesman said.In Rome, a packet reportedly similar to those that exploded was being examined at the Estonian embassy. There were also alerts at the Ukrainian and Slovenian embassies, but in both cases suspect packages were found to be harmless.Police in Rome said they had alerted all the city's embassies for them to take extra care with their post. The foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said that a message urging special attention had been dispatched to Italy's diplomatic missions overseas.The first victim was a 53-year-old Swiss national. Professor Nicolo Scuderi, who led a team at the Policlinico hospital operating on him, told the news agency AGI that the victim's worst injuries were to a hand which had \"practically exploded with the blast.\" Scuderi said the injured man also suffered wounds on the rest of his body from \"fragments of metal evidently put in the package\".The employee at the Chilean embassy, named in Santiago as Cesar Mella, lost two fingers and had injuries to his throat, face and an eye. The head of surgery at the Policlinico, Massimo Coletti, said a bolt had been removed from his throat.The Chilean ambassador, Oscar Godoy, said the packet bomb was addressed to the cultural attache. But, he added: \"We don't even know if the packet arrived by post or with a courier.\"Chilean and Swiss embassies were also targeted in postal bomb attacks last month on embassies in Athens and governments outside Greece. A Greek police official told Reuters news agency the authorities had stepped up checks of parcels at airports following the attacks in Italy. But he said that, contrary to an earlier report, they had not so far received a request for help from the Italian police.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Switzerland", "Chile", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Bombs explode at Switzerland and Chile embassies in Italy"},{"date": "2010-10-20T14:30:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cleaning up after your dog is obviously a good thing, especially in towns, but the idea is relatively recent in Switzerland. This picture was taken in the canton of Bern, showing how such good behaviour is encouraged. While this is clearly something light-hearted that one should not read too much into, I thought it amusing and thought provoking.In the first place, it shows that even in a rather traditional and conservative country like Switzerland the theory of evolution is completely uncontroversial. Religion is still taken fairly seriously, particularly in the rural areas. It is also part of the identity mythos of some of the cantons. There is little evidence of fundamentalism however, and even in a Protestant canton like Bern evolution is obviously accepted.On the negative side, it shows the seduction of ideas about progress which have nothing to do with the theory of evolution. Another example is the way that illustrations of the \"tree of life\" nearly always have humans sitting right at the top. It seems that we humans instinctively feel that we are the most important and most advanced of species, and that we \"arose\" due to some sort of progressive process. In fact evolution says nothing of the sort; \"progress\" is in the eye of the beholder, and if a simplification would be an advantage, that is what evolution would favour. The mechanism is not directed at a preordained goal, only at the most efficient offspring right now. Having said that, it does tend to be directional. This has nothing to do with it being directed, but means that future adaptations can only work with the choices left by past adaptations: thus when mammals went back to the sea they didn't get gills back, but effectively found a way to hold their breath longer.Although the anthropocentric view of \"progress\" is less worrying than creationism in that it does not try to change the way science is taught, it is still incorrect and means that people like me are still not explaining it clearly enough to the wider public.", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Progress, evolution, and dog mess in Switzerland | John Hollier"},{"date": "2010-12-23T14:36:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Two people were seriously hurt yesterday in postal bomb attacks on diplomatic missions in Rome.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, linked the blasts to a similar spate of bombings last month in Athens.The two victims were both working in embassy postrooms when packages blew up in their hands. Doctors who attended the two non-diplomatic employees said their injuries suggested that the explosive devices had been packed with metal.The first blast took place at the Swiss embassy. A couple of hours later, there was another at the Chilean mission.Last night an Italian anarchist group, the FAI or Informal Anarchist Federation, claimed responsibility for the blasts.One of the victims risked losing a hand, and the other an eye. Doctors said that neither was in danger of his life.Last night, the Swiss police said bomb disposal experts were examining a suspect package at the European Union's office in Berne. Some parts of the building had been evacuated, a spokesman said.In Rome, a packet reportedly similar to those that exploded was being examined at the Estonian embassy. There were also alerts at the Ukrainian and Slovenian embassies, but in both cases suspect packages were found to be harmless.Police in Rome said they had alerted all the city's embassies for them to take extra care with their post. The foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said that a message urging special attention had been dispatched to Italy's diplomatic missions overseas.The first victim was a 53-year-old Swiss national. Professor Nicolo Scuderi, who led a team at the Policlinico hospital operating on him, told the news agency AGI that the victim's worst injuries were to a hand which had \"practically exploded with the blast.\" Scuderi said the injured man also suffered wounds on the rest of his body from \"fragments of metal evidently put in the package\".The employee at the Chilean embassy, named in Santiago as Cesar Mella, lost two fingers and had injuries to his throat, face and an eye. The head of surgery at the Policlinico, Massimo Coletti, said a bolt had been removed from his throat.The Chilean ambassador, Oscar Godoy, said the packet bomb was addressed to the cultural attache. But, he added: \"We don't even know if the packet arrived by post or with a courier.\"Chilean and Swiss embassies were also targeted in postal bomb attacks last month on embassies in Athens and governments outside Greece. A Greek police official told Reuters news agency the authorities had stepped up checks of parcels at airports following the attacks in Italy. But he said that, contrary to an earlier report, they had not so far received a request for help from the Italian police.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Switzerland", "Chile", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Bombs explode at Switzerland and Chile embassies in Italy"},{"date": "2010-12-03T17:30:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cadbury, the British confectionery company taken over by Kraft earlier this year, is being secretly restructured in a move that will help its new American owner avoid millions of pounds in UK taxes.Kraft is reorganising the Bournville-based manufacturer's UK business to allow much of the profit to be booked in Switzerland. The switch means the Dairy Milk manufacturer will pay a much lower rate of corporation tax and is likely to deprive the exchequer of millions of pounds in tax revenue. It mirrors previous changes to tax structures implemented at Kraft, as well as other large food groups.News of the restructuring is likely to prompt further debate about one of the most controversial takeovers of a British company, which raised issues about foreign ownership of UK assets and the job security of British workers. Kraft pledged to retain a key Cadbury factory in Somerdale, near Bristol, in order to win support for the \u00a311bn bid, only to announce its closure, with the loss of 400 jobs, just days after gaining control. Kraft boss Irene Rosenfeld then declined to appear in front of a committee of MPs investigating the takeover.The Kraft restructuring plan involves inserting a Swiss holding company above Cadbury's UK operations. The UK offshoots will then effectively become sales and manufacturing service businesses paid commissions by the parent. The British subsidiaries will almost certainly employ roughly the same number of people as under the old structure. However, as key staff are being relocated to Switzerland, and the UK companies will technically no longer own the raw materials or products they make and sell, much of the tax liability will be transferred to Zurich.Richard Murphy, a director at Tax Research UK, said: \"We have seen this kind of structure before with [crisp company] Walkers where, after being acquired, the UK operation is moved to a Swiss holding company. The advantages are twofold. First, if you actually locate the management in Switzerland, you'll have an argument with the Revenue but you can move profit from the UK and save tax. Second, as the brand is vital to profits, you can also transfer that value out of the UK to Switzerland. The UK company will then pay royalties to use the brand, which is also tax deductible.\"The Guardian understands that Kraft is still running accounting models to determine the best structure. It is expected to be implemented by the middle of next year, so it is not yet clear exactly how much tax Kraft will end up saving. However, in its last year as a public company, Cadbury accounts show the company paid \u00a3197m in taxes.The current corporation tax rate in the UK is 28%. In Zurich, where Kraft has its European headquarters, rates begin at 15%, although foreign holding companies using the canton as an administrative base can be exempt from tax on non-Swiss earnings. Businesses can also apply for \"mixed company tax privilege\" and agree a much reduced rate. Swiss federal corporation taxes are levied at a rate of 8%.A spokesman for Kraft confirmed: \"Since 2006 we have been implementing our European model involving a [holding] company based in Zurich together with local companies in country markets. The reorganisation has given us greater focus on our priority brands and has helped us grow faster. We are integrating Cadbury into this model. This involves the transfer of certain roles to Switzerland, though the majority of UK-based roles will remain in the UK.\"When asked how much the company would save in tax, the spokesman replied: \"Yes, Switzerland is a tax-efficient location, but the business decision was about growing the top line of the company.\"Exactly how much the UK Exchequer will lose following Kraft's move may emerge over time. However, previous examples of similar moves provide a guide to the potential savings.In June 1999, the US food group PepsiCo transferred ownership of its Walkers crisps brands, built up in the UK over decades, out of England and into a Swiss subsidiary, Frito-Lay Trading GmbH. The British factories were reduced from a major profit centre to mere contract manufacturers, paid a margin over their costs by PepsiCo's Swiss trading company.The year before the transfer, Walkers Snack Foods was turning over \u00a3469m. This generated profits in the UK of \u00a391m and a tax bill of \u00a328m. But in 1999, the year the brands were sold, Walkers Snack Foods turnover almost halved, as did its profits, and the UK tax bill went down to \u00a314.7m.Kraft's plan differs slightly and the company insists that Cadbury brands will continue to be owned by a British company, which mirrors how accountants have previously arranged the US group's European businesses.Kraft \u2013 whose brands include Toblerone, Dairylea cheese triangles and Ritz crackers \u2013 pulled off a similar restructuring last year and Kraft Foods UK's 2009 accounts state: \"Until April 2009 the principal activity of the company was the manufacture and distribution of food products to the retail, food service and vending beverage market places ... The directors approved the sale of the assets and liabilities associated with Kraft Foods UK Ltd's service and procurement functions to the UK Branches of the Swiss entities, namely Kraft Foods Europe Procurement GmbH and Kraft Foods Europe Services GmbH ... After the completion of the restructuring Kraft Foods UK Ltd acts as a sales and distribution company selling Kraft Food products into the existing United Kingdom markets and customers.\"", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Tax avoidance", "Corporate governance", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Moving Cadbury HQ to Switzerland could save Kraft millions in UK tax"},{"date": "2010-10-20T14:30:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cleaning up after your dog is obviously a good thing, especially in towns, but the idea is relatively recent in Switzerland. This picture was taken in the canton of Bern, showing how such good behaviour is encouraged. While this is clearly something light-hearted that one should not read too much into, I thought it amusing and thought provoking.In the first place, it shows that even in a rather traditional and conservative country like Switzerland the theory of evolution is completely uncontroversial. Religion is still taken fairly seriously, particularly in the rural areas. It is also part of the identity mythos of some of the cantons. There is little evidence of fundamentalism however, and even in a Protestant canton like Bern evolution is obviously accepted.On the negative side, it shows the seduction of ideas about progress which have nothing to do with the theory of evolution. Another example is the way that illustrations of the \"tree of life\" nearly always have humans sitting right at the top. It seems that we humans instinctively feel that we are the most important and most advanced of species, and that we \"arose\" due to some sort of progressive process. In fact evolution says nothing of the sort; \"progress\" is in the eye of the beholder, and if a simplification would be an advantage, that is what evolution would favour. The mechanism is not directed at a preordained goal, only at the most efficient offspring right now. Having said that, it does tend to be directional. This has nothing to do with it being directed, but means that future adaptations can only work with the choices left by past adaptations: thus when mammals went back to the sea they didn't get gills back, but effectively found a way to hold their breath longer.Although the anthropocentric view of \"progress\" is less worrying than creationism in that it does not try to change the way science is taught, it is still incorrect and means that people like me are still not explaining it clearly enough to the wider public.", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Progress, evolution, and dog mess in Switzerland | John Hollier"},{"date": "2010-12-23T14:36:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Two people were seriously hurt yesterday in postal bomb attacks on diplomatic missions in Rome.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, linked the blasts to a similar spate of bombings last month in Athens.The two victims were both working in embassy postrooms when packages blew up in their hands. Doctors who attended the two non-diplomatic employees said their injuries suggested that the explosive devices had been packed with metal.The first blast took place at the Swiss embassy. A couple of hours later, there was another at the Chilean mission.Last night an Italian anarchist group, the FAI or Informal Anarchist Federation, claimed responsibility for the blasts.One of the victims risked losing a hand, and the other an eye. Doctors said that neither was in danger of his life.Last night, the Swiss police said bomb disposal experts were examining a suspect package at the European Union's office in Berne. Some parts of the building had been evacuated, a spokesman said.In Rome, a packet reportedly similar to those that exploded was being examined at the Estonian embassy. There were also alerts at the Ukrainian and Slovenian embassies, but in both cases suspect packages were found to be harmless.Police in Rome said they had alerted all the city's embassies for them to take extra care with their post. The foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said that a message urging special attention had been dispatched to Italy's diplomatic missions overseas.The first victim was a 53-year-old Swiss national. Professor Nicolo Scuderi, who led a team at the Policlinico hospital operating on him, told the news agency AGI that the victim's worst injuries were to a hand which had \"practically exploded with the blast.\" Scuderi said the injured man also suffered wounds on the rest of his body from \"fragments of metal evidently put in the package\".The employee at the Chilean embassy, named in Santiago as Cesar Mella, lost two fingers and had injuries to his throat, face and an eye. The head of surgery at the Policlinico, Massimo Coletti, said a bolt had been removed from his throat.The Chilean ambassador, Oscar Godoy, said the packet bomb was addressed to the cultural attache. But, he added: \"We don't even know if the packet arrived by post or with a courier.\"Chilean and Swiss embassies were also targeted in postal bomb attacks last month on embassies in Athens and governments outside Greece. A Greek police official told Reuters news agency the authorities had stepped up checks of parcels at airports following the attacks in Italy. But he said that, contrary to an earlier report, they had not so far received a request for help from the Italian police.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Switzerland", "Chile", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Bombs explode at Switzerland and Chile embassies in Italy"},{"date": "2010-12-03T17:30:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cadbury, the British confectionery company taken over by Kraft earlier this year, is being secretly restructured in a move that will help its new American owner avoid millions of pounds in UK taxes.Kraft is reorganising the Bournville-based manufacturer's UK business to allow much of the profit to be booked in Switzerland. The switch means the Dairy Milk manufacturer will pay a much lower rate of corporation tax and is likely to deprive the exchequer of millions of pounds in tax revenue. It mirrors previous changes to tax structures implemented at Kraft, as well as other large food groups.News of the restructuring is likely to prompt further debate about one of the most controversial takeovers of a British company, which raised issues about foreign ownership of UK assets and the job security of British workers. Kraft pledged to retain a key Cadbury factory in Somerdale, near Bristol, in order to win support for the \u00a311bn bid, only to announce its closure, with the loss of 400 jobs, just days after gaining control. Kraft boss Irene Rosenfeld then declined to appear in front of a committee of MPs investigating the takeover.The Kraft restructuring plan involves inserting a Swiss holding company above Cadbury's UK operations. The UK offshoots will then effectively become sales and manufacturing service businesses paid commissions by the parent. The British subsidiaries will almost certainly employ roughly the same number of people as under the old structure. However, as key staff are being relocated to Switzerland, and the UK companies will technically no longer own the raw materials or products they make and sell, much of the tax liability will be transferred to Zurich.Richard Murphy, a director at Tax Research UK, said: \"We have seen this kind of structure before with [crisp company] Walkers where, after being acquired, the UK operation is moved to a Swiss holding company. The advantages are twofold. First, if you actually locate the management in Switzerland, you'll have an argument with the Revenue but you can move profit from the UK and save tax. Second, as the brand is vital to profits, you can also transfer that value out of the UK to Switzerland. The UK company will then pay royalties to use the brand, which is also tax deductible.\"The Guardian understands that Kraft is still running accounting models to determine the best structure. It is expected to be implemented by the middle of next year, so it is not yet clear exactly how much tax Kraft will end up saving. However, in its last year as a public company, Cadbury accounts show the company paid \u00a3197m in taxes.The current corporation tax rate in the UK is 28%. In Zurich, where Kraft has its European headquarters, rates begin at 15%, although foreign holding companies using the canton as an administrative base can be exempt from tax on non-Swiss earnings. Businesses can also apply for \"mixed company tax privilege\" and agree a much reduced rate. Swiss federal corporation taxes are levied at a rate of 8%.A spokesman for Kraft confirmed: \"Since 2006 we have been implementing our European model involving a [holding] company based in Zurich together with local companies in country markets. The reorganisation has given us greater focus on our priority brands and has helped us grow faster. We are integrating Cadbury into this model. This involves the transfer of certain roles to Switzerland, though the majority of UK-based roles will remain in the UK.\"When asked how much the company would save in tax, the spokesman replied: \"Yes, Switzerland is a tax-efficient location, but the business decision was about growing the top line of the company.\"Exactly how much the UK Exchequer will lose following Kraft's move may emerge over time. However, previous examples of similar moves provide a guide to the potential savings.In June 1999, the US food group PepsiCo transferred ownership of its Walkers crisps brands, built up in the UK over decades, out of England and into a Swiss subsidiary, Frito-Lay Trading GmbH. The British factories were reduced from a major profit centre to mere contract manufacturers, paid a margin over their costs by PepsiCo's Swiss trading company.The year before the transfer, Walkers Snack Foods was turning over \u00a3469m. This generated profits in the UK of \u00a391m and a tax bill of \u00a328m. But in 1999, the year the brands were sold, Walkers Snack Foods turnover almost halved, as did its profits, and the UK tax bill went down to \u00a314.7m.Kraft's plan differs slightly and the company insists that Cadbury brands will continue to be owned by a British company, which mirrors how accountants have previously arranged the US group's European businesses.Kraft \u2013 whose brands include Toblerone, Dairylea cheese triangles and Ritz crackers \u2013 pulled off a similar restructuring last year and Kraft Foods UK's 2009 accounts state: \"Until April 2009 the principal activity of the company was the manufacture and distribution of food products to the retail, food service and vending beverage market places ... The directors approved the sale of the assets and liabilities associated with Kraft Foods UK Ltd's service and procurement functions to the UK Branches of the Swiss entities, namely Kraft Foods Europe Procurement GmbH and Kraft Foods Europe Services GmbH ... After the completion of the restructuring Kraft Foods UK Ltd acts as a sales and distribution company selling Kraft Food products into the existing United Kingdom markets and customers.\"", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Tax avoidance", "Corporate governance", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Moving Cadbury HQ to Switzerland could save Kraft millions in UK tax"},{"date": "2010-11-26T16:24:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's renown as a tax oasis for the world's rich will come under threat this weekend with a proposal to impose minimal income levies on the ultra wealthy.Business leaders have warned that the plan by the centre-left Social Democrats (SP), which the Swiss will vote on in a referendum on Sunday, will prompt an exodus of rich residents and leave a gaping hole in the nation's economy.But SP argues it will merely bring Switzerland into line with other countries' tax regimes and create more fairness within the country.Switzerland's cantons, or states, attempt to attract the rich by undercutting each other on tax rates. It has made parts of the country magnets for the super rich, including business people, royals and about 5,000 celebrities.They include the singer Tina Turner, supermodel Karolina Kurkova and more recently the new Formula One champion Sebastian Vettel, who, as well as very low tax rates, typically enjoy high-end lifestyles in lakeside villas with spectacular mountain views and guaranteed privacy.Under SP's \"tax initiative\", incomes of 250,000 Swiss francs (\u00a3159,000) would incur minimum levies of 22% while assets of more than two million francs (\u00a31.27m) would be liable to 0.5%. If passed, the rule would apply to cantons across the country. At stake for cantons such as Schwyz, Zug and Obwalden are their special statuses as tax oases that cosset the rich like hardly any other nation.Residents of Zurich with an income of 350,000 francs pay around 110,000 of it to the taxman, while in Schwyz the rate is just half that.But public support for the plan, whose campaigners have tapped into anger over bankers' bonuses and political management of the financial crisis, has dropped from 58% to 46% in recent weeks, with Swiss business representatives warning it could drive thousands of executives and their businesses out of the country.A leading voice of the opponents is Alfred Schindler, the billionaire owner of the Schindler lift and escalator company, who has argued his personal tax rate will rise to a prohibitive 70% to 80% based on his earnings last year of 7.4 million francs (\u00a34.7m) and his assets.\"Switzerland is becoming a socialist land,\" Schindler said. \"While it means a lot to me, my tax rate would rise to over 70%, which is nothing less than expropriation and is not tolerable\". He has repeatedly threatened he will leave the country if the referendum is passed. \"I can be out of here before you know it,\" he told a newspaper.In reaction, SP's youth wing, Juso, sent the businessman a one-way ticket to Bulgaria, arguing that is the only other country in Europe where his taxes would be lower than at present.\"Let him emigrate,\" said David Roth, president of Juso in Lucerne, who disputes Schindler's claim that his tax rate would rise to 70 to 80%. \"He's deliberately miscalculated it,\" he said.Rudolf Strahm, a former federal price regulator and supporter of the initiative, said he doubted the rich would carry out their threats to leave as nowhere would be as comfortable for them as Switzerland. \"Where do these super rich think they're going to go? \" he said. \"Basically their options are Singapore and eastern Europe.\" He said the initiative had coincided with a growing swell of resentment towards Switzerland's \"tax tourism\", which \"the normal earners of this country reject and find loathsome\".Estate agents have also entered the fray, arguing that the move would have a chaotic effect on the country's property prices. \"It would mean a huge devaluation of house prices in communities where taxes are lower,\" said Donato Scognamiglio, the head IAZI, a property consultancy in Zurich .If the initiative is passed, Roger Federer, the tennis star and Swiss native who resides in the tax-friendly town of Wollerau in Schwyz, can expect the value of his luxury villa to fall by as much as 27%.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Super rich in Switzerland could lose tax breaks under 'socialist' proposals"},{"date": "2010-10-20T14:30:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cleaning up after your dog is obviously a good thing, especially in towns, but the idea is relatively recent in Switzerland. This picture was taken in the canton of Bern, showing how such good behaviour is encouraged. While this is clearly something light-hearted that one should not read too much into, I thought it amusing and thought provoking.In the first place, it shows that even in a rather traditional and conservative country like Switzerland the theory of evolution is completely uncontroversial. Religion is still taken fairly seriously, particularly in the rural areas. It is also part of the identity mythos of some of the cantons. There is little evidence of fundamentalism however, and even in a Protestant canton like Bern evolution is obviously accepted.On the negative side, it shows the seduction of ideas about progress which have nothing to do with the theory of evolution. Another example is the way that illustrations of the \"tree of life\" nearly always have humans sitting right at the top. It seems that we humans instinctively feel that we are the most important and most advanced of species, and that we \"arose\" due to some sort of progressive process. In fact evolution says nothing of the sort; \"progress\" is in the eye of the beholder, and if a simplification would be an advantage, that is what evolution would favour. The mechanism is not directed at a preordained goal, only at the most efficient offspring right now. Having said that, it does tend to be directional. This has nothing to do with it being directed, but means that future adaptations can only work with the choices left by past adaptations: thus when mammals went back to the sea they didn't get gills back, but effectively found a way to hold their breath longer.Although the anthropocentric view of \"progress\" is less worrying than creationism in that it does not try to change the way science is taught, it is still incorrect and means that people like me are still not explaining it clearly enough to the wider public.", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Progress, evolution, and dog mess in Switzerland | John Hollier"},{"date": "2010-12-23T14:36:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Two people were seriously hurt yesterday in postal bomb attacks on diplomatic missions in Rome.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, linked the blasts to a similar spate of bombings last month in Athens.The two victims were both working in embassy postrooms when packages blew up in their hands. Doctors who attended the two non-diplomatic employees said their injuries suggested that the explosive devices had been packed with metal.The first blast took place at the Swiss embassy. A couple of hours later, there was another at the Chilean mission.Last night an Italian anarchist group, the FAI or Informal Anarchist Federation, claimed responsibility for the blasts.One of the victims risked losing a hand, and the other an eye. Doctors said that neither was in danger of his life.Last night, the Swiss police said bomb disposal experts were examining a suspect package at the European Union's office in Berne. Some parts of the building had been evacuated, a spokesman said.In Rome, a packet reportedly similar to those that exploded was being examined at the Estonian embassy. There were also alerts at the Ukrainian and Slovenian embassies, but in both cases suspect packages were found to be harmless.Police in Rome said they had alerted all the city's embassies for them to take extra care with their post. The foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said that a message urging special attention had been dispatched to Italy's diplomatic missions overseas.The first victim was a 53-year-old Swiss national. Professor Nicolo Scuderi, who led a team at the Policlinico hospital operating on him, told the news agency AGI that the victim's worst injuries were to a hand which had \"practically exploded with the blast.\" Scuderi said the injured man also suffered wounds on the rest of his body from \"fragments of metal evidently put in the package\".The employee at the Chilean embassy, named in Santiago as Cesar Mella, lost two fingers and had injuries to his throat, face and an eye. The head of surgery at the Policlinico, Massimo Coletti, said a bolt had been removed from his throat.The Chilean ambassador, Oscar Godoy, said the packet bomb was addressed to the cultural attache. But, he added: \"We don't even know if the packet arrived by post or with a courier.\"Chilean and Swiss embassies were also targeted in postal bomb attacks last month on embassies in Athens and governments outside Greece. A Greek police official told Reuters news agency the authorities had stepped up checks of parcels at airports following the attacks in Italy. But he said that, contrary to an earlier report, they had not so far received a request for help from the Italian police.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Switzerland", "Chile", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Bombs explode at Switzerland and Chile embassies in Italy"},{"date": "2010-12-03T17:30:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cadbury, the British confectionery company taken over by Kraft earlier this year, is being secretly restructured in a move that will help its new American owner avoid millions of pounds in UK taxes.Kraft is reorganising the Bournville-based manufacturer's UK business to allow much of the profit to be booked in Switzerland. The switch means the Dairy Milk manufacturer will pay a much lower rate of corporation tax and is likely to deprive the exchequer of millions of pounds in tax revenue. It mirrors previous changes to tax structures implemented at Kraft, as well as other large food groups.News of the restructuring is likely to prompt further debate about one of the most controversial takeovers of a British company, which raised issues about foreign ownership of UK assets and the job security of British workers. Kraft pledged to retain a key Cadbury factory in Somerdale, near Bristol, in order to win support for the \u00a311bn bid, only to announce its closure, with the loss of 400 jobs, just days after gaining control. Kraft boss Irene Rosenfeld then declined to appear in front of a committee of MPs investigating the takeover.The Kraft restructuring plan involves inserting a Swiss holding company above Cadbury's UK operations. The UK offshoots will then effectively become sales and manufacturing service businesses paid commissions by the parent. The British subsidiaries will almost certainly employ roughly the same number of people as under the old structure. However, as key staff are being relocated to Switzerland, and the UK companies will technically no longer own the raw materials or products they make and sell, much of the tax liability will be transferred to Zurich.Richard Murphy, a director at Tax Research UK, said: \"We have seen this kind of structure before with [crisp company] Walkers where, after being acquired, the UK operation is moved to a Swiss holding company. The advantages are twofold. First, if you actually locate the management in Switzerland, you'll have an argument with the Revenue but you can move profit from the UK and save tax. Second, as the brand is vital to profits, you can also transfer that value out of the UK to Switzerland. The UK company will then pay royalties to use the brand, which is also tax deductible.\"The Guardian understands that Kraft is still running accounting models to determine the best structure. It is expected to be implemented by the middle of next year, so it is not yet clear exactly how much tax Kraft will end up saving. However, in its last year as a public company, Cadbury accounts show the company paid \u00a3197m in taxes.The current corporation tax rate in the UK is 28%. In Zurich, where Kraft has its European headquarters, rates begin at 15%, although foreign holding companies using the canton as an administrative base can be exempt from tax on non-Swiss earnings. Businesses can also apply for \"mixed company tax privilege\" and agree a much reduced rate. Swiss federal corporation taxes are levied at a rate of 8%.A spokesman for Kraft confirmed: \"Since 2006 we have been implementing our European model involving a [holding] company based in Zurich together with local companies in country markets. The reorganisation has given us greater focus on our priority brands and has helped us grow faster. We are integrating Cadbury into this model. This involves the transfer of certain roles to Switzerland, though the majority of UK-based roles will remain in the UK.\"When asked how much the company would save in tax, the spokesman replied: \"Yes, Switzerland is a tax-efficient location, but the business decision was about growing the top line of the company.\"Exactly how much the UK Exchequer will lose following Kraft's move may emerge over time. However, previous examples of similar moves provide a guide to the potential savings.In June 1999, the US food group PepsiCo transferred ownership of its Walkers crisps brands, built up in the UK over decades, out of England and into a Swiss subsidiary, Frito-Lay Trading GmbH. The British factories were reduced from a major profit centre to mere contract manufacturers, paid a margin over their costs by PepsiCo's Swiss trading company.The year before the transfer, Walkers Snack Foods was turning over \u00a3469m. This generated profits in the UK of \u00a391m and a tax bill of \u00a328m. But in 1999, the year the brands were sold, Walkers Snack Foods turnover almost halved, as did its profits, and the UK tax bill went down to \u00a314.7m.Kraft's plan differs slightly and the company insists that Cadbury brands will continue to be owned by a British company, which mirrors how accountants have previously arranged the US group's European businesses.Kraft \u2013 whose brands include Toblerone, Dairylea cheese triangles and Ritz crackers \u2013 pulled off a similar restructuring last year and Kraft Foods UK's 2009 accounts state: \"Until April 2009 the principal activity of the company was the manufacture and distribution of food products to the retail, food service and vending beverage market places ... The directors approved the sale of the assets and liabilities associated with Kraft Foods UK Ltd's service and procurement functions to the UK Branches of the Swiss entities, namely Kraft Foods Europe Procurement GmbH and Kraft Foods Europe Services GmbH ... After the completion of the restructuring Kraft Foods UK Ltd acts as a sales and distribution company selling Kraft Food products into the existing United Kingdom markets and customers.\"", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Tax avoidance", "Corporate governance", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Moving Cadbury HQ to Switzerland could save Kraft millions in UK tax"},{"date": "2010-11-26T16:24:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's renown as a tax oasis for the world's rich will come under threat this weekend with a proposal to impose minimal income levies on the ultra wealthy.Business leaders have warned that the plan by the centre-left Social Democrats (SP), which the Swiss will vote on in a referendum on Sunday, will prompt an exodus of rich residents and leave a gaping hole in the nation's economy.But SP argues it will merely bring Switzerland into line with other countries' tax regimes and create more fairness within the country.Switzerland's cantons, or states, attempt to attract the rich by undercutting each other on tax rates. It has made parts of the country magnets for the super rich, including business people, royals and about 5,000 celebrities.They include the singer Tina Turner, supermodel Karolina Kurkova and more recently the new Formula One champion Sebastian Vettel, who, as well as very low tax rates, typically enjoy high-end lifestyles in lakeside villas with spectacular mountain views and guaranteed privacy.Under SP's \"tax initiative\", incomes of 250,000 Swiss francs (\u00a3159,000) would incur minimum levies of 22% while assets of more than two million francs (\u00a31.27m) would be liable to 0.5%. If passed, the rule would apply to cantons across the country. At stake for cantons such as Schwyz, Zug and Obwalden are their special statuses as tax oases that cosset the rich like hardly any other nation.Residents of Zurich with an income of 350,000 francs pay around 110,000 of it to the taxman, while in Schwyz the rate is just half that.But public support for the plan, whose campaigners have tapped into anger over bankers' bonuses and political management of the financial crisis, has dropped from 58% to 46% in recent weeks, with Swiss business representatives warning it could drive thousands of executives and their businesses out of the country.A leading voice of the opponents is Alfred Schindler, the billionaire owner of the Schindler lift and escalator company, who has argued his personal tax rate will rise to a prohibitive 70% to 80% based on his earnings last year of 7.4 million francs (\u00a34.7m) and his assets.\"Switzerland is becoming a socialist land,\" Schindler said. \"While it means a lot to me, my tax rate would rise to over 70%, which is nothing less than expropriation and is not tolerable\". He has repeatedly threatened he will leave the country if the referendum is passed. \"I can be out of here before you know it,\" he told a newspaper.In reaction, SP's youth wing, Juso, sent the businessman a one-way ticket to Bulgaria, arguing that is the only other country in Europe where his taxes would be lower than at present.\"Let him emigrate,\" said David Roth, president of Juso in Lucerne, who disputes Schindler's claim that his tax rate would rise to 70 to 80%. \"He's deliberately miscalculated it,\" he said.Rudolf Strahm, a former federal price regulator and supporter of the initiative, said he doubted the rich would carry out their threats to leave as nowhere would be as comfortable for them as Switzerland. \"Where do these super rich think they're going to go? \" he said. \"Basically their options are Singapore and eastern Europe.\" He said the initiative had coincided with a growing swell of resentment towards Switzerland's \"tax tourism\", which \"the normal earners of this country reject and find loathsome\".Estate agents have also entered the fray, arguing that the move would have a chaotic effect on the country's property prices. \"It would mean a huge devaluation of house prices in communities where taxes are lower,\" said Donato Scognamiglio, the head IAZI, a property consultancy in Zurich .If the initiative is passed, Roger Federer, the tennis star and Swiss native who resides in the tax-friendly town of Wollerau in Schwyz, can expect the value of his luxury villa to fall by as much as 27%.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Super rich in Switzerland could lose tax breaks under 'socialist' proposals"},{"date": "2010-10-26T19:47:38Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Wealthy Britons could dodge \u00a340bn in tax payments after the UK agreed ahead of negotiations on a tax deal with Switzerland that the country could maintain its traditional banking secrecy.Thousands of higher rate taxpayers, who pay 50% tax on their income in the UK, will be allowed to keep their secret accounts in Zurich and Geneva and pay a low tax rate after the Treasury failed to secure agreement on sharing bank details.Proposals to make the deal retrospective were also rejected by the Swiss authorities, saving further large sums for wealthy UK residents.The Treasury said earlier this week that the agreement, due to be hammered out in the new year, would bring in extra revenues currently held in Swiss bank accounts beyond the reach of the UK exchequer. It is understood Treasury minister David Gauke, who will lead the negotiations, expects to raise more than \u00a31bn.But critics of the move said it amounted to a capitulation by the UK and showed the government was preparing to \"let wealthy investors off the hook\".Richard Murphy, head of Tax Research, said: \"No indication is given as to how these accounts are to be regularised. Indeed, there is no prospect they can be because the \u00a340bn or so of evaded assets will not have to be declared by name by the Swiss. In that case there is no prospect of UK interest or penalties being charged.\"In other words David Gauke has just announced his intention to sign a total tax amnesty for UK tax evaders who have used Switzerland. Given that penalties and interest would have added well over 100% to the tax bills it is highly likely that all these evaded assets should have been due to HM Treasury. But Gauke looks like he will give away the whole lot.\"Murphy is a former KPMG accountant who wrote a report for the TUC in 2008 detailing how wealthy individuals and corporations based in the UK were avoiding \u00a325bn a year in taxes. He said losses to the taxpayer could balloon over the next few years as more people move their accounts to Switzerland's lower tax regime.\"This could have knock on effects for British banks which lose their competitive edge to Swiss banks offering the same savings rates, but much lower taxes,\" he said. Murphy said the agreement amounted to Gauke handing British tax sovereignty to Switzerland.\"Why should we enter a deal that denies the UK tax authority the right to make inquiries about the tax affairs of a British person? Under this agreement the Swiss are granted the right to decide how many inquiries may be made and whether they are appropriate or not.\"A statement by the Swiss authorities said: \"During the exploratory talks, Switzerland and the UK agreed on a lasting solution which respects the protection of bank client privacy. Consequently, the automatic exchange of information will no longer be an issue in relations between the two states.The solution will apply after the entry into force of the agreement to be negotiated (no retroactive effect).\"At the moment many UK taxpayers are faced with a choice of declaring income based offshore and paying full tax or keeping it hidden from the authorities. Under the new regime, which could levy a tax rate as low as 20%, it will become legitimate to maintain an offshore account and pay the lower Swiss tax rate.HM Revenue & Customs has twice threatened savers with hidden offshore bank accounts with fines and penalties worth 100% of their tax bill. An amnesty in 2008 and 2009 persuaded just 10,000 of the 100,000 people with substantial offshore savings to come forward.Approximately \u00a3100bn\u2013\u00a3125bn of British investors' money is believed to be in Swiss banks.MEP Sharon Bowles, who chairs the European parliament's influential economic and monetary affairs committee, welcomed the deal but said she was concerned it lacked a retrospective element. She warned that Europe faced a \u20ac250bn (\u00a3223bn) tax fraud bill every year that governments must tackle.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Switzerland", "World news", "Banking", "Savings", "Money", "Europe"], "title": "Secrecy deal with Switzerland could let Britons avoid \u00a340bn in taxes"},{"date": "2010-10-20T14:30:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cleaning up after your dog is obviously a good thing, especially in towns, but the idea is relatively recent in Switzerland. This picture was taken in the canton of Bern, showing how such good behaviour is encouraged. While this is clearly something light-hearted that one should not read too much into, I thought it amusing and thought provoking.In the first place, it shows that even in a rather traditional and conservative country like Switzerland the theory of evolution is completely uncontroversial. Religion is still taken fairly seriously, particularly in the rural areas. It is also part of the identity mythos of some of the cantons. There is little evidence of fundamentalism however, and even in a Protestant canton like Bern evolution is obviously accepted.On the negative side, it shows the seduction of ideas about progress which have nothing to do with the theory of evolution. Another example is the way that illustrations of the \"tree of life\" nearly always have humans sitting right at the top. It seems that we humans instinctively feel that we are the most important and most advanced of species, and that we \"arose\" due to some sort of progressive process. In fact evolution says nothing of the sort; \"progress\" is in the eye of the beholder, and if a simplification would be an advantage, that is what evolution would favour. The mechanism is not directed at a preordained goal, only at the most efficient offspring right now. Having said that, it does tend to be directional. This has nothing to do with it being directed, but means that future adaptations can only work with the choices left by past adaptations: thus when mammals went back to the sea they didn't get gills back, but effectively found a way to hold their breath longer.Although the anthropocentric view of \"progress\" is less worrying than creationism in that it does not try to change the way science is taught, it is still incorrect and means that people like me are still not explaining it clearly enough to the wider public.", "tags": ["Evolution", "Science", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Progress, evolution, and dog mess in Switzerland | John Hollier"},{"date": "2010-12-23T14:36:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Two people were seriously hurt yesterday in postal bomb attacks on diplomatic missions in Rome.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, linked the blasts to a similar spate of bombings last month in Athens.The two victims were both working in embassy postrooms when packages blew up in their hands. Doctors who attended the two non-diplomatic employees said their injuries suggested that the explosive devices had been packed with metal.The first blast took place at the Swiss embassy. A couple of hours later, there was another at the Chilean mission.Last night an Italian anarchist group, the FAI or Informal Anarchist Federation, claimed responsibility for the blasts.One of the victims risked losing a hand, and the other an eye. Doctors said that neither was in danger of his life.Last night, the Swiss police said bomb disposal experts were examining a suspect package at the European Union's office in Berne. Some parts of the building had been evacuated, a spokesman said.In Rome, a packet reportedly similar to those that exploded was being examined at the Estonian embassy. There were also alerts at the Ukrainian and Slovenian embassies, but in both cases suspect packages were found to be harmless.Police in Rome said they had alerted all the city's embassies for them to take extra care with their post. The foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said that a message urging special attention had been dispatched to Italy's diplomatic missions overseas.The first victim was a 53-year-old Swiss national. Professor Nicolo Scuderi, who led a team at the Policlinico hospital operating on him, told the news agency AGI that the victim's worst injuries were to a hand which had \"practically exploded with the blast.\" Scuderi said the injured man also suffered wounds on the rest of his body from \"fragments of metal evidently put in the package\".The employee at the Chilean embassy, named in Santiago as Cesar Mella, lost two fingers and had injuries to his throat, face and an eye. The head of surgery at the Policlinico, Massimo Coletti, said a bolt had been removed from his throat.The Chilean ambassador, Oscar Godoy, said the packet bomb was addressed to the cultural attache. But, he added: \"We don't even know if the packet arrived by post or with a courier.\"Chilean and Swiss embassies were also targeted in postal bomb attacks last month on embassies in Athens and governments outside Greece. A Greek police official told Reuters news agency the authorities had stepped up checks of parcels at airports following the attacks in Italy. But he said that, contrary to an earlier report, they had not so far received a request for help from the Italian police.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Switzerland", "Chile", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Bombs explode at Switzerland and Chile embassies in Italy"},{"date": "2010-12-03T17:30:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Cadbury, the British confectionery company taken over by Kraft earlier this year, is being secretly restructured in a move that will help its new American owner avoid millions of pounds in UK taxes.Kraft is reorganising the Bournville-based manufacturer's UK business to allow much of the profit to be booked in Switzerland. The switch means the Dairy Milk manufacturer will pay a much lower rate of corporation tax and is likely to deprive the exchequer of millions of pounds in tax revenue. It mirrors previous changes to tax structures implemented at Kraft, as well as other large food groups.News of the restructuring is likely to prompt further debate about one of the most controversial takeovers of a British company, which raised issues about foreign ownership of UK assets and the job security of British workers. Kraft pledged to retain a key Cadbury factory in Somerdale, near Bristol, in order to win support for the \u00a311bn bid, only to announce its closure, with the loss of 400 jobs, just days after gaining control. Kraft boss Irene Rosenfeld then declined to appear in front of a committee of MPs investigating the takeover.The Kraft restructuring plan involves inserting a Swiss holding company above Cadbury's UK operations. The UK offshoots will then effectively become sales and manufacturing service businesses paid commissions by the parent. The British subsidiaries will almost certainly employ roughly the same number of people as under the old structure. However, as key staff are being relocated to Switzerland, and the UK companies will technically no longer own the raw materials or products they make and sell, much of the tax liability will be transferred to Zurich.Richard Murphy, a director at Tax Research UK, said: \"We have seen this kind of structure before with [crisp company] Walkers where, after being acquired, the UK operation is moved to a Swiss holding company. The advantages are twofold. First, if you actually locate the management in Switzerland, you'll have an argument with the Revenue but you can move profit from the UK and save tax. Second, as the brand is vital to profits, you can also transfer that value out of the UK to Switzerland. The UK company will then pay royalties to use the brand, which is also tax deductible.\"The Guardian understands that Kraft is still running accounting models to determine the best structure. It is expected to be implemented by the middle of next year, so it is not yet clear exactly how much tax Kraft will end up saving. However, in its last year as a public company, Cadbury accounts show the company paid \u00a3197m in taxes.The current corporation tax rate in the UK is 28%. In Zurich, where Kraft has its European headquarters, rates begin at 15%, although foreign holding companies using the canton as an administrative base can be exempt from tax on non-Swiss earnings. Businesses can also apply for \"mixed company tax privilege\" and agree a much reduced rate. Swiss federal corporation taxes are levied at a rate of 8%.A spokesman for Kraft confirmed: \"Since 2006 we have been implementing our European model involving a [holding] company based in Zurich together with local companies in country markets. The reorganisation has given us greater focus on our priority brands and has helped us grow faster. We are integrating Cadbury into this model. This involves the transfer of certain roles to Switzerland, though the majority of UK-based roles will remain in the UK.\"When asked how much the company would save in tax, the spokesman replied: \"Yes, Switzerland is a tax-efficient location, but the business decision was about growing the top line of the company.\"Exactly how much the UK Exchequer will lose following Kraft's move may emerge over time. However, previous examples of similar moves provide a guide to the potential savings.In June 1999, the US food group PepsiCo transferred ownership of its Walkers crisps brands, built up in the UK over decades, out of England and into a Swiss subsidiary, Frito-Lay Trading GmbH. The British factories were reduced from a major profit centre to mere contract manufacturers, paid a margin over their costs by PepsiCo's Swiss trading company.The year before the transfer, Walkers Snack Foods was turning over \u00a3469m. This generated profits in the UK of \u00a391m and a tax bill of \u00a328m. But in 1999, the year the brands were sold, Walkers Snack Foods turnover almost halved, as did its profits, and the UK tax bill went down to \u00a314.7m.Kraft's plan differs slightly and the company insists that Cadbury brands will continue to be owned by a British company, which mirrors how accountants have previously arranged the US group's European businesses.Kraft \u2013 whose brands include Toblerone, Dairylea cheese triangles and Ritz crackers \u2013 pulled off a similar restructuring last year and Kraft Foods UK's 2009 accounts state: \"Until April 2009 the principal activity of the company was the manufacture and distribution of food products to the retail, food service and vending beverage market places ... The directors approved the sale of the assets and liabilities associated with Kraft Foods UK Ltd's service and procurement functions to the UK Branches of the Swiss entities, namely Kraft Foods Europe Procurement GmbH and Kraft Foods Europe Services GmbH ... After the completion of the restructuring Kraft Foods UK Ltd acts as a sales and distribution company selling Kraft Food products into the existing United Kingdom markets and customers.\"", "tags": ["Cadbury", "Kraft", "Tax avoidance", "Corporate governance", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Moving Cadbury HQ to Switzerland could save Kraft millions in UK tax"},{"date": "2010-11-26T16:24:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's renown as a tax oasis for the world's rich will come under threat this weekend with a proposal to impose minimal income levies on the ultra wealthy.Business leaders have warned that the plan by the centre-left Social Democrats (SP), which the Swiss will vote on in a referendum on Sunday, will prompt an exodus of rich residents and leave a gaping hole in the nation's economy.But SP argues it will merely bring Switzerland into line with other countries' tax regimes and create more fairness within the country.Switzerland's cantons, or states, attempt to attract the rich by undercutting each other on tax rates. It has made parts of the country magnets for the super rich, including business people, royals and about 5,000 celebrities.They include the singer Tina Turner, supermodel Karolina Kurkova and more recently the new Formula One champion Sebastian Vettel, who, as well as very low tax rates, typically enjoy high-end lifestyles in lakeside villas with spectacular mountain views and guaranteed privacy.Under SP's \"tax initiative\", incomes of 250,000 Swiss francs (\u00a3159,000) would incur minimum levies of 22% while assets of more than two million francs (\u00a31.27m) would be liable to 0.5%. If passed, the rule would apply to cantons across the country. At stake for cantons such as Schwyz, Zug and Obwalden are their special statuses as tax oases that cosset the rich like hardly any other nation.Residents of Zurich with an income of 350,000 francs pay around 110,000 of it to the taxman, while in Schwyz the rate is just half that.But public support for the plan, whose campaigners have tapped into anger over bankers' bonuses and political management of the financial crisis, has dropped from 58% to 46% in recent weeks, with Swiss business representatives warning it could drive thousands of executives and their businesses out of the country.A leading voice of the opponents is Alfred Schindler, the billionaire owner of the Schindler lift and escalator company, who has argued his personal tax rate will rise to a prohibitive 70% to 80% based on his earnings last year of 7.4 million francs (\u00a34.7m) and his assets.\"Switzerland is becoming a socialist land,\" Schindler said. \"While it means a lot to me, my tax rate would rise to over 70%, which is nothing less than expropriation and is not tolerable\". He has repeatedly threatened he will leave the country if the referendum is passed. \"I can be out of here before you know it,\" he told a newspaper.In reaction, SP's youth wing, Juso, sent the businessman a one-way ticket to Bulgaria, arguing that is the only other country in Europe where his taxes would be lower than at present.\"Let him emigrate,\" said David Roth, president of Juso in Lucerne, who disputes Schindler's claim that his tax rate would rise to 70 to 80%. \"He's deliberately miscalculated it,\" he said.Rudolf Strahm, a former federal price regulator and supporter of the initiative, said he doubted the rich would carry out their threats to leave as nowhere would be as comfortable for them as Switzerland. \"Where do these super rich think they're going to go? \" he said. \"Basically their options are Singapore and eastern Europe.\" He said the initiative had coincided with a growing swell of resentment towards Switzerland's \"tax tourism\", which \"the normal earners of this country reject and find loathsome\".Estate agents have also entered the fray, arguing that the move would have a chaotic effect on the country's property prices. \"It would mean a huge devaluation of house prices in communities where taxes are lower,\" said Donato Scognamiglio, the head IAZI, a property consultancy in Zurich .If the initiative is passed, Roger Federer, the tennis star and Swiss native who resides in the tax-friendly town of Wollerau in Schwyz, can expect the value of his luxury villa to fall by as much as 27%.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Super rich in Switzerland could lose tax breaks under 'socialist' proposals"},{"date": "2010-10-26T19:47:38Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Wealthy Britons could dodge \u00a340bn in tax payments after the UK agreed ahead of negotiations on a tax deal with Switzerland that the country could maintain its traditional banking secrecy.Thousands of higher rate taxpayers, who pay 50% tax on their income in the UK, will be allowed to keep their secret accounts in Zurich and Geneva and pay a low tax rate after the Treasury failed to secure agreement on sharing bank details.Proposals to make the deal retrospective were also rejected by the Swiss authorities, saving further large sums for wealthy UK residents.The Treasury said earlier this week that the agreement, due to be hammered out in the new year, would bring in extra revenues currently held in Swiss bank accounts beyond the reach of the UK exchequer. It is understood Treasury minister David Gauke, who will lead the negotiations, expects to raise more than \u00a31bn.But critics of the move said it amounted to a capitulation by the UK and showed the government was preparing to \"let wealthy investors off the hook\".Richard Murphy, head of Tax Research, said: \"No indication is given as to how these accounts are to be regularised. Indeed, there is no prospect they can be because the \u00a340bn or so of evaded assets will not have to be declared by name by the Swiss. In that case there is no prospect of UK interest or penalties being charged.\"In other words David Gauke has just announced his intention to sign a total tax amnesty for UK tax evaders who have used Switzerland. Given that penalties and interest would have added well over 100% to the tax bills it is highly likely that all these evaded assets should have been due to HM Treasury. But Gauke looks like he will give away the whole lot.\"Murphy is a former KPMG accountant who wrote a report for the TUC in 2008 detailing how wealthy individuals and corporations based in the UK were avoiding \u00a325bn a year in taxes. He said losses to the taxpayer could balloon over the next few years as more people move their accounts to Switzerland's lower tax regime.\"This could have knock on effects for British banks which lose their competitive edge to Swiss banks offering the same savings rates, but much lower taxes,\" he said. Murphy said the agreement amounted to Gauke handing British tax sovereignty to Switzerland.\"Why should we enter a deal that denies the UK tax authority the right to make inquiries about the tax affairs of a British person? Under this agreement the Swiss are granted the right to decide how many inquiries may be made and whether they are appropriate or not.\"A statement by the Swiss authorities said: \"During the exploratory talks, Switzerland and the UK agreed on a lasting solution which respects the protection of bank client privacy. Consequently, the automatic exchange of information will no longer be an issue in relations between the two states.The solution will apply after the entry into force of the agreement to be negotiated (no retroactive effect).\"At the moment many UK taxpayers are faced with a choice of declaring income based offshore and paying full tax or keeping it hidden from the authorities. Under the new regime, which could levy a tax rate as low as 20%, it will become legitimate to maintain an offshore account and pay the lower Swiss tax rate.HM Revenue & Customs has twice threatened savers with hidden offshore bank accounts with fines and penalties worth 100% of their tax bill. An amnesty in 2008 and 2009 persuaded just 10,000 of the 100,000 people with substantial offshore savings to come forward.Approximately \u00a3100bn\u2013\u00a3125bn of British investors' money is believed to be in Swiss banks.MEP Sharon Bowles, who chairs the European parliament's influential economic and monetary affairs committee, welcomed the deal but said she was concerned it lacked a retrospective element. She warned that Europe faced a \u20ac250bn (\u00a3223bn) tax fraud bill every year that governments must tackle.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Switzerland", "World news", "Banking", "Savings", "Money", "Europe"], "title": "Secrecy deal with Switzerland could let Britons avoid \u00a340bn in taxes"},{"date": "2010-10-25T23:47:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Treasury expects a multimillion pound windfall after entering talks with the Swiss authorities over thousands of untaxed bank accounts.Switzerland has agreed to support the UK's efforts to tax offshore accounts in a move that mimics an earlier agreement with Liechtenstein.The development, which follows a long-running campaign backed by the Guardian to clamp down on tax evasion, is expected to raise \u00a31bn in extra revenues.It is understood negotiations opened recently between the two countries as part of a wider EU attack on secret bank accounts held in Switzerland.The UK expects to agree a withholding tax that would be applied by the Swiss authorities and sent to the UK exchequer.Negotiations are believed to be at an early stage and are likely to include calls for a broader exchange of information between Swiss banks and HM Revenue & Customs.Treasury sources stressed that it would not be revealing any details of tax rates, or amounts that might be raised.However, the number of people covered by an agreement would be likely to exceed the Liechtenstein deal and raise more than \u00a31bn. The initiative comes after two HMRC amnesties have failed to entice many wealthy taxpayers with offshore accounts to declare their taxable income.Last year HMRC began its second amnesty, promising to withdraw penalties if taxpayers declared their taxable income, mainly on investments. A 10% penalty was applied to taxpayers coming forward with details of offshore arrangements.At the time, the tax authority hinted it planned to use powers to parachute in investigators to question officials in tax havens.It is understood only 10% of the hoped-for 100,000 taxpayers came forward by the first deadline. HMRC officials said around 1,100 came forward by the second deadline in January, after which officials said a 100% penalty would apply to all unpaid offshore tax bills.Swiss officials have previously refused to bow to demands for records unless HMRC provided a name and details of the local bank under investigation. Without the details HMRC was powerless to see the interest earned by individuals and deposited in Swiss banks.The Treasury is understood to believe that a deal with the Swiss is the only route to generating any tax from Britons with offshore accounts in the country. A discussion of tax on interest earned in the past was also on the table.Germany has also started talks with the Swiss in a move that could potentially reap multibillion pound tax benefits.Earlier this year an amnesty by the Rome tax authorities led to more than \u20ac15bn returning from Swiss banks to Italy.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Economic policy", "Switzerland", "Tax and spending", "Liechtenstein", "Europe"], "title": "Treasury to get \u00a31bn windfall in Swiss deal over secret bank accounts"},{"date": "2011-02-11T16:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland votes on Sunday in a referendum on whether to tighten its gun laws in an attempt to reduce its high firearms suicide rate.Switzerland has some of the most liberal weapons ownership rules in the western world, with an estimated 2.3m guns between its 8 million people.The proposal faces stiff resistance from gun enthusiasts in a nation where the right to bear arms is firmly linked to the national myth of William Tell, the Swiss marksman who \u2013 as well as the incident with the apple \u2013 killed an enemy with his crossbow.The result, say anti-gun campaigners, is that it has the highest rate of firearms suicides in Europe \u2013 about a quarter of Switzerland's 1,300 suicides each year involve a gun, according to federal statistics.Most firearms are owned by ex-soldiers who, by a quirk of tradition, are allowed to keep their weapons after military service ends. Campaigners want all military-issued guns to be stored in secure army depots rather than in people's homes.Reformers also want a national gun registry and a ban on the sale of fully automatic weapons and pump-action rifles. Such policies, they claim, would help prevent rampages such as that in the town of Zug in 2001, when 14 people were shot dead at a local government meeting. The perpetrator, Friedrich Leibacher, who also killed himself, used a commercial version of the Swiss army's SG 550 assault rifle, a gun commonly found throughout the country, hidden in cupboards or stored under beds.\"If you make firearms less accessible there will be fewer suicides. It's that simple,\" said Elsa Kurz of the Geneva-based organisation Stop Suicide.But the head of Switzerland's sport shooting association, which represents 3,000 gun clubs, said a change in the law would damage the social fabric.\"In our democracy, the clubs are a very important pillar of the community,\" said Dora Andres, who keeps an assault rifle at home. \"If you don't have clubs, where are you going to meet and talk to people? On Facebook?\"Another vocal minority claims the vote endangers the weak federal government and Switzerland's unique system of popular rule expressed in endless referendums.\"The real purpose of this initiative is to weaken the militia army and withdraw the state's confidence in its citizens,\" said Markus M\u00fcller, spokesman for a group of senior Swiss military officers.He called the proposal a leftwing conspiracy to weaken Swiss democracy. \"Only a disarmed people can be oppressed. That's why we're against this,\" he said.The exact number of military-issued weapons involved in Swiss suicides remains disputed, but those calling for tighter rules claim they account for between 100 and 200 a year, mostly among men. Reformers also note that since Switzerland cut the size of its army in 2004, the number of firearms suicides among men aged 30-40 has halved.A recent poll found 47% for the proposal, with 45% opposed.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Suicide rates"], "title": "Switzerland to vote on gun law reform"},{"date": "2011-02-11T16:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland votes on Sunday in a referendum on whether to tighten its gun laws in an attempt to reduce its high firearms suicide rate.Switzerland has some of the most liberal weapons ownership rules in the western world, with an estimated 2.3m guns between its 8 million people.The proposal faces stiff resistance from gun enthusiasts in a nation where the right to bear arms is firmly linked to the national myth of William Tell, the Swiss marksman who \u2013 as well as the incident with the apple \u2013 killed an enemy with his crossbow.The result, say anti-gun campaigners, is that it has the highest rate of firearms suicides in Europe \u2013 about a quarter of Switzerland's 1,300 suicides each year involve a gun, according to federal statistics.Most firearms are owned by ex-soldiers who, by a quirk of tradition, are allowed to keep their weapons after military service ends. Campaigners want all military-issued guns to be stored in secure army depots rather than in people's homes.Reformers also want a national gun registry and a ban on the sale of fully automatic weapons and pump-action rifles. Such policies, they claim, would help prevent rampages such as that in the town of Zug in 2001, when 14 people were shot dead at a local government meeting. The perpetrator, Friedrich Leibacher, who also killed himself, used a commercial version of the Swiss army's SG 550 assault rifle, a gun commonly found throughout the country, hidden in cupboards or stored under beds.\"If you make firearms less accessible there will be fewer suicides. It's that simple,\" said Elsa Kurz of the Geneva-based organisation Stop Suicide.But the head of Switzerland's sport shooting association, which represents 3,000 gun clubs, said a change in the law would damage the social fabric.\"In our democracy, the clubs are a very important pillar of the community,\" said Dora Andres, who keeps an assault rifle at home. \"If you don't have clubs, where are you going to meet and talk to people? On Facebook?\"Another vocal minority claims the vote endangers the weak federal government and Switzerland's unique system of popular rule expressed in endless referendums.\"The real purpose of this initiative is to weaken the militia army and withdraw the state's confidence in its citizens,\" said Markus M\u00fcller, spokesman for a group of senior Swiss military officers.He called the proposal a leftwing conspiracy to weaken Swiss democracy. \"Only a disarmed people can be oppressed. That's why we're against this,\" he said.The exact number of military-issued weapons involved in Swiss suicides remains disputed, but those calling for tighter rules claim they account for between 100 and 200 a year, mostly among men. Reformers also note that since Switzerland cut the size of its army in 2004, the number of firearms suicides among men aged 30-40 has halved.A recent poll found 47% for the proposal, with 45% opposed.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Suicide rates"], "title": "Switzerland to vote on gun law reform"},{"date": "2011-02-06T21:09:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "George W Bush has had to call off a trip to Switzerland next weekend amid planned protests by human rights groups over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo Bay and the threat of a warrant for his arrest.David Sherzer, a spokesman for the former US president, confirmed the move in an email to the Associated Press. \"We regret that the speech has been cancelled,\" he said. \"President Bush was looking forward to speaking about freedom and offering reflections from his time in office.\"The visit would have been Bush's first to Europe since he admitted in his autobiography, Decision Points, in November that he had authorised the use of waterboarding \u2013 simulated drowning \u2013 on detainees at Guant\u00e1namo accused of links with al-Qaida. Whether out of concern over the protests or the arrest warrant, it is an extraordinary development for a former US president to have his travel plans curtailed in this way, and amounts to a victory for human rights campaigners.Since the arrest of the late Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998, international leaders can no longer be confident of immunity. Israeli politicians have cancelled trips to London and elsewhere for fear of arrest warrants.Bush had been due to deliver a speech at a dinner in Geneva organised by the United Israel Appeal, a US-based organisation that helps Jews move to Israel. Robert Equey, the organisation's lawyer, was quoted by the Swiss daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve at the weekend saying that the decision to abandon the speech was because of concern that the protests might lead to violence, not fear of an arrest warrant.\"The calls to demonstrate were sliding into dangerous terrain,\" Equey said. \"The organisers claimed to be able to maintain order, but warned they could not be held responsible for any outbursts.\" The threat of an arrest warrant had not been a factor in the decision. The Centre for Constitutional Rights, the human rights group seeking an arrest warrant, said: \"Whatever Bush or his hosts say, we have no doubt he cancelled his trip to avoid our case.\"Human rights campaigners said they would seek arrest warrants wherever Bush planned to travel outside the US.Folco Galli, a spokesman for the Swiss justice ministry, told the Associated Press that the department's initial assessment was that Bush would have enjoyed immunity from prosecution for any actions taken while in office.But Amnesty International said today that it had sent a detailed factual and legal analysis to Swiss prosecutors, claiming there was sufficient information to open a criminal investigation.\"Such an investigation would be mandatory under Switzerland's international obligations if President Bush entered the country,\" Amnesty said.It added: \"Anywhere in the world that he travels, President Bush could face investigation and potential prosecution for his responsibility for torture and other crimes in international law, particularly in any of the 147 countries that are party to the UN convention against torture.\"Organisers of the protest had called on participants to bring a shoe, commemorating the Iraqi journalist who threw one at Bush during a 2008 press conference in Baghdad, to a rally outside the hotel where Bush was due to speak.Human rights groups had planned to submit a 2,500-page case against Bush in Geneva tomorrow over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo. The Bush administration claims that waterboarding does not amount to torture, but human rights organisations and the Obama administration have said it does.The document will no longer be filed in court but will be released at a media event. It focuses on two former Guant\u00e1namo Bay detainees, Majid Khan and former al-Jazeera correspondent Sami el-Hajj. Speaking before the cancellation of the visit, lawyers for the two said the trip was the first opportunity for the former president to face the legal consequences of authorising waterboarding and other techniques.\"What we have in Switzerland is a Pinochet opportunity,\" said Gavin Sullivan, lawyer for the European Centre for Constitutional and Human Rights, backing the claim together with the US-based Centre for Constitutional Rights.\"Bush enjoys no immunity from prosecution. As head of state he authorised and condoned acts of torture, and the law is clear \u2013 where a person has been responsible for torture, all states have an obligation under international law to open an investigation and prosecute.\" He added: \"Bush will be pursued wherever he goes as a war criminal and torturer.\"Legal proceedings under way in Spain accuse White House legal advisers, known as the Bush Six, of criminal wrongdoing for advising that the techniques were legal.\"Nobody \u2013 from those who administered the practices to those at the top of the chain of command \u2013 is under a shield of absolute immunity for the practices of secret detention, extraordinary rendition and torture,\" said Martin Scheinin, UN special rapporteur on human rights and professor of public international law at the European University Institute. \"Legally this case is quite clear. Bush does not enjoy immunity as a former head of state, and he has command responsibility for the decisions that were taken.\"The arrest of the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998 ended the immunity leaders had largely enjoyed. Britain had no choice but to act on an extradition request by Spain over the murders of Spanish citizens in Chile when he was in power.The targeting of US politicians began in earnest during the Bush administration after the opening of Guant\u00e1namo Bay detention centre, the invasion of Iraq and revelations of secret CIA prisons overseas and rendition flights.In 2005, the then US secretary of state, Donald Rumsfeld, was threatened with arrest in Germany for war crimes relating to abuses at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Rumsfeld threatened to pull out of a prestigious defence conference in Munich until German prosecutors assured him that he would not be apprehended.Israeli politicians have also been the subject of arrest attempts on visits to Europe. A British court issued a warrant in 2009 for Israel's then foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, below, on behalf of Palestinian victims. But she postponed her trip to London, saying scheduling problems were to blame.Another Israeli politician, deputy prime minister Dan Meridor, cancelled a trip to London last year after being told he may face an arrest warrant or some other legal action, apparently over the Israeli killing of Turkish activists on a ship bound for Gaza.", "tags": ["Human rights", "Law", "George Bush", "World news", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "George Bush calls off trip to Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-02-11T16:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland votes on Sunday in a referendum on whether to tighten its gun laws in an attempt to reduce its high firearms suicide rate.Switzerland has some of the most liberal weapons ownership rules in the western world, with an estimated 2.3m guns between its 8 million people.The proposal faces stiff resistance from gun enthusiasts in a nation where the right to bear arms is firmly linked to the national myth of William Tell, the Swiss marksman who \u2013 as well as the incident with the apple \u2013 killed an enemy with his crossbow.The result, say anti-gun campaigners, is that it has the highest rate of firearms suicides in Europe \u2013 about a quarter of Switzerland's 1,300 suicides each year involve a gun, according to federal statistics.Most firearms are owned by ex-soldiers who, by a quirk of tradition, are allowed to keep their weapons after military service ends. Campaigners want all military-issued guns to be stored in secure army depots rather than in people's homes.Reformers also want a national gun registry and a ban on the sale of fully automatic weapons and pump-action rifles. Such policies, they claim, would help prevent rampages such as that in the town of Zug in 2001, when 14 people were shot dead at a local government meeting. The perpetrator, Friedrich Leibacher, who also killed himself, used a commercial version of the Swiss army's SG 550 assault rifle, a gun commonly found throughout the country, hidden in cupboards or stored under beds.\"If you make firearms less accessible there will be fewer suicides. It's that simple,\" said Elsa Kurz of the Geneva-based organisation Stop Suicide.But the head of Switzerland's sport shooting association, which represents 3,000 gun clubs, said a change in the law would damage the social fabric.\"In our democracy, the clubs are a very important pillar of the community,\" said Dora Andres, who keeps an assault rifle at home. \"If you don't have clubs, where are you going to meet and talk to people? On Facebook?\"Another vocal minority claims the vote endangers the weak federal government and Switzerland's unique system of popular rule expressed in endless referendums.\"The real purpose of this initiative is to weaken the militia army and withdraw the state's confidence in its citizens,\" said Markus M\u00fcller, spokesman for a group of senior Swiss military officers.He called the proposal a leftwing conspiracy to weaken Swiss democracy. \"Only a disarmed people can be oppressed. That's why we're against this,\" he said.The exact number of military-issued weapons involved in Swiss suicides remains disputed, but those calling for tighter rules claim they account for between 100 and 200 a year, mostly among men. Reformers also note that since Switzerland cut the size of its army in 2004, the number of firearms suicides among men aged 30-40 has halved.A recent poll found 47% for the proposal, with 45% opposed.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Suicide rates"], "title": "Switzerland to vote on gun law reform"},{"date": "2011-02-06T21:09:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "George W Bush has had to call off a trip to Switzerland next weekend amid planned protests by human rights groups over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo Bay and the threat of a warrant for his arrest.David Sherzer, a spokesman for the former US president, confirmed the move in an email to the Associated Press. \"We regret that the speech has been cancelled,\" he said. \"President Bush was looking forward to speaking about freedom and offering reflections from his time in office.\"The visit would have been Bush's first to Europe since he admitted in his autobiography, Decision Points, in November that he had authorised the use of waterboarding \u2013 simulated drowning \u2013 on detainees at Guant\u00e1namo accused of links with al-Qaida. Whether out of concern over the protests or the arrest warrant, it is an extraordinary development for a former US president to have his travel plans curtailed in this way, and amounts to a victory for human rights campaigners.Since the arrest of the late Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998, international leaders can no longer be confident of immunity. Israeli politicians have cancelled trips to London and elsewhere for fear of arrest warrants.Bush had been due to deliver a speech at a dinner in Geneva organised by the United Israel Appeal, a US-based organisation that helps Jews move to Israel. Robert Equey, the organisation's lawyer, was quoted by the Swiss daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve at the weekend saying that the decision to abandon the speech was because of concern that the protests might lead to violence, not fear of an arrest warrant.\"The calls to demonstrate were sliding into dangerous terrain,\" Equey said. \"The organisers claimed to be able to maintain order, but warned they could not be held responsible for any outbursts.\" The threat of an arrest warrant had not been a factor in the decision. The Centre for Constitutional Rights, the human rights group seeking an arrest warrant, said: \"Whatever Bush or his hosts say, we have no doubt he cancelled his trip to avoid our case.\"Human rights campaigners said they would seek arrest warrants wherever Bush planned to travel outside the US.Folco Galli, a spokesman for the Swiss justice ministry, told the Associated Press that the department's initial assessment was that Bush would have enjoyed immunity from prosecution for any actions taken while in office.But Amnesty International said today that it had sent a detailed factual and legal analysis to Swiss prosecutors, claiming there was sufficient information to open a criminal investigation.\"Such an investigation would be mandatory under Switzerland's international obligations if President Bush entered the country,\" Amnesty said.It added: \"Anywhere in the world that he travels, President Bush could face investigation and potential prosecution for his responsibility for torture and other crimes in international law, particularly in any of the 147 countries that are party to the UN convention against torture.\"Organisers of the protest had called on participants to bring a shoe, commemorating the Iraqi journalist who threw one at Bush during a 2008 press conference in Baghdad, to a rally outside the hotel where Bush was due to speak.Human rights groups had planned to submit a 2,500-page case against Bush in Geneva tomorrow over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo. The Bush administration claims that waterboarding does not amount to torture, but human rights organisations and the Obama administration have said it does.The document will no longer be filed in court but will be released at a media event. It focuses on two former Guant\u00e1namo Bay detainees, Majid Khan and former al-Jazeera correspondent Sami el-Hajj. Speaking before the cancellation of the visit, lawyers for the two said the trip was the first opportunity for the former president to face the legal consequences of authorising waterboarding and other techniques.\"What we have in Switzerland is a Pinochet opportunity,\" said Gavin Sullivan, lawyer for the European Centre for Constitutional and Human Rights, backing the claim together with the US-based Centre for Constitutional Rights.\"Bush enjoys no immunity from prosecution. As head of state he authorised and condoned acts of torture, and the law is clear \u2013 where a person has been responsible for torture, all states have an obligation under international law to open an investigation and prosecute.\" He added: \"Bush will be pursued wherever he goes as a war criminal and torturer.\"Legal proceedings under way in Spain accuse White House legal advisers, known as the Bush Six, of criminal wrongdoing for advising that the techniques were legal.\"Nobody \u2013 from those who administered the practices to those at the top of the chain of command \u2013 is under a shield of absolute immunity for the practices of secret detention, extraordinary rendition and torture,\" said Martin Scheinin, UN special rapporteur on human rights and professor of public international law at the European University Institute. \"Legally this case is quite clear. Bush does not enjoy immunity as a former head of state, and he has command responsibility for the decisions that were taken.\"The arrest of the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998 ended the immunity leaders had largely enjoyed. Britain had no choice but to act on an extradition request by Spain over the murders of Spanish citizens in Chile when he was in power.The targeting of US politicians began in earnest during the Bush administration after the opening of Guant\u00e1namo Bay detention centre, the invasion of Iraq and revelations of secret CIA prisons overseas and rendition flights.In 2005, the then US secretary of state, Donald Rumsfeld, was threatened with arrest in Germany for war crimes relating to abuses at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Rumsfeld threatened to pull out of a prestigious defence conference in Munich until German prosecutors assured him that he would not be apprehended.Israeli politicians have also been the subject of arrest attempts on visits to Europe. A British court issued a warrant in 2009 for Israel's then foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, below, on behalf of Palestinian victims. But she postponed her trip to London, saying scheduling problems were to blame.Another Israeli politician, deputy prime minister Dan Meridor, cancelled a trip to London last year after being told he may face an arrest warrant or some other legal action, apparently over the Israeli killing of Turkish activists on a ship bound for Gaza.", "tags": ["Human rights", "Law", "George Bush", "World news", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "George Bush calls off trip to Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-01-11T16:26:30Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 04 BERN 000141  SIPDIS  SIPDIS  STATE FOR S/CT, EB, EUR/AGS  FBI FOR OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS  TREASURY FOR OFAC  E.O. 12958: DECL: 01/20/2016  TAGS: PTER, PARM, ETTC, SZ  SUBJECT: SWISS COUNTERTERRORISM OVERVIEW - SCENESETTER FOR FBI DIRECTOR MUELLER  REF: A. BERN 100  B. BERN 10  C. 2005 BERN 1865Classified By: Pol/Econ Counselor Eric Sandberg, Reasons 1.4 b/d1.(C) Summary: Switzerland and Liechtenstein are considered low-threat target for terrorist attacks, but Bern acknowledges that Islamist groups could use the country as a transit point, logistics center, or haven for terrorist finances. While violent crime in both countries is relatively low, officials remain concerned about international organized criminal groups and extreme right-wing and left-wing political elements who occasionally mobilize for demonstrations surrounding major events, such as the annual World Economic Forum in Davos. Swiss officials maintain that there are few Islamic extremists in the country, but a small number of arrests in the past two years suggests there may be more under the surface. Bilateral law enforcement and intelligence cooperation is improving, but at a gradual pace; Swiss leaders insist that they can address the threat with little outside assistance. The Swiss media and individual members of Parliament have placed a greater focus on alleged USG wrongdoings in the War on Terror than on the terrorist threat itself. As for Liechtenstein, officials work very cooperatively with USG counterparts, as they seek to ameliorate their reputation as a money-laundering center. End Summary.Anti-Terror Measures--------------------2.(U) Switzerland implemented UN sanctions even prior to becoming a full member in 2002. Along with UN lists, the Swiss Economic and Finance ministries have drawn up their own list of around 44 individuals and entities connected with international terrorism (Al-Qaeda) or its financing. Swiss authorities have thus far blocked about 82 accounts totaling $28 million (SFr 34 million) from individuals or companies linked to Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda under UN resolutions. The Swiss Federal Prosecutor also froze separately 41 accounts representing about $28 million (SFr 34 millions) on the ground they were related to terrorist financing. Swiss officials estimate significant overlap between the US and UN lists. Switzerland signed and ratified all of the 12 UN anti-terrorism conventions as of September 2003.3.(U) For its part, Liechtenstein has frozen about $145 thousand in Taliban/Al-Qaeda assets under UNSC Resolution 1267. The principality has taken notable strides to combat money laundering and other illegal activity since 1999; it joined the Egmont Group in 2001, signed a mutual legal assistance treaty with the United States in 2003, and was FATF certified that same year. Liechtenstein has also ratified all of the relevant UN conventions.Bilateral Cooperation---------------------4.(C) Following 9/11, the Swiss agreed to sign an operative working agreement (OWA) with the USG permitting intensified information sharing on Al-Qaeda and allowing an FBI agent to sit in the Federal Criminal Police Counterterrorism Unit. We are in the final stages of negotiating a broadened OWA to allow joint investigations on counterterrorism matters. As forthcoming as some contacts are, the Swiss law enforcement community in general remain reluctant to open up to the United States. The sentiment was expressed best by Justice Minister Blocher to the Ambassador. Blocher said that Switzerland shared America's counterterrorism goals; Switzerland will worry about Switzerland, and the U.S. can worry about the rest of the world. The least cooperative Swiss agency (with us and with other Swiss agencies) is the Federal Service for Analysis and Prevention (DAP) -- the internal intelligence service. The external service, under the Swiss Department of Defense, is more cooperative.5.(C) In many ways, Liechtenstein officials are a model of what we wish the Swiss would become. Shocked by the international notoriety it earned in the 1990s, officials in the tiny principality decided to join FATF and cooperate with partners. The MLAT it signed with the United States in 2003 BERN 00000141 002 OF 004 was the first of its kind for Liechtenstein. They make as much use of it as do our law enforcement agencies.Significant counterterrorism investigations-------------------------------------------6.(C) Swiss prosecutors have launched several investigations of suspected Al-Qaeda operatives in Switzerland. XXXXXXXXXXXXMuslims in Switzerland ----------------------7.(U) The Muslim population in Switzerland has grown rapidly BERN 00000141 003.2 OF 004 in the last two decades, now reaching around 310,000, or 4.3 percenQ the Swiss population. The majority of these, roughly 200,000, come from former Yugoslavia and tend to be moderate or secular in their views. Another 70,000 are of Turkish background, have long been in Switzerland, and are also moderate. Only the North African population, largely from Morocco, are seen as a possible source of Islamic extremism. There are no Islamic political parties in Switzerland; the Muslim population is divided along ethnic lines. There are only two mosque buildings in SwitzerlandQn Zurich aQeneva), but over a hundred makeshift Islamic centers operate.8.(SBU) While Swiss authorities recognize that the Muslim population could contain extremists, they rate the threat from right-wing Neo-nazis and left-wing Swiss political extremists as being much higher. Swiss authorities believe that those Islamists present consider the country a \"refuge\" rather than a \"place to carry out operations.\" A Special Report on Extremism issued late last year maintains that almost all radical groups represented in Switzerland are Sunni organizations whose primary goals are the establishment of Islamic governments in their homelands. The principal groups in this category are En Nahdha, the Tunisian Islamic Front, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), the Armed Islamic Group (GIA), the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), Hamas, Hizbollah and Al-Takfir wal-Hijra.9.(C) The best known Islamists in Switzerland are the Ramadans, Tariq and Hani, of the Islamic Center in Geneva. Tariq Ramadan, formerly a professor of philosophy and grandson of Muslim Brotherhood found Hassan al-Bana, is well-known throughout Europe. He is sometimes hailed as a moderate, at other times attacked as a wolf in sheep's clothing, putting a palatable front to fundamentalist activities. Offered a teaching position at Notre Dame University in 2004, his visa was revoked by DHS, and he withdrew a subsequent application. The UK Government has included Ramadan in an advisory body to assist in their outreach efforts with its Muslim minority.10.(U) Hani Ramadan was suspended from his duties as a public school teacher in the fall of 2002, following the publication of an article in the French newspaper \"Le Monde,\" in which he spoke out in favor of the stoning of adulterers. He was dismissed in 2003, following an administrative investigation, but he successfully appealed the decision. However, following a second investigation, the Geneva Cantonal Government confirmed Ramadan's dismissal and removed him from the cantonal payroll in December 2004. In October 2005, the Swiss Justice Ministry denied a work permit to a Turkish Imam invited to work at the Islamic Center in Geneva, due to the Imam's extremist views.Swiss Media Push-back on the War on Terrorism--------------------------------------------- -11.(C) Since the Washington Post claimed in early November 2005 that the United States was operating hidden prisons in Europe, the Swiss media has gone full bore in identifying USG sins, real and imagined. Any news on Guantanamo or Abu Ghraib is guaranteed front-page treatment, whereas Al-Qaeda attacks are relegated to the back pages. Of particular concern is the issue of overflights by alleged CIA charter planes. Italian prosecutors allege that a U.S. military jet traversed Swiss airspace on the day Milan cleric Abu Omar was kidnapped. The Swiss government has repeatedly asked the USG to explain the flight and four charter plane landings at Geneva Airport. Washington has yet to respond.12.(C) Recently, a Swiss tabloid published a leaked Swiss intelligence report of an intercept of an Egyptian government fax. The Swiss Federal Council has condemned the leak and its subsequent publication, and the government has launched administrative and criminal investigations into the matter. The intercepted Egyptian fax claimed that the Egyptian government knew of 23 Iraqi and Afghani prisoners transferred by the USG to prisons in Romania and other Eastern European countries. Swiss officials apologized to Ambassador Willeford for the leak and for the press's overreaction to it. The Ambassador cautioned officials that Switzerland'sBERN 00000141 004 OF 004obsession with the prisons/overflight matter -- driven in significant measure by Swiss Senator Dick Marty -- risked overwhelming Washington's perceptions of Switzerland. Marty, acting in his capacity as head of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly's Justice Commission and not in any official Swiss government capacity, greeted the information cautiously, but criticized the Swiss and other European governments for not disclosing information on the prisoner issue.Comment -------13.(C) Comment: Despite being somewhat shaken by attacks in London and Madrid, the Swiss internal security service continues to assess that Switzerland is relatively safe and that there is no evidence yet of any activity beyond logistical support for Islamic extremists. Swiss opinion leaders among the Parliament and media exhibit little evident concern about the terrorist threat to Switzerland, perhaps contributing to their tendency to focus their criticism on the USG reaction, rather than the initial threat itself. Embassy engagement with Swiss counterparts, reinforced by senior-level visits by USG officials, are helping to move the Swiss to be more forthcoming on information sharing and joint investigations. Absent a direct attack on Swiss interests, however, the process is liable to move very gradually. End comment. Willeford", "tags": ["Switzerland", "The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Switzerland and counter-terrorism"},{"date": "2011-02-11T16:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland votes on Sunday in a referendum on whether to tighten its gun laws in an attempt to reduce its high firearms suicide rate.Switzerland has some of the most liberal weapons ownership rules in the western world, with an estimated 2.3m guns between its 8 million people.The proposal faces stiff resistance from gun enthusiasts in a nation where the right to bear arms is firmly linked to the national myth of William Tell, the Swiss marksman who \u2013 as well as the incident with the apple \u2013 killed an enemy with his crossbow.The result, say anti-gun campaigners, is that it has the highest rate of firearms suicides in Europe \u2013 about a quarter of Switzerland's 1,300 suicides each year involve a gun, according to federal statistics.Most firearms are owned by ex-soldiers who, by a quirk of tradition, are allowed to keep their weapons after military service ends. Campaigners want all military-issued guns to be stored in secure army depots rather than in people's homes.Reformers also want a national gun registry and a ban on the sale of fully automatic weapons and pump-action rifles. Such policies, they claim, would help prevent rampages such as that in the town of Zug in 2001, when 14 people were shot dead at a local government meeting. The perpetrator, Friedrich Leibacher, who also killed himself, used a commercial version of the Swiss army's SG 550 assault rifle, a gun commonly found throughout the country, hidden in cupboards or stored under beds.\"If you make firearms less accessible there will be fewer suicides. It's that simple,\" said Elsa Kurz of the Geneva-based organisation Stop Suicide.But the head of Switzerland's sport shooting association, which represents 3,000 gun clubs, said a change in the law would damage the social fabric.\"In our democracy, the clubs are a very important pillar of the community,\" said Dora Andres, who keeps an assault rifle at home. \"If you don't have clubs, where are you going to meet and talk to people? On Facebook?\"Another vocal minority claims the vote endangers the weak federal government and Switzerland's unique system of popular rule expressed in endless referendums.\"The real purpose of this initiative is to weaken the militia army and withdraw the state's confidence in its citizens,\" said Markus M\u00fcller, spokesman for a group of senior Swiss military officers.He called the proposal a leftwing conspiracy to weaken Swiss democracy. \"Only a disarmed people can be oppressed. That's why we're against this,\" he said.The exact number of military-issued weapons involved in Swiss suicides remains disputed, but those calling for tighter rules claim they account for between 100 and 200 a year, mostly among men. Reformers also note that since Switzerland cut the size of its army in 2004, the number of firearms suicides among men aged 30-40 has halved.A recent poll found 47% for the proposal, with 45% opposed.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Suicide rates"], "title": "Switzerland to vote on gun law reform"},{"date": "2011-02-06T21:09:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "George W Bush has had to call off a trip to Switzerland next weekend amid planned protests by human rights groups over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo Bay and the threat of a warrant for his arrest.David Sherzer, a spokesman for the former US president, confirmed the move in an email to the Associated Press. \"We regret that the speech has been cancelled,\" he said. \"President Bush was looking forward to speaking about freedom and offering reflections from his time in office.\"The visit would have been Bush's first to Europe since he admitted in his autobiography, Decision Points, in November that he had authorised the use of waterboarding \u2013 simulated drowning \u2013 on detainees at Guant\u00e1namo accused of links with al-Qaida. Whether out of concern over the protests or the arrest warrant, it is an extraordinary development for a former US president to have his travel plans curtailed in this way, and amounts to a victory for human rights campaigners.Since the arrest of the late Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998, international leaders can no longer be confident of immunity. Israeli politicians have cancelled trips to London and elsewhere for fear of arrest warrants.Bush had been due to deliver a speech at a dinner in Geneva organised by the United Israel Appeal, a US-based organisation that helps Jews move to Israel. Robert Equey, the organisation's lawyer, was quoted by the Swiss daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve at the weekend saying that the decision to abandon the speech was because of concern that the protests might lead to violence, not fear of an arrest warrant.\"The calls to demonstrate were sliding into dangerous terrain,\" Equey said. \"The organisers claimed to be able to maintain order, but warned they could not be held responsible for any outbursts.\" The threat of an arrest warrant had not been a factor in the decision. The Centre for Constitutional Rights, the human rights group seeking an arrest warrant, said: \"Whatever Bush or his hosts say, we have no doubt he cancelled his trip to avoid our case.\"Human rights campaigners said they would seek arrest warrants wherever Bush planned to travel outside the US.Folco Galli, a spokesman for the Swiss justice ministry, told the Associated Press that the department's initial assessment was that Bush would have enjoyed immunity from prosecution for any actions taken while in office.But Amnesty International said today that it had sent a detailed factual and legal analysis to Swiss prosecutors, claiming there was sufficient information to open a criminal investigation.\"Such an investigation would be mandatory under Switzerland's international obligations if President Bush entered the country,\" Amnesty said.It added: \"Anywhere in the world that he travels, President Bush could face investigation and potential prosecution for his responsibility for torture and other crimes in international law, particularly in any of the 147 countries that are party to the UN convention against torture.\"Organisers of the protest had called on participants to bring a shoe, commemorating the Iraqi journalist who threw one at Bush during a 2008 press conference in Baghdad, to a rally outside the hotel where Bush was due to speak.Human rights groups had planned to submit a 2,500-page case against Bush in Geneva tomorrow over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo. The Bush administration claims that waterboarding does not amount to torture, but human rights organisations and the Obama administration have said it does.The document will no longer be filed in court but will be released at a media event. It focuses on two former Guant\u00e1namo Bay detainees, Majid Khan and former al-Jazeera correspondent Sami el-Hajj. Speaking before the cancellation of the visit, lawyers for the two said the trip was the first opportunity for the former president to face the legal consequences of authorising waterboarding and other techniques.\"What we have in Switzerland is a Pinochet opportunity,\" said Gavin Sullivan, lawyer for the European Centre for Constitutional and Human Rights, backing the claim together with the US-based Centre for Constitutional Rights.\"Bush enjoys no immunity from prosecution. As head of state he authorised and condoned acts of torture, and the law is clear \u2013 where a person has been responsible for torture, all states have an obligation under international law to open an investigation and prosecute.\" He added: \"Bush will be pursued wherever he goes as a war criminal and torturer.\"Legal proceedings under way in Spain accuse White House legal advisers, known as the Bush Six, of criminal wrongdoing for advising that the techniques were legal.\"Nobody \u2013 from those who administered the practices to those at the top of the chain of command \u2013 is under a shield of absolute immunity for the practices of secret detention, extraordinary rendition and torture,\" said Martin Scheinin, UN special rapporteur on human rights and professor of public international law at the European University Institute. \"Legally this case is quite clear. Bush does not enjoy immunity as a former head of state, and he has command responsibility for the decisions that were taken.\"The arrest of the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998 ended the immunity leaders had largely enjoyed. Britain had no choice but to act on an extradition request by Spain over the murders of Spanish citizens in Chile when he was in power.The targeting of US politicians began in earnest during the Bush administration after the opening of Guant\u00e1namo Bay detention centre, the invasion of Iraq and revelations of secret CIA prisons overseas and rendition flights.In 2005, the then US secretary of state, Donald Rumsfeld, was threatened with arrest in Germany for war crimes relating to abuses at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Rumsfeld threatened to pull out of a prestigious defence conference in Munich until German prosecutors assured him that he would not be apprehended.Israeli politicians have also been the subject of arrest attempts on visits to Europe. A British court issued a warrant in 2009 for Israel's then foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, below, on behalf of Palestinian victims. But she postponed her trip to London, saying scheduling problems were to blame.Another Israeli politician, deputy prime minister Dan Meridor, cancelled a trip to London last year after being told he may face an arrest warrant or some other legal action, apparently over the Israeli killing of Turkish activists on a ship bound for Gaza.", "tags": ["Human rights", "Law", "George Bush", "World news", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "George Bush calls off trip to Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-01-11T16:26:30Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 04 BERN 000141  SIPDIS  SIPDIS  STATE FOR S/CT, EB, EUR/AGS  FBI FOR OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS  TREASURY FOR OFAC  E.O. 12958: DECL: 01/20/2016  TAGS: PTER, PARM, ETTC, SZ  SUBJECT: SWISS COUNTERTERRORISM OVERVIEW - SCENESETTER FOR FBI DIRECTOR MUELLER  REF: A. BERN 100  B. BERN 10  C. 2005 BERN 1865Classified By: Pol/Econ Counselor Eric Sandberg, Reasons 1.4 b/d1.(C) Summary: Switzerland and Liechtenstein are considered low-threat target for terrorist attacks, but Bern acknowledges that Islamist groups could use the country as a transit point, logistics center, or haven for terrorist finances. While violent crime in both countries is relatively low, officials remain concerned about international organized criminal groups and extreme right-wing and left-wing political elements who occasionally mobilize for demonstrations surrounding major events, such as the annual World Economic Forum in Davos. Swiss officials maintain that there are few Islamic extremists in the country, but a small number of arrests in the past two years suggests there may be more under the surface. Bilateral law enforcement and intelligence cooperation is improving, but at a gradual pace; Swiss leaders insist that they can address the threat with little outside assistance. The Swiss media and individual members of Parliament have placed a greater focus on alleged USG wrongdoings in the War on Terror than on the terrorist threat itself. As for Liechtenstein, officials work very cooperatively with USG counterparts, as they seek to ameliorate their reputation as a money-laundering center. End Summary.Anti-Terror Measures--------------------2.(U) Switzerland implemented UN sanctions even prior to becoming a full member in 2002. Along with UN lists, the Swiss Economic and Finance ministries have drawn up their own list of around 44 individuals and entities connected with international terrorism (Al-Qaeda) or its financing. Swiss authorities have thus far blocked about 82 accounts totaling $28 million (SFr 34 million) from individuals or companies linked to Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda under UN resolutions. The Swiss Federal Prosecutor also froze separately 41 accounts representing about $28 million (SFr 34 millions) on the ground they were related to terrorist financing. Swiss officials estimate significant overlap between the US and UN lists. Switzerland signed and ratified all of the 12 UN anti-terrorism conventions as of September 2003.3.(U) For its part, Liechtenstein has frozen about $145 thousand in Taliban/Al-Qaeda assets under UNSC Resolution 1267. The principality has taken notable strides to combat money laundering and other illegal activity since 1999; it joined the Egmont Group in 2001, signed a mutual legal assistance treaty with the United States in 2003, and was FATF certified that same year. Liechtenstein has also ratified all of the relevant UN conventions.Bilateral Cooperation---------------------4.(C) Following 9/11, the Swiss agreed to sign an operative working agreement (OWA) with the USG permitting intensified information sharing on Al-Qaeda and allowing an FBI agent to sit in the Federal Criminal Police Counterterrorism Unit. We are in the final stages of negotiating a broadened OWA to allow joint investigations on counterterrorism matters. As forthcoming as some contacts are, the Swiss law enforcement community in general remain reluctant to open up to the United States. The sentiment was expressed best by Justice Minister Blocher to the Ambassador. Blocher said that Switzerland shared America's counterterrorism goals; Switzerland will worry about Switzerland, and the U.S. can worry about the rest of the world. The least cooperative Swiss agency (with us and with other Swiss agencies) is the Federal Service for Analysis and Prevention (DAP) -- the internal intelligence service. The external service, under the Swiss Department of Defense, is more cooperative.5.(C) In many ways, Liechtenstein officials are a model of what we wish the Swiss would become. Shocked by the international notoriety it earned in the 1990s, officials in the tiny principality decided to join FATF and cooperate with partners. The MLAT it signed with the United States in 2003 BERN 00000141 002 OF 004 was the first of its kind for Liechtenstein. They make as much use of it as do our law enforcement agencies.Significant counterterrorism investigations-------------------------------------------6.(C) Swiss prosecutors have launched several investigations of suspected Al-Qaeda operatives in Switzerland. XXXXXXXXXXXXMuslims in Switzerland ----------------------7.(U) The Muslim population in Switzerland has grown rapidly BERN 00000141 003.2 OF 004 in the last two decades, now reaching around 310,000, or 4.3 percenQ the Swiss population. The majority of these, roughly 200,000, come from former Yugoslavia and tend to be moderate or secular in their views. Another 70,000 are of Turkish background, have long been in Switzerland, and are also moderate. Only the North African population, largely from Morocco, are seen as a possible source of Islamic extremism. There are no Islamic political parties in Switzerland; the Muslim population is divided along ethnic lines. There are only two mosque buildings in SwitzerlandQn Zurich aQeneva), but over a hundred makeshift Islamic centers operate.8.(SBU) While Swiss authorities recognize that the Muslim population could contain extremists, they rate the threat from right-wing Neo-nazis and left-wing Swiss political extremists as being much higher. Swiss authorities believe that those Islamists present consider the country a \"refuge\" rather than a \"place to carry out operations.\" A Special Report on Extremism issued late last year maintains that almost all radical groups represented in Switzerland are Sunni organizations whose primary goals are the establishment of Islamic governments in their homelands. The principal groups in this category are En Nahdha, the Tunisian Islamic Front, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), the Armed Islamic Group (GIA), the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), Hamas, Hizbollah and Al-Takfir wal-Hijra.9.(C) The best known Islamists in Switzerland are the Ramadans, Tariq and Hani, of the Islamic Center in Geneva. Tariq Ramadan, formerly a professor of philosophy and grandson of Muslim Brotherhood found Hassan al-Bana, is well-known throughout Europe. He is sometimes hailed as a moderate, at other times attacked as a wolf in sheep's clothing, putting a palatable front to fundamentalist activities. Offered a teaching position at Notre Dame University in 2004, his visa was revoked by DHS, and he withdrew a subsequent application. The UK Government has included Ramadan in an advisory body to assist in their outreach efforts with its Muslim minority.10.(U) Hani Ramadan was suspended from his duties as a public school teacher in the fall of 2002, following the publication of an article in the French newspaper \"Le Monde,\" in which he spoke out in favor of the stoning of adulterers. He was dismissed in 2003, following an administrative investigation, but he successfully appealed the decision. However, following a second investigation, the Geneva Cantonal Government confirmed Ramadan's dismissal and removed him from the cantonal payroll in December 2004. In October 2005, the Swiss Justice Ministry denied a work permit to a Turkish Imam invited to work at the Islamic Center in Geneva, due to the Imam's extremist views.Swiss Media Push-back on the War on Terrorism--------------------------------------------- -11.(C) Since the Washington Post claimed in early November 2005 that the United States was operating hidden prisons in Europe, the Swiss media has gone full bore in identifying USG sins, real and imagined. Any news on Guantanamo or Abu Ghraib is guaranteed front-page treatment, whereas Al-Qaeda attacks are relegated to the back pages. Of particular concern is the issue of overflights by alleged CIA charter planes. Italian prosecutors allege that a U.S. military jet traversed Swiss airspace on the day Milan cleric Abu Omar was kidnapped. The Swiss government has repeatedly asked the USG to explain the flight and four charter plane landings at Geneva Airport. Washington has yet to respond.12.(C) Recently, a Swiss tabloid published a leaked Swiss intelligence report of an intercept of an Egyptian government fax. The Swiss Federal Council has condemned the leak and its subsequent publication, and the government has launched administrative and criminal investigations into the matter. The intercepted Egyptian fax claimed that the Egyptian government knew of 23 Iraqi and Afghani prisoners transferred by the USG to prisons in Romania and other Eastern European countries. Swiss officials apologized to Ambassador Willeford for the leak and for the press's overreaction to it. The Ambassador cautioned officials that Switzerland'sBERN 00000141 004 OF 004obsession with the prisons/overflight matter -- driven in significant measure by Swiss Senator Dick Marty -- risked overwhelming Washington's perceptions of Switzerland. Marty, acting in his capacity as head of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly's Justice Commission and not in any official Swiss government capacity, greeted the information cautiously, but criticized the Swiss and other European governments for not disclosing information on the prisoner issue.Comment -------13.(C) Comment: Despite being somewhat shaken by attacks in London and Madrid, the Swiss internal security service continues to assess that Switzerland is relatively safe and that there is no evidence yet of any activity beyond logistical support for Islamic extremists. Swiss opinion leaders among the Parliament and media exhibit little evident concern about the terrorist threat to Switzerland, perhaps contributing to their tendency to focus their criticism on the USG reaction, rather than the initial threat itself. Embassy engagement with Swiss counterparts, reinforced by senior-level visits by USG officials, are helping to move the Swiss to be more forthcoming on information sharing and joint investigations. Absent a direct attack on Swiss interests, however, the process is liable to move very gradually. End comment. Willeford", "tags": ["Switzerland", "The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Switzerland and counter-terrorism"},{"date": "2011-01-19T20:32:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss government today pledged to freeze assets belonging to the deposed Tunisian president Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali and his associates, as the race began to track down their hidden billions.Tunisian human rights campaigners and opposition members are attempting to unravel the web of assets believed to spread from Canada and South America to the Gulf, and draw up a \"blacklist\" of misappropriated funds and properties.At the same time, a Tunis prosecutor opened an independent investigation into the overseas assets of the ousted leader and his family, amassed during his 23 years in power. Much of the fortune, allegedly made from pillaging the economy and businesses, is believed to be held in luxury property and secret bank accounts.A number of countries, including France, are examining requests to identify and block any movement of funds belonging to the Ben Ali regime, including relatives of his second wife, Leila Trabelsi, notorious for their greed and corruption.The former first lady was reported to have fled last week to Saudi Arabia with 1.5 tonnes of gold worth \u20ac50m (\u00a342m).The Ben Ali-Trabelsi clan, described in secret US cables as a \"quasi-mafia\", was extensive. Trabelsi was one of 11 children and her offspring \u2013 as well as stepchildren, nephews, cousins and relatives by marriage \u2013 profited from their absolute hold on power and control of the economy.Forbes estimated the president's fortune at about $5bn in 2008, but the Trabelsi family is believed to have amassed several hundred million euros more. The Tunisian writer Abdelaziz Belkhodja circulated a 7,000-word document outlining the suspected pillaging on Facebook today (login required). He said most of the ill-gotten gains were from the illegal privatising of national assets and companies.\"Ben Ali accepted and hid the mafia-like practices of his immediate entourage in full view and with the knowledge of everyone and with the complicity of several members of all state bodies,\" he wrote. \"Every sector of the economy of the country was affected by the rapacity of Ben Ali's family and associates.\" He claimed family members:\u2022 Took control of the Bank of Tunisia and were granted licences to set up banks, pocketing enormous commissions.\u2022 Ran Tunisia's lucrative tuna fishing and export business.\u2022 Had exclusive licences to import vehicles and controlled airports, harbours, tourist attractions, hotels, housing and even the black market in alcohol.\u2022 Controlled the country's internet provider, mobile telephone networks, radio and television and sections of the media.Other assets are said to include an estate worth \u00a31.2m in Westmount, near Montreal, a property on the Rue de Rhone in Geneva and a Falcon 9000 jet parked at Geneva airport. In France, investigations centre on an apartment on the chic Rue du Faubourg Saint Honor\u00e9 in Paris valued at \u20ac37m, an apartment in Courchevel ski resort and a villa on the French Riviera.Belkhodja said Ben Ali and his associates had accumulated riches with an \"arrogance which throws light on the mentality of these people who had no political conscience but were convinced Tunisia belonged to them. These scandals must never be forgotten so the people who have brought this country to its knees will pay for their misdoings.\"", "tags": ["Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali", "World news", "Tunisia", "Switzerland", "France", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Search begins for ousted Tunisian president's hidden billions"},{"date": "2011-02-11T16:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland votes on Sunday in a referendum on whether to tighten its gun laws in an attempt to reduce its high firearms suicide rate.Switzerland has some of the most liberal weapons ownership rules in the western world, with an estimated 2.3m guns between its 8 million people.The proposal faces stiff resistance from gun enthusiasts in a nation where the right to bear arms is firmly linked to the national myth of William Tell, the Swiss marksman who \u2013 as well as the incident with the apple \u2013 killed an enemy with his crossbow.The result, say anti-gun campaigners, is that it has the highest rate of firearms suicides in Europe \u2013 about a quarter of Switzerland's 1,300 suicides each year involve a gun, according to federal statistics.Most firearms are owned by ex-soldiers who, by a quirk of tradition, are allowed to keep their weapons after military service ends. Campaigners want all military-issued guns to be stored in secure army depots rather than in people's homes.Reformers also want a national gun registry and a ban on the sale of fully automatic weapons and pump-action rifles. Such policies, they claim, would help prevent rampages such as that in the town of Zug in 2001, when 14 people were shot dead at a local government meeting. The perpetrator, Friedrich Leibacher, who also killed himself, used a commercial version of the Swiss army's SG 550 assault rifle, a gun commonly found throughout the country, hidden in cupboards or stored under beds.\"If you make firearms less accessible there will be fewer suicides. It's that simple,\" said Elsa Kurz of the Geneva-based organisation Stop Suicide.But the head of Switzerland's sport shooting association, which represents 3,000 gun clubs, said a change in the law would damage the social fabric.\"In our democracy, the clubs are a very important pillar of the community,\" said Dora Andres, who keeps an assault rifle at home. \"If you don't have clubs, where are you going to meet and talk to people? On Facebook?\"Another vocal minority claims the vote endangers the weak federal government and Switzerland's unique system of popular rule expressed in endless referendums.\"The real purpose of this initiative is to weaken the militia army and withdraw the state's confidence in its citizens,\" said Markus M\u00fcller, spokesman for a group of senior Swiss military officers.He called the proposal a leftwing conspiracy to weaken Swiss democracy. \"Only a disarmed people can be oppressed. That's why we're against this,\" he said.The exact number of military-issued weapons involved in Swiss suicides remains disputed, but those calling for tighter rules claim they account for between 100 and 200 a year, mostly among men. Reformers also note that since Switzerland cut the size of its army in 2004, the number of firearms suicides among men aged 30-40 has halved.A recent poll found 47% for the proposal, with 45% opposed.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Suicide rates"], "title": "Switzerland to vote on gun law reform"},{"date": "2011-02-06T21:09:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "George W Bush has had to call off a trip to Switzerland next weekend amid planned protests by human rights groups over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo Bay and the threat of a warrant for his arrest.David Sherzer, a spokesman for the former US president, confirmed the move in an email to the Associated Press. \"We regret that the speech has been cancelled,\" he said. \"President Bush was looking forward to speaking about freedom and offering reflections from his time in office.\"The visit would have been Bush's first to Europe since he admitted in his autobiography, Decision Points, in November that he had authorised the use of waterboarding \u2013 simulated drowning \u2013 on detainees at Guant\u00e1namo accused of links with al-Qaida. Whether out of concern over the protests or the arrest warrant, it is an extraordinary development for a former US president to have his travel plans curtailed in this way, and amounts to a victory for human rights campaigners.Since the arrest of the late Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998, international leaders can no longer be confident of immunity. Israeli politicians have cancelled trips to London and elsewhere for fear of arrest warrants.Bush had been due to deliver a speech at a dinner in Geneva organised by the United Israel Appeal, a US-based organisation that helps Jews move to Israel. Robert Equey, the organisation's lawyer, was quoted by the Swiss daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve at the weekend saying that the decision to abandon the speech was because of concern that the protests might lead to violence, not fear of an arrest warrant.\"The calls to demonstrate were sliding into dangerous terrain,\" Equey said. \"The organisers claimed to be able to maintain order, but warned they could not be held responsible for any outbursts.\" The threat of an arrest warrant had not been a factor in the decision. The Centre for Constitutional Rights, the human rights group seeking an arrest warrant, said: \"Whatever Bush or his hosts say, we have no doubt he cancelled his trip to avoid our case.\"Human rights campaigners said they would seek arrest warrants wherever Bush planned to travel outside the US.Folco Galli, a spokesman for the Swiss justice ministry, told the Associated Press that the department's initial assessment was that Bush would have enjoyed immunity from prosecution for any actions taken while in office.But Amnesty International said today that it had sent a detailed factual and legal analysis to Swiss prosecutors, claiming there was sufficient information to open a criminal investigation.\"Such an investigation would be mandatory under Switzerland's international obligations if President Bush entered the country,\" Amnesty said.It added: \"Anywhere in the world that he travels, President Bush could face investigation and potential prosecution for his responsibility for torture and other crimes in international law, particularly in any of the 147 countries that are party to the UN convention against torture.\"Organisers of the protest had called on participants to bring a shoe, commemorating the Iraqi journalist who threw one at Bush during a 2008 press conference in Baghdad, to a rally outside the hotel where Bush was due to speak.Human rights groups had planned to submit a 2,500-page case against Bush in Geneva tomorrow over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo. The Bush administration claims that waterboarding does not amount to torture, but human rights organisations and the Obama administration have said it does.The document will no longer be filed in court but will be released at a media event. It focuses on two former Guant\u00e1namo Bay detainees, Majid Khan and former al-Jazeera correspondent Sami el-Hajj. Speaking before the cancellation of the visit, lawyers for the two said the trip was the first opportunity for the former president to face the legal consequences of authorising waterboarding and other techniques.\"What we have in Switzerland is a Pinochet opportunity,\" said Gavin Sullivan, lawyer for the European Centre for Constitutional and Human Rights, backing the claim together with the US-based Centre for Constitutional Rights.\"Bush enjoys no immunity from prosecution. As head of state he authorised and condoned acts of torture, and the law is clear \u2013 where a person has been responsible for torture, all states have an obligation under international law to open an investigation and prosecute.\" He added: \"Bush will be pursued wherever he goes as a war criminal and torturer.\"Legal proceedings under way in Spain accuse White House legal advisers, known as the Bush Six, of criminal wrongdoing for advising that the techniques were legal.\"Nobody \u2013 from those who administered the practices to those at the top of the chain of command \u2013 is under a shield of absolute immunity for the practices of secret detention, extraordinary rendition and torture,\" said Martin Scheinin, UN special rapporteur on human rights and professor of public international law at the European University Institute. \"Legally this case is quite clear. Bush does not enjoy immunity as a former head of state, and he has command responsibility for the decisions that were taken.\"The arrest of the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998 ended the immunity leaders had largely enjoyed. Britain had no choice but to act on an extradition request by Spain over the murders of Spanish citizens in Chile when he was in power.The targeting of US politicians began in earnest during the Bush administration after the opening of Guant\u00e1namo Bay detention centre, the invasion of Iraq and revelations of secret CIA prisons overseas and rendition flights.In 2005, the then US secretary of state, Donald Rumsfeld, was threatened with arrest in Germany for war crimes relating to abuses at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Rumsfeld threatened to pull out of a prestigious defence conference in Munich until German prosecutors assured him that he would not be apprehended.Israeli politicians have also been the subject of arrest attempts on visits to Europe. A British court issued a warrant in 2009 for Israel's then foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, below, on behalf of Palestinian victims. But she postponed her trip to London, saying scheduling problems were to blame.Another Israeli politician, deputy prime minister Dan Meridor, cancelled a trip to London last year after being told he may face an arrest warrant or some other legal action, apparently over the Israeli killing of Turkish activists on a ship bound for Gaza.", "tags": ["Human rights", "Law", "George Bush", "World news", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "George Bush calls off trip to Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-01-11T16:26:30Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 04 BERN 000141  SIPDIS  SIPDIS  STATE FOR S/CT, EB, EUR/AGS  FBI FOR OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS  TREASURY FOR OFAC  E.O. 12958: DECL: 01/20/2016  TAGS: PTER, PARM, ETTC, SZ  SUBJECT: SWISS COUNTERTERRORISM OVERVIEW - SCENESETTER FOR FBI DIRECTOR MUELLER  REF: A. BERN 100  B. BERN 10  C. 2005 BERN 1865Classified By: Pol/Econ Counselor Eric Sandberg, Reasons 1.4 b/d1.(C) Summary: Switzerland and Liechtenstein are considered low-threat target for terrorist attacks, but Bern acknowledges that Islamist groups could use the country as a transit point, logistics center, or haven for terrorist finances. While violent crime in both countries is relatively low, officials remain concerned about international organized criminal groups and extreme right-wing and left-wing political elements who occasionally mobilize for demonstrations surrounding major events, such as the annual World Economic Forum in Davos. Swiss officials maintain that there are few Islamic extremists in the country, but a small number of arrests in the past two years suggests there may be more under the surface. Bilateral law enforcement and intelligence cooperation is improving, but at a gradual pace; Swiss leaders insist that they can address the threat with little outside assistance. The Swiss media and individual members of Parliament have placed a greater focus on alleged USG wrongdoings in the War on Terror than on the terrorist threat itself. As for Liechtenstein, officials work very cooperatively with USG counterparts, as they seek to ameliorate their reputation as a money-laundering center. End Summary.Anti-Terror Measures--------------------2.(U) Switzerland implemented UN sanctions even prior to becoming a full member in 2002. Along with UN lists, the Swiss Economic and Finance ministries have drawn up their own list of around 44 individuals and entities connected with international terrorism (Al-Qaeda) or its financing. Swiss authorities have thus far blocked about 82 accounts totaling $28 million (SFr 34 million) from individuals or companies linked to Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda under UN resolutions. The Swiss Federal Prosecutor also froze separately 41 accounts representing about $28 million (SFr 34 millions) on the ground they were related to terrorist financing. Swiss officials estimate significant overlap between the US and UN lists. Switzerland signed and ratified all of the 12 UN anti-terrorism conventions as of September 2003.3.(U) For its part, Liechtenstein has frozen about $145 thousand in Taliban/Al-Qaeda assets under UNSC Resolution 1267. The principality has taken notable strides to combat money laundering and other illegal activity since 1999; it joined the Egmont Group in 2001, signed a mutual legal assistance treaty with the United States in 2003, and was FATF certified that same year. Liechtenstein has also ratified all of the relevant UN conventions.Bilateral Cooperation---------------------4.(C) Following 9/11, the Swiss agreed to sign an operative working agreement (OWA) with the USG permitting intensified information sharing on Al-Qaeda and allowing an FBI agent to sit in the Federal Criminal Police Counterterrorism Unit. We are in the final stages of negotiating a broadened OWA to allow joint investigations on counterterrorism matters. As forthcoming as some contacts are, the Swiss law enforcement community in general remain reluctant to open up to the United States. The sentiment was expressed best by Justice Minister Blocher to the Ambassador. Blocher said that Switzerland shared America's counterterrorism goals; Switzerland will worry about Switzerland, and the U.S. can worry about the rest of the world. The least cooperative Swiss agency (with us and with other Swiss agencies) is the Federal Service for Analysis and Prevention (DAP) -- the internal intelligence service. The external service, under the Swiss Department of Defense, is more cooperative.5.(C) In many ways, Liechtenstein officials are a model of what we wish the Swiss would become. Shocked by the international notoriety it earned in the 1990s, officials in the tiny principality decided to join FATF and cooperate with partners. The MLAT it signed with the United States in 2003 BERN 00000141 002 OF 004 was the first of its kind for Liechtenstein. They make as much use of it as do our law enforcement agencies.Significant counterterrorism investigations-------------------------------------------6.(C) Swiss prosecutors have launched several investigations of suspected Al-Qaeda operatives in Switzerland. XXXXXXXXXXXXMuslims in Switzerland ----------------------7.(U) The Muslim population in Switzerland has grown rapidly BERN 00000141 003.2 OF 004 in the last two decades, now reaching around 310,000, or 4.3 percenQ the Swiss population. The majority of these, roughly 200,000, come from former Yugoslavia and tend to be moderate or secular in their views. Another 70,000 are of Turkish background, have long been in Switzerland, and are also moderate. Only the North African population, largely from Morocco, are seen as a possible source of Islamic extremism. There are no Islamic political parties in Switzerland; the Muslim population is divided along ethnic lines. There are only two mosque buildings in SwitzerlandQn Zurich aQeneva), but over a hundred makeshift Islamic centers operate.8.(SBU) While Swiss authorities recognize that the Muslim population could contain extremists, they rate the threat from right-wing Neo-nazis and left-wing Swiss political extremists as being much higher. Swiss authorities believe that those Islamists present consider the country a \"refuge\" rather than a \"place to carry out operations.\" A Special Report on Extremism issued late last year maintains that almost all radical groups represented in Switzerland are Sunni organizations whose primary goals are the establishment of Islamic governments in their homelands. The principal groups in this category are En Nahdha, the Tunisian Islamic Front, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), the Armed Islamic Group (GIA), the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), Hamas, Hizbollah and Al-Takfir wal-Hijra.9.(C) The best known Islamists in Switzerland are the Ramadans, Tariq and Hani, of the Islamic Center in Geneva. Tariq Ramadan, formerly a professor of philosophy and grandson of Muslim Brotherhood found Hassan al-Bana, is well-known throughout Europe. He is sometimes hailed as a moderate, at other times attacked as a wolf in sheep's clothing, putting a palatable front to fundamentalist activities. Offered a teaching position at Notre Dame University in 2004, his visa was revoked by DHS, and he withdrew a subsequent application. The UK Government has included Ramadan in an advisory body to assist in their outreach efforts with its Muslim minority.10.(U) Hani Ramadan was suspended from his duties as a public school teacher in the fall of 2002, following the publication of an article in the French newspaper \"Le Monde,\" in which he spoke out in favor of the stoning of adulterers. He was dismissed in 2003, following an administrative investigation, but he successfully appealed the decision. However, following a second investigation, the Geneva Cantonal Government confirmed Ramadan's dismissal and removed him from the cantonal payroll in December 2004. In October 2005, the Swiss Justice Ministry denied a work permit to a Turkish Imam invited to work at the Islamic Center in Geneva, due to the Imam's extremist views.Swiss Media Push-back on the War on Terrorism--------------------------------------------- -11.(C) Since the Washington Post claimed in early November 2005 that the United States was operating hidden prisons in Europe, the Swiss media has gone full bore in identifying USG sins, real and imagined. Any news on Guantanamo or Abu Ghraib is guaranteed front-page treatment, whereas Al-Qaeda attacks are relegated to the back pages. Of particular concern is the issue of overflights by alleged CIA charter planes. Italian prosecutors allege that a U.S. military jet traversed Swiss airspace on the day Milan cleric Abu Omar was kidnapped. The Swiss government has repeatedly asked the USG to explain the flight and four charter plane landings at Geneva Airport. Washington has yet to respond.12.(C) Recently, a Swiss tabloid published a leaked Swiss intelligence report of an intercept of an Egyptian government fax. The Swiss Federal Council has condemned the leak and its subsequent publication, and the government has launched administrative and criminal investigations into the matter. The intercepted Egyptian fax claimed that the Egyptian government knew of 23 Iraqi and Afghani prisoners transferred by the USG to prisons in Romania and other Eastern European countries. Swiss officials apologized to Ambassador Willeford for the leak and for the press's overreaction to it. The Ambassador cautioned officials that Switzerland'sBERN 00000141 004 OF 004obsession with the prisons/overflight matter -- driven in significant measure by Swiss Senator Dick Marty -- risked overwhelming Washington's perceptions of Switzerland. Marty, acting in his capacity as head of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly's Justice Commission and not in any official Swiss government capacity, greeted the information cautiously, but criticized the Swiss and other European governments for not disclosing information on the prisoner issue.Comment -------13.(C) Comment: Despite being somewhat shaken by attacks in London and Madrid, the Swiss internal security service continues to assess that Switzerland is relatively safe and that there is no evidence yet of any activity beyond logistical support for Islamic extremists. Swiss opinion leaders among the Parliament and media exhibit little evident concern about the terrorist threat to Switzerland, perhaps contributing to their tendency to focus their criticism on the USG reaction, rather than the initial threat itself. Embassy engagement with Swiss counterparts, reinforced by senior-level visits by USG officials, are helping to move the Swiss to be more forthcoming on information sharing and joint investigations. Absent a direct attack on Swiss interests, however, the process is liable to move very gradually. End comment. Willeford", "tags": ["Switzerland", "The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Switzerland and counter-terrorism"},{"date": "2011-01-19T20:32:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss government today pledged to freeze assets belonging to the deposed Tunisian president Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali and his associates, as the race began to track down their hidden billions.Tunisian human rights campaigners and opposition members are attempting to unravel the web of assets believed to spread from Canada and South America to the Gulf, and draw up a \"blacklist\" of misappropriated funds and properties.At the same time, a Tunis prosecutor opened an independent investigation into the overseas assets of the ousted leader and his family, amassed during his 23 years in power. Much of the fortune, allegedly made from pillaging the economy and businesses, is believed to be held in luxury property and secret bank accounts.A number of countries, including France, are examining requests to identify and block any movement of funds belonging to the Ben Ali regime, including relatives of his second wife, Leila Trabelsi, notorious for their greed and corruption.The former first lady was reported to have fled last week to Saudi Arabia with 1.5 tonnes of gold worth \u20ac50m (\u00a342m).The Ben Ali-Trabelsi clan, described in secret US cables as a \"quasi-mafia\", was extensive. Trabelsi was one of 11 children and her offspring \u2013 as well as stepchildren, nephews, cousins and relatives by marriage \u2013 profited from their absolute hold on power and control of the economy.Forbes estimated the president's fortune at about $5bn in 2008, but the Trabelsi family is believed to have amassed several hundred million euros more. The Tunisian writer Abdelaziz Belkhodja circulated a 7,000-word document outlining the suspected pillaging on Facebook today (login required). He said most of the ill-gotten gains were from the illegal privatising of national assets and companies.\"Ben Ali accepted and hid the mafia-like practices of his immediate entourage in full view and with the knowledge of everyone and with the complicity of several members of all state bodies,\" he wrote. \"Every sector of the economy of the country was affected by the rapacity of Ben Ali's family and associates.\" He claimed family members:\u2022 Took control of the Bank of Tunisia and were granted licences to set up banks, pocketing enormous commissions.\u2022 Ran Tunisia's lucrative tuna fishing and export business.\u2022 Had exclusive licences to import vehicles and controlled airports, harbours, tourist attractions, hotels, housing and even the black market in alcohol.\u2022 Controlled the country's internet provider, mobile telephone networks, radio and television and sections of the media.Other assets are said to include an estate worth \u00a31.2m in Westmount, near Montreal, a property on the Rue de Rhone in Geneva and a Falcon 9000 jet parked at Geneva airport. In France, investigations centre on an apartment on the chic Rue du Faubourg Saint Honor\u00e9 in Paris valued at \u20ac37m, an apartment in Courchevel ski resort and a villa on the French Riviera.Belkhodja said Ben Ali and his associates had accumulated riches with an \"arrogance which throws light on the mentality of these people who had no political conscience but were convinced Tunisia belonged to them. These scandals must never be forgotten so the people who have brought this country to its knees will pay for their misdoings.\"", "tags": ["Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali", "World news", "Tunisia", "Switzerland", "France", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Search begins for ousted Tunisian president's hidden billions"},{"date": "2011-02-09T00:01:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The galleries were packed for the first encounter between the chancellor, George Osborne, and his new Labour shadow, Ed Balls. Mr Osborne was clearly nervous: he had even increased the taxes on banks, seemingly ad lib, on the radio yesterday morning. Since he reckons to take \u00a3800 million more from the banks, this makes the encounter one of the most expensive in history \u2013 nearly \u00a3200 million per minute!Both sides had come with folders full of sound bites. And a host of dubious statistics. The economy generates such an immense quantity of numbers that it is possible to prove almost anything you want. And they did.Mr Balls asked how it was that the chancellor had blamed the slowing in the UK economy on the weather, whereas the Americans also had terrible weather and their economy was rebounding. Was it the wrong kind of snow?Mr Osborne's lip curled even more than usual. \"Now you and the leader of the opposition know how it is to be people's second choice!\" he sneered. \"He is a man with a past!\" he added, going on to list the many disasters that occurred when Mr Balls was working for Gordon Brown.Mr Balls got his Y-fronts in a twist. The chancellor should have spent less time on the ski slopes of Switzerland and more in the meeting halls of Davos, where he would have been able to hear the US treasury secretary explain why Labour was right. Mr Osborne grew even sneerier. \"He had a lot of time to prepare that, and I'm not sure it came out as expected.\" Was there a winner? Osborne, I would say, but who cares? It means little.Then, after hearing the mewlings and squeakings of various underlings, satraps and myrmidons, up arose Sir Peter Tapsell. (Others stand up; he arises.) Immediately a crack team of seamstresses at the Gobelin factory were alerted to their latest commission: Sir Peter Tapsell Addresses The House Of Commons On The Topic Of Bankers' Bonuses. Improverished women in the stews of Paris wept for joy, for this monumental tapestry would mean their children would have food! And shoes!Sir Peter's assumption of the vertical position was met by loud Labour cheers. He paused for the tidal wave to die down. He spake. (Others speak. He spakes. ) \"Do Tweasury ministers [Sir Peter has a slight speech impediment] agwee that the real pwoblem about bankers' bonuses is that they are not paid out of pwofits, but out of wevenues? Taxing banks after bonuses are paid merely depwesses dividends, particularly for pension funds.'Why are bankers' bonuses not paid out of pwofits, not wevenue, as they always were by own very efficient stockbwoking firm?\"It was a very good question. He sat down to even louder Labour applause, having landed a heavy blow on the government front bench. As for the minister, one Mark Hoban, he had no reply, but blithered and wittered and chuntered until he embarrassed himself.Sir Peter is no Labour supporter. But I bet lots of Labour MPs wish that he was.", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Ed Balls", "Politics", "George Osborne"], "title": "Ed Balls makes George Osborne twitch | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-02-11T16:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland votes on Sunday in a referendum on whether to tighten its gun laws in an attempt to reduce its high firearms suicide rate.Switzerland has some of the most liberal weapons ownership rules in the western world, with an estimated 2.3m guns between its 8 million people.The proposal faces stiff resistance from gun enthusiasts in a nation where the right to bear arms is firmly linked to the national myth of William Tell, the Swiss marksman who \u2013 as well as the incident with the apple \u2013 killed an enemy with his crossbow.The result, say anti-gun campaigners, is that it has the highest rate of firearms suicides in Europe \u2013 about a quarter of Switzerland's 1,300 suicides each year involve a gun, according to federal statistics.Most firearms are owned by ex-soldiers who, by a quirk of tradition, are allowed to keep their weapons after military service ends. Campaigners want all military-issued guns to be stored in secure army depots rather than in people's homes.Reformers also want a national gun registry and a ban on the sale of fully automatic weapons and pump-action rifles. Such policies, they claim, would help prevent rampages such as that in the town of Zug in 2001, when 14 people were shot dead at a local government meeting. The perpetrator, Friedrich Leibacher, who also killed himself, used a commercial version of the Swiss army's SG 550 assault rifle, a gun commonly found throughout the country, hidden in cupboards or stored under beds.\"If you make firearms less accessible there will be fewer suicides. It's that simple,\" said Elsa Kurz of the Geneva-based organisation Stop Suicide.But the head of Switzerland's sport shooting association, which represents 3,000 gun clubs, said a change in the law would damage the social fabric.\"In our democracy, the clubs are a very important pillar of the community,\" said Dora Andres, who keeps an assault rifle at home. \"If you don't have clubs, where are you going to meet and talk to people? On Facebook?\"Another vocal minority claims the vote endangers the weak federal government and Switzerland's unique system of popular rule expressed in endless referendums.\"The real purpose of this initiative is to weaken the militia army and withdraw the state's confidence in its citizens,\" said Markus M\u00fcller, spokesman for a group of senior Swiss military officers.He called the proposal a leftwing conspiracy to weaken Swiss democracy. \"Only a disarmed people can be oppressed. That's why we're against this,\" he said.The exact number of military-issued weapons involved in Swiss suicides remains disputed, but those calling for tighter rules claim they account for between 100 and 200 a year, mostly among men. Reformers also note that since Switzerland cut the size of its army in 2004, the number of firearms suicides among men aged 30-40 has halved.A recent poll found 47% for the proposal, with 45% opposed.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Suicide rates"], "title": "Switzerland to vote on gun law reform"},{"date": "2011-02-06T21:09:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "George W Bush has had to call off a trip to Switzerland next weekend amid planned protests by human rights groups over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo Bay and the threat of a warrant for his arrest.David Sherzer, a spokesman for the former US president, confirmed the move in an email to the Associated Press. \"We regret that the speech has been cancelled,\" he said. \"President Bush was looking forward to speaking about freedom and offering reflections from his time in office.\"The visit would have been Bush's first to Europe since he admitted in his autobiography, Decision Points, in November that he had authorised the use of waterboarding \u2013 simulated drowning \u2013 on detainees at Guant\u00e1namo accused of links with al-Qaida. Whether out of concern over the protests or the arrest warrant, it is an extraordinary development for a former US president to have his travel plans curtailed in this way, and amounts to a victory for human rights campaigners.Since the arrest of the late Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998, international leaders can no longer be confident of immunity. Israeli politicians have cancelled trips to London and elsewhere for fear of arrest warrants.Bush had been due to deliver a speech at a dinner in Geneva organised by the United Israel Appeal, a US-based organisation that helps Jews move to Israel. Robert Equey, the organisation's lawyer, was quoted by the Swiss daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve at the weekend saying that the decision to abandon the speech was because of concern that the protests might lead to violence, not fear of an arrest warrant.\"The calls to demonstrate were sliding into dangerous terrain,\" Equey said. \"The organisers claimed to be able to maintain order, but warned they could not be held responsible for any outbursts.\" The threat of an arrest warrant had not been a factor in the decision. The Centre for Constitutional Rights, the human rights group seeking an arrest warrant, said: \"Whatever Bush or his hosts say, we have no doubt he cancelled his trip to avoid our case.\"Human rights campaigners said they would seek arrest warrants wherever Bush planned to travel outside the US.Folco Galli, a spokesman for the Swiss justice ministry, told the Associated Press that the department's initial assessment was that Bush would have enjoyed immunity from prosecution for any actions taken while in office.But Amnesty International said today that it had sent a detailed factual and legal analysis to Swiss prosecutors, claiming there was sufficient information to open a criminal investigation.\"Such an investigation would be mandatory under Switzerland's international obligations if President Bush entered the country,\" Amnesty said.It added: \"Anywhere in the world that he travels, President Bush could face investigation and potential prosecution for his responsibility for torture and other crimes in international law, particularly in any of the 147 countries that are party to the UN convention against torture.\"Organisers of the protest had called on participants to bring a shoe, commemorating the Iraqi journalist who threw one at Bush during a 2008 press conference in Baghdad, to a rally outside the hotel where Bush was due to speak.Human rights groups had planned to submit a 2,500-page case against Bush in Geneva tomorrow over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo. The Bush administration claims that waterboarding does not amount to torture, but human rights organisations and the Obama administration have said it does.The document will no longer be filed in court but will be released at a media event. It focuses on two former Guant\u00e1namo Bay detainees, Majid Khan and former al-Jazeera correspondent Sami el-Hajj. Speaking before the cancellation of the visit, lawyers for the two said the trip was the first opportunity for the former president to face the legal consequences of authorising waterboarding and other techniques.\"What we have in Switzerland is a Pinochet opportunity,\" said Gavin Sullivan, lawyer for the European Centre for Constitutional and Human Rights, backing the claim together with the US-based Centre for Constitutional Rights.\"Bush enjoys no immunity from prosecution. As head of state he authorised and condoned acts of torture, and the law is clear \u2013 where a person has been responsible for torture, all states have an obligation under international law to open an investigation and prosecute.\" He added: \"Bush will be pursued wherever he goes as a war criminal and torturer.\"Legal proceedings under way in Spain accuse White House legal advisers, known as the Bush Six, of criminal wrongdoing for advising that the techniques were legal.\"Nobody \u2013 from those who administered the practices to those at the top of the chain of command \u2013 is under a shield of absolute immunity for the practices of secret detention, extraordinary rendition and torture,\" said Martin Scheinin, UN special rapporteur on human rights and professor of public international law at the European University Institute. \"Legally this case is quite clear. Bush does not enjoy immunity as a former head of state, and he has command responsibility for the decisions that were taken.\"The arrest of the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998 ended the immunity leaders had largely enjoyed. Britain had no choice but to act on an extradition request by Spain over the murders of Spanish citizens in Chile when he was in power.The targeting of US politicians began in earnest during the Bush administration after the opening of Guant\u00e1namo Bay detention centre, the invasion of Iraq and revelations of secret CIA prisons overseas and rendition flights.In 2005, the then US secretary of state, Donald Rumsfeld, was threatened with arrest in Germany for war crimes relating to abuses at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Rumsfeld threatened to pull out of a prestigious defence conference in Munich until German prosecutors assured him that he would not be apprehended.Israeli politicians have also been the subject of arrest attempts on visits to Europe. A British court issued a warrant in 2009 for Israel's then foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, below, on behalf of Palestinian victims. But she postponed her trip to London, saying scheduling problems were to blame.Another Israeli politician, deputy prime minister Dan Meridor, cancelled a trip to London last year after being told he may face an arrest warrant or some other legal action, apparently over the Israeli killing of Turkish activists on a ship bound for Gaza.", "tags": ["Human rights", "Law", "George Bush", "World news", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "George Bush calls off trip to Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-01-11T16:26:30Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 04 BERN 000141  SIPDIS  SIPDIS  STATE FOR S/CT, EB, EUR/AGS  FBI FOR OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS  TREASURY FOR OFAC  E.O. 12958: DECL: 01/20/2016  TAGS: PTER, PARM, ETTC, SZ  SUBJECT: SWISS COUNTERTERRORISM OVERVIEW - SCENESETTER FOR FBI DIRECTOR MUELLER  REF: A. BERN 100  B. BERN 10  C. 2005 BERN 1865Classified By: Pol/Econ Counselor Eric Sandberg, Reasons 1.4 b/d1.(C) Summary: Switzerland and Liechtenstein are considered low-threat target for terrorist attacks, but Bern acknowledges that Islamist groups could use the country as a transit point, logistics center, or haven for terrorist finances. While violent crime in both countries is relatively low, officials remain concerned about international organized criminal groups and extreme right-wing and left-wing political elements who occasionally mobilize for demonstrations surrounding major events, such as the annual World Economic Forum in Davos. Swiss officials maintain that there are few Islamic extremists in the country, but a small number of arrests in the past two years suggests there may be more under the surface. Bilateral law enforcement and intelligence cooperation is improving, but at a gradual pace; Swiss leaders insist that they can address the threat with little outside assistance. The Swiss media and individual members of Parliament have placed a greater focus on alleged USG wrongdoings in the War on Terror than on the terrorist threat itself. As for Liechtenstein, officials work very cooperatively with USG counterparts, as they seek to ameliorate their reputation as a money-laundering center. End Summary.Anti-Terror Measures--------------------2.(U) Switzerland implemented UN sanctions even prior to becoming a full member in 2002. Along with UN lists, the Swiss Economic and Finance ministries have drawn up their own list of around 44 individuals and entities connected with international terrorism (Al-Qaeda) or its financing. Swiss authorities have thus far blocked about 82 accounts totaling $28 million (SFr 34 million) from individuals or companies linked to Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda under UN resolutions. The Swiss Federal Prosecutor also froze separately 41 accounts representing about $28 million (SFr 34 millions) on the ground they were related to terrorist financing. Swiss officials estimate significant overlap between the US and UN lists. Switzerland signed and ratified all of the 12 UN anti-terrorism conventions as of September 2003.3.(U) For its part, Liechtenstein has frozen about $145 thousand in Taliban/Al-Qaeda assets under UNSC Resolution 1267. The principality has taken notable strides to combat money laundering and other illegal activity since 1999; it joined the Egmont Group in 2001, signed a mutual legal assistance treaty with the United States in 2003, and was FATF certified that same year. Liechtenstein has also ratified all of the relevant UN conventions.Bilateral Cooperation---------------------4.(C) Following 9/11, the Swiss agreed to sign an operative working agreement (OWA) with the USG permitting intensified information sharing on Al-Qaeda and allowing an FBI agent to sit in the Federal Criminal Police Counterterrorism Unit. We are in the final stages of negotiating a broadened OWA to allow joint investigations on counterterrorism matters. As forthcoming as some contacts are, the Swiss law enforcement community in general remain reluctant to open up to the United States. The sentiment was expressed best by Justice Minister Blocher to the Ambassador. Blocher said that Switzerland shared America's counterterrorism goals; Switzerland will worry about Switzerland, and the U.S. can worry about the rest of the world. The least cooperative Swiss agency (with us and with other Swiss agencies) is the Federal Service for Analysis and Prevention (DAP) -- the internal intelligence service. The external service, under the Swiss Department of Defense, is more cooperative.5.(C) In many ways, Liechtenstein officials are a model of what we wish the Swiss would become. Shocked by the international notoriety it earned in the 1990s, officials in the tiny principality decided to join FATF and cooperate with partners. The MLAT it signed with the United States in 2003 BERN 00000141 002 OF 004 was the first of its kind for Liechtenstein. They make as much use of it as do our law enforcement agencies.Significant counterterrorism investigations-------------------------------------------6.(C) Swiss prosecutors have launched several investigations of suspected Al-Qaeda operatives in Switzerland. XXXXXXXXXXXXMuslims in Switzerland ----------------------7.(U) The Muslim population in Switzerland has grown rapidly BERN 00000141 003.2 OF 004 in the last two decades, now reaching around 310,000, or 4.3 percenQ the Swiss population. The majority of these, roughly 200,000, come from former Yugoslavia and tend to be moderate or secular in their views. Another 70,000 are of Turkish background, have long been in Switzerland, and are also moderate. Only the North African population, largely from Morocco, are seen as a possible source of Islamic extremism. There are no Islamic political parties in Switzerland; the Muslim population is divided along ethnic lines. There are only two mosque buildings in SwitzerlandQn Zurich aQeneva), but over a hundred makeshift Islamic centers operate.8.(SBU) While Swiss authorities recognize that the Muslim population could contain extremists, they rate the threat from right-wing Neo-nazis and left-wing Swiss political extremists as being much higher. Swiss authorities believe that those Islamists present consider the country a \"refuge\" rather than a \"place to carry out operations.\" A Special Report on Extremism issued late last year maintains that almost all radical groups represented in Switzerland are Sunni organizations whose primary goals are the establishment of Islamic governments in their homelands. The principal groups in this category are En Nahdha, the Tunisian Islamic Front, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), the Armed Islamic Group (GIA), the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), Hamas, Hizbollah and Al-Takfir wal-Hijra.9.(C) The best known Islamists in Switzerland are the Ramadans, Tariq and Hani, of the Islamic Center in Geneva. Tariq Ramadan, formerly a professor of philosophy and grandson of Muslim Brotherhood found Hassan al-Bana, is well-known throughout Europe. He is sometimes hailed as a moderate, at other times attacked as a wolf in sheep's clothing, putting a palatable front to fundamentalist activities. Offered a teaching position at Notre Dame University in 2004, his visa was revoked by DHS, and he withdrew a subsequent application. The UK Government has included Ramadan in an advisory body to assist in their outreach efforts with its Muslim minority.10.(U) Hani Ramadan was suspended from his duties as a public school teacher in the fall of 2002, following the publication of an article in the French newspaper \"Le Monde,\" in which he spoke out in favor of the stoning of adulterers. He was dismissed in 2003, following an administrative investigation, but he successfully appealed the decision. However, following a second investigation, the Geneva Cantonal Government confirmed Ramadan's dismissal and removed him from the cantonal payroll in December 2004. In October 2005, the Swiss Justice Ministry denied a work permit to a Turkish Imam invited to work at the Islamic Center in Geneva, due to the Imam's extremist views.Swiss Media Push-back on the War on Terrorism--------------------------------------------- -11.(C) Since the Washington Post claimed in early November 2005 that the United States was operating hidden prisons in Europe, the Swiss media has gone full bore in identifying USG sins, real and imagined. Any news on Guantanamo or Abu Ghraib is guaranteed front-page treatment, whereas Al-Qaeda attacks are relegated to the back pages. Of particular concern is the issue of overflights by alleged CIA charter planes. Italian prosecutors allege that a U.S. military jet traversed Swiss airspace on the day Milan cleric Abu Omar was kidnapped. The Swiss government has repeatedly asked the USG to explain the flight and four charter plane landings at Geneva Airport. Washington has yet to respond.12.(C) Recently, a Swiss tabloid published a leaked Swiss intelligence report of an intercept of an Egyptian government fax. The Swiss Federal Council has condemned the leak and its subsequent publication, and the government has launched administrative and criminal investigations into the matter. The intercepted Egyptian fax claimed that the Egyptian government knew of 23 Iraqi and Afghani prisoners transferred by the USG to prisons in Romania and other Eastern European countries. Swiss officials apologized to Ambassador Willeford for the leak and for the press's overreaction to it. The Ambassador cautioned officials that Switzerland'sBERN 00000141 004 OF 004obsession with the prisons/overflight matter -- driven in significant measure by Swiss Senator Dick Marty -- risked overwhelming Washington's perceptions of Switzerland. Marty, acting in his capacity as head of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly's Justice Commission and not in any official Swiss government capacity, greeted the information cautiously, but criticized the Swiss and other European governments for not disclosing information on the prisoner issue.Comment -------13.(C) Comment: Despite being somewhat shaken by attacks in London and Madrid, the Swiss internal security service continues to assess that Switzerland is relatively safe and that there is no evidence yet of any activity beyond logistical support for Islamic extremists. Swiss opinion leaders among the Parliament and media exhibit little evident concern about the terrorist threat to Switzerland, perhaps contributing to their tendency to focus their criticism on the USG reaction, rather than the initial threat itself. Embassy engagement with Swiss counterparts, reinforced by senior-level visits by USG officials, are helping to move the Swiss to be more forthcoming on information sharing and joint investigations. Absent a direct attack on Swiss interests, however, the process is liable to move very gradually. End comment. Willeford", "tags": ["Switzerland", "The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Switzerland and counter-terrorism"},{"date": "2011-01-19T20:32:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss government today pledged to freeze assets belonging to the deposed Tunisian president Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali and his associates, as the race began to track down their hidden billions.Tunisian human rights campaigners and opposition members are attempting to unravel the web of assets believed to spread from Canada and South America to the Gulf, and draw up a \"blacklist\" of misappropriated funds and properties.At the same time, a Tunis prosecutor opened an independent investigation into the overseas assets of the ousted leader and his family, amassed during his 23 years in power. Much of the fortune, allegedly made from pillaging the economy and businesses, is believed to be held in luxury property and secret bank accounts.A number of countries, including France, are examining requests to identify and block any movement of funds belonging to the Ben Ali regime, including relatives of his second wife, Leila Trabelsi, notorious for their greed and corruption.The former first lady was reported to have fled last week to Saudi Arabia with 1.5 tonnes of gold worth \u20ac50m (\u00a342m).The Ben Ali-Trabelsi clan, described in secret US cables as a \"quasi-mafia\", was extensive. Trabelsi was one of 11 children and her offspring \u2013 as well as stepchildren, nephews, cousins and relatives by marriage \u2013 profited from their absolute hold on power and control of the economy.Forbes estimated the president's fortune at about $5bn in 2008, but the Trabelsi family is believed to have amassed several hundred million euros more. The Tunisian writer Abdelaziz Belkhodja circulated a 7,000-word document outlining the suspected pillaging on Facebook today (login required). He said most of the ill-gotten gains were from the illegal privatising of national assets and companies.\"Ben Ali accepted and hid the mafia-like practices of his immediate entourage in full view and with the knowledge of everyone and with the complicity of several members of all state bodies,\" he wrote. \"Every sector of the economy of the country was affected by the rapacity of Ben Ali's family and associates.\" He claimed family members:\u2022 Took control of the Bank of Tunisia and were granted licences to set up banks, pocketing enormous commissions.\u2022 Ran Tunisia's lucrative tuna fishing and export business.\u2022 Had exclusive licences to import vehicles and controlled airports, harbours, tourist attractions, hotels, housing and even the black market in alcohol.\u2022 Controlled the country's internet provider, mobile telephone networks, radio and television and sections of the media.Other assets are said to include an estate worth \u00a31.2m in Westmount, near Montreal, a property on the Rue de Rhone in Geneva and a Falcon 9000 jet parked at Geneva airport. In France, investigations centre on an apartment on the chic Rue du Faubourg Saint Honor\u00e9 in Paris valued at \u20ac37m, an apartment in Courchevel ski resort and a villa on the French Riviera.Belkhodja said Ben Ali and his associates had accumulated riches with an \"arrogance which throws light on the mentality of these people who had no political conscience but were convinced Tunisia belonged to them. These scandals must never be forgotten so the people who have brought this country to its knees will pay for their misdoings.\"", "tags": ["Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali", "World news", "Tunisia", "Switzerland", "France", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Search begins for ousted Tunisian president's hidden billions"},{"date": "2011-02-09T00:01:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The galleries were packed for the first encounter between the chancellor, George Osborne, and his new Labour shadow, Ed Balls. Mr Osborne was clearly nervous: he had even increased the taxes on banks, seemingly ad lib, on the radio yesterday morning. Since he reckons to take \u00a3800 million more from the banks, this makes the encounter one of the most expensive in history \u2013 nearly \u00a3200 million per minute!Both sides had come with folders full of sound bites. And a host of dubious statistics. The economy generates such an immense quantity of numbers that it is possible to prove almost anything you want. And they did.Mr Balls asked how it was that the chancellor had blamed the slowing in the UK economy on the weather, whereas the Americans also had terrible weather and their economy was rebounding. Was it the wrong kind of snow?Mr Osborne's lip curled even more than usual. \"Now you and the leader of the opposition know how it is to be people's second choice!\" he sneered. \"He is a man with a past!\" he added, going on to list the many disasters that occurred when Mr Balls was working for Gordon Brown.Mr Balls got his Y-fronts in a twist. The chancellor should have spent less time on the ski slopes of Switzerland and more in the meeting halls of Davos, where he would have been able to hear the US treasury secretary explain why Labour was right. Mr Osborne grew even sneerier. \"He had a lot of time to prepare that, and I'm not sure it came out as expected.\" Was there a winner? Osborne, I would say, but who cares? It means little.Then, after hearing the mewlings and squeakings of various underlings, satraps and myrmidons, up arose Sir Peter Tapsell. (Others stand up; he arises.) Immediately a crack team of seamstresses at the Gobelin factory were alerted to their latest commission: Sir Peter Tapsell Addresses The House Of Commons On The Topic Of Bankers' Bonuses. Improverished women in the stews of Paris wept for joy, for this monumental tapestry would mean their children would have food! And shoes!Sir Peter's assumption of the vertical position was met by loud Labour cheers. He paused for the tidal wave to die down. He spake. (Others speak. He spakes. ) \"Do Tweasury ministers [Sir Peter has a slight speech impediment] agwee that the real pwoblem about bankers' bonuses is that they are not paid out of pwofits, but out of wevenues? Taxing banks after bonuses are paid merely depwesses dividends, particularly for pension funds.'Why are bankers' bonuses not paid out of pwofits, not wevenue, as they always were by own very efficient stockbwoking firm?\"It was a very good question. He sat down to even louder Labour applause, having landed a heavy blow on the government front bench. As for the minister, one Mark Hoban, he had no reply, but blithered and wittered and chuntered until he embarrassed himself.Sir Peter is no Labour supporter. But I bet lots of Labour MPs wish that he was.", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Ed Balls", "Politics", "George Osborne"], "title": "Ed Balls makes George Osborne twitch | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-02-20T00:04:13Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "British engineering firm Invensys is being stalked by international rivals considering a bid for the company which employs 8,000 people and is valued at \u00a32.7bn.City sources say predators include Honeywell and Emerson Electric of the US, ABB of Switzerland, Alstom of France, Germany's Siemens and two Chinese firms, CSR and CNR.No offer has been tabled, but potential bidders are said to be reviewing their options. If one fires off a bid, a takeover war is likely to erupt, as Invensys is viewed as one of only a handful of medium-sized engineering firms listed on the stock market, making it vulnerable to a bid. Private firms are more difficult to acquire.Invensys's investors include M&G (10%), Schroder (6%), Standard Life (5.98%), Legal & General (5.7%) and Marathon Asset Management (4.7%).It manufactures rail and signalling equipment and hi-tech products for industrial plants such as oil refineries.Harry Philips, an analyst at Evolution Securities, said the economic cycle had reached a point where companies had a lot of cash after cost-cutting during the recession. \"Now they are looking for acquisitions. In the last fortnight, we have seen GE buy a division of Wood Oil and drugs company Sanofi-Aventis buy Genzyme for \u00a312bn. Invensys wouldn't be a stretch for a company such as Siemens which is capitalised at \u20ac90bn (\u00a376bn) or Honeywell, valued at $40bn (\u00a324.6). But it could be a 'dial changer' for a buyer wanting to beef up in fast-expanding sectors.\"Philips said the market for rail equipment, worth $100bn globally, was booming, with massive infrastructure projects due to come on stream in emerging markets. \"A bid for Invensys would make sense for any of these companies,\" he said.Last year chief executive Ulf Henriksson annoyed the Takeover Panel when he told a newspaper that the rail group, CSR, had the option of acquiring Invensys, implying it would be a logical move. The company had to rush out an announcement to make it clear it wasn't in bid talks with the Chinese firm.Invensys was formed in a merger of Siebe and BTR in 1999. In the past decade, Invensys underwent major restructuring to cut costs. A major disposal programme, combined with debt restructuring in 2004, saved the firm from collapse.", "tags": ["Invensys", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "Engineering", "Manufacturing sector", "Technology", "Siemens"], "title": "Invensys stalked by engineering rivals"},{"date": "2011-02-11T16:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland votes on Sunday in a referendum on whether to tighten its gun laws in an attempt to reduce its high firearms suicide rate.Switzerland has some of the most liberal weapons ownership rules in the western world, with an estimated 2.3m guns between its 8 million people.The proposal faces stiff resistance from gun enthusiasts in a nation where the right to bear arms is firmly linked to the national myth of William Tell, the Swiss marksman who \u2013 as well as the incident with the apple \u2013 killed an enemy with his crossbow.The result, say anti-gun campaigners, is that it has the highest rate of firearms suicides in Europe \u2013 about a quarter of Switzerland's 1,300 suicides each year involve a gun, according to federal statistics.Most firearms are owned by ex-soldiers who, by a quirk of tradition, are allowed to keep their weapons after military service ends. Campaigners want all military-issued guns to be stored in secure army depots rather than in people's homes.Reformers also want a national gun registry and a ban on the sale of fully automatic weapons and pump-action rifles. Such policies, they claim, would help prevent rampages such as that in the town of Zug in 2001, when 14 people were shot dead at a local government meeting. The perpetrator, Friedrich Leibacher, who also killed himself, used a commercial version of the Swiss army's SG 550 assault rifle, a gun commonly found throughout the country, hidden in cupboards or stored under beds.\"If you make firearms less accessible there will be fewer suicides. It's that simple,\" said Elsa Kurz of the Geneva-based organisation Stop Suicide.But the head of Switzerland's sport shooting association, which represents 3,000 gun clubs, said a change in the law would damage the social fabric.\"In our democracy, the clubs are a very important pillar of the community,\" said Dora Andres, who keeps an assault rifle at home. \"If you don't have clubs, where are you going to meet and talk to people? On Facebook?\"Another vocal minority claims the vote endangers the weak federal government and Switzerland's unique system of popular rule expressed in endless referendums.\"The real purpose of this initiative is to weaken the militia army and withdraw the state's confidence in its citizens,\" said Markus M\u00fcller, spokesman for a group of senior Swiss military officers.He called the proposal a leftwing conspiracy to weaken Swiss democracy. \"Only a disarmed people can be oppressed. That's why we're against this,\" he said.The exact number of military-issued weapons involved in Swiss suicides remains disputed, but those calling for tighter rules claim they account for between 100 and 200 a year, mostly among men. Reformers also note that since Switzerland cut the size of its army in 2004, the number of firearms suicides among men aged 30-40 has halved.A recent poll found 47% for the proposal, with 45% opposed.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe", "Suicide rates"], "title": "Switzerland to vote on gun law reform"},{"date": "2011-02-06T21:09:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "George W Bush has had to call off a trip to Switzerland next weekend amid planned protests by human rights groups over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo Bay and the threat of a warrant for his arrest.David Sherzer, a spokesman for the former US president, confirmed the move in an email to the Associated Press. \"We regret that the speech has been cancelled,\" he said. \"President Bush was looking forward to speaking about freedom and offering reflections from his time in office.\"The visit would have been Bush's first to Europe since he admitted in his autobiography, Decision Points, in November that he had authorised the use of waterboarding \u2013 simulated drowning \u2013 on detainees at Guant\u00e1namo accused of links with al-Qaida. Whether out of concern over the protests or the arrest warrant, it is an extraordinary development for a former US president to have his travel plans curtailed in this way, and amounts to a victory for human rights campaigners.Since the arrest of the late Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998, international leaders can no longer be confident of immunity. Israeli politicians have cancelled trips to London and elsewhere for fear of arrest warrants.Bush had been due to deliver a speech at a dinner in Geneva organised by the United Israel Appeal, a US-based organisation that helps Jews move to Israel. Robert Equey, the organisation's lawyer, was quoted by the Swiss daily Tribune de Gen\u00e8ve at the weekend saying that the decision to abandon the speech was because of concern that the protests might lead to violence, not fear of an arrest warrant.\"The calls to demonstrate were sliding into dangerous terrain,\" Equey said. \"The organisers claimed to be able to maintain order, but warned they could not be held responsible for any outbursts.\" The threat of an arrest warrant had not been a factor in the decision. The Centre for Constitutional Rights, the human rights group seeking an arrest warrant, said: \"Whatever Bush or his hosts say, we have no doubt he cancelled his trip to avoid our case.\"Human rights campaigners said they would seek arrest warrants wherever Bush planned to travel outside the US.Folco Galli, a spokesman for the Swiss justice ministry, told the Associated Press that the department's initial assessment was that Bush would have enjoyed immunity from prosecution for any actions taken while in office.But Amnesty International said today that it had sent a detailed factual and legal analysis to Swiss prosecutors, claiming there was sufficient information to open a criminal investigation.\"Such an investigation would be mandatory under Switzerland's international obligations if President Bush entered the country,\" Amnesty said.It added: \"Anywhere in the world that he travels, President Bush could face investigation and potential prosecution for his responsibility for torture and other crimes in international law, particularly in any of the 147 countries that are party to the UN convention against torture.\"Organisers of the protest had called on participants to bring a shoe, commemorating the Iraqi journalist who threw one at Bush during a 2008 press conference in Baghdad, to a rally outside the hotel where Bush was due to speak.Human rights groups had planned to submit a 2,500-page case against Bush in Geneva tomorrow over the treatment of detainees at Guant\u00e1namo. The Bush administration claims that waterboarding does not amount to torture, but human rights organisations and the Obama administration have said it does.The document will no longer be filed in court but will be released at a media event. It focuses on two former Guant\u00e1namo Bay detainees, Majid Khan and former al-Jazeera correspondent Sami el-Hajj. Speaking before the cancellation of the visit, lawyers for the two said the trip was the first opportunity for the former president to face the legal consequences of authorising waterboarding and other techniques.\"What we have in Switzerland is a Pinochet opportunity,\" said Gavin Sullivan, lawyer for the European Centre for Constitutional and Human Rights, backing the claim together with the US-based Centre for Constitutional Rights.\"Bush enjoys no immunity from prosecution. As head of state he authorised and condoned acts of torture, and the law is clear \u2013 where a person has been responsible for torture, all states have an obligation under international law to open an investigation and prosecute.\" He added: \"Bush will be pursued wherever he goes as a war criminal and torturer.\"Legal proceedings under way in Spain accuse White House legal advisers, known as the Bush Six, of criminal wrongdoing for advising that the techniques were legal.\"Nobody \u2013 from those who administered the practices to those at the top of the chain of command \u2013 is under a shield of absolute immunity for the practices of secret detention, extraordinary rendition and torture,\" said Martin Scheinin, UN special rapporteur on human rights and professor of public international law at the European University Institute. \"Legally this case is quite clear. Bush does not enjoy immunity as a former head of state, and he has command responsibility for the decisions that were taken.\"The arrest of the Chilean dictator Augusto Pinochet in London in 1998 ended the immunity leaders had largely enjoyed. Britain had no choice but to act on an extradition request by Spain over the murders of Spanish citizens in Chile when he was in power.The targeting of US politicians began in earnest during the Bush administration after the opening of Guant\u00e1namo Bay detention centre, the invasion of Iraq and revelations of secret CIA prisons overseas and rendition flights.In 2005, the then US secretary of state, Donald Rumsfeld, was threatened with arrest in Germany for war crimes relating to abuses at Abu Ghraib prison in Iraq. Rumsfeld threatened to pull out of a prestigious defence conference in Munich until German prosecutors assured him that he would not be apprehended.Israeli politicians have also been the subject of arrest attempts on visits to Europe. A British court issued a warrant in 2009 for Israel's then foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, below, on behalf of Palestinian victims. But she postponed her trip to London, saying scheduling problems were to blame.Another Israeli politician, deputy prime minister Dan Meridor, cancelled a trip to London last year after being told he may face an arrest warrant or some other legal action, apparently over the Israeli killing of Turkish activists on a ship bound for Gaza.", "tags": ["Human rights", "Law", "George Bush", "World news", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US news", "Switzerland", "Europe"], "title": "George Bush calls off trip to Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-01-11T16:26:30Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "C O N F I D E N T I A L SECTION 01 OF 04 BERN 000141  SIPDIS  SIPDIS  STATE FOR S/CT, EB, EUR/AGS  FBI FOR OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS  TREASURY FOR OFAC  E.O. 12958: DECL: 01/20/2016  TAGS: PTER, PARM, ETTC, SZ  SUBJECT: SWISS COUNTERTERRORISM OVERVIEW - SCENESETTER FOR FBI DIRECTOR MUELLER  REF: A. BERN 100  B. BERN 10  C. 2005 BERN 1865Classified By: Pol/Econ Counselor Eric Sandberg, Reasons 1.4 b/d1.(C) Summary: Switzerland and Liechtenstein are considered low-threat target for terrorist attacks, but Bern acknowledges that Islamist groups could use the country as a transit point, logistics center, or haven for terrorist finances. While violent crime in both countries is relatively low, officials remain concerned about international organized criminal groups and extreme right-wing and left-wing political elements who occasionally mobilize for demonstrations surrounding major events, such as the annual World Economic Forum in Davos. Swiss officials maintain that there are few Islamic extremists in the country, but a small number of arrests in the past two years suggests there may be more under the surface. Bilateral law enforcement and intelligence cooperation is improving, but at a gradual pace; Swiss leaders insist that they can address the threat with little outside assistance. The Swiss media and individual members of Parliament have placed a greater focus on alleged USG wrongdoings in the War on Terror than on the terrorist threat itself. As for Liechtenstein, officials work very cooperatively with USG counterparts, as they seek to ameliorate their reputation as a money-laundering center. End Summary.Anti-Terror Measures--------------------2.(U) Switzerland implemented UN sanctions even prior to becoming a full member in 2002. Along with UN lists, the Swiss Economic and Finance ministries have drawn up their own list of around 44 individuals and entities connected with international terrorism (Al-Qaeda) or its financing. Swiss authorities have thus far blocked about 82 accounts totaling $28 million (SFr 34 million) from individuals or companies linked to Osama bin Laden and Al-Qaeda under UN resolutions. The Swiss Federal Prosecutor also froze separately 41 accounts representing about $28 million (SFr 34 millions) on the ground they were related to terrorist financing. Swiss officials estimate significant overlap between the US and UN lists. Switzerland signed and ratified all of the 12 UN anti-terrorism conventions as of September 2003.3.(U) For its part, Liechtenstein has frozen about $145 thousand in Taliban/Al-Qaeda assets under UNSC Resolution 1267. The principality has taken notable strides to combat money laundering and other illegal activity since 1999; it joined the Egmont Group in 2001, signed a mutual legal assistance treaty with the United States in 2003, and was FATF certified that same year. Liechtenstein has also ratified all of the relevant UN conventions.Bilateral Cooperation---------------------4.(C) Following 9/11, the Swiss agreed to sign an operative working agreement (OWA) with the USG permitting intensified information sharing on Al-Qaeda and allowing an FBI agent to sit in the Federal Criminal Police Counterterrorism Unit. We are in the final stages of negotiating a broadened OWA to allow joint investigations on counterterrorism matters. As forthcoming as some contacts are, the Swiss law enforcement community in general remain reluctant to open up to the United States. The sentiment was expressed best by Justice Minister Blocher to the Ambassador. Blocher said that Switzerland shared America's counterterrorism goals; Switzerland will worry about Switzerland, and the U.S. can worry about the rest of the world. The least cooperative Swiss agency (with us and with other Swiss agencies) is the Federal Service for Analysis and Prevention (DAP) -- the internal intelligence service. The external service, under the Swiss Department of Defense, is more cooperative.5.(C) In many ways, Liechtenstein officials are a model of what we wish the Swiss would become. Shocked by the international notoriety it earned in the 1990s, officials in the tiny principality decided to join FATF and cooperate with partners. The MLAT it signed with the United States in 2003 BERN 00000141 002 OF 004 was the first of its kind for Liechtenstein. They make as much use of it as do our law enforcement agencies.Significant counterterrorism investigations-------------------------------------------6.(C) Swiss prosecutors have launched several investigations of suspected Al-Qaeda operatives in Switzerland. XXXXXXXXXXXXMuslims in Switzerland ----------------------7.(U) The Muslim population in Switzerland has grown rapidly BERN 00000141 003.2 OF 004 in the last two decades, now reaching around 310,000, or 4.3 percenQ the Swiss population. The majority of these, roughly 200,000, come from former Yugoslavia and tend to be moderate or secular in their views. Another 70,000 are of Turkish background, have long been in Switzerland, and are also moderate. Only the North African population, largely from Morocco, are seen as a possible source of Islamic extremism. There are no Islamic political parties in Switzerland; the Muslim population is divided along ethnic lines. There are only two mosque buildings in SwitzerlandQn Zurich aQeneva), but over a hundred makeshift Islamic centers operate.8.(SBU) While Swiss authorities recognize that the Muslim population could contain extremists, they rate the threat from right-wing Neo-nazis and left-wing Swiss political extremists as being much higher. Swiss authorities believe that those Islamists present consider the country a \"refuge\" rather than a \"place to carry out operations.\" A Special Report on Extremism issued late last year maintains that almost all radical groups represented in Switzerland are Sunni organizations whose primary goals are the establishment of Islamic governments in their homelands. The principal groups in this category are En Nahdha, the Tunisian Islamic Front, the Muslim Brotherhood, the Islamic Salvation Front (FIS), the Armed Islamic Group (GIA), the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC), Hamas, Hizbollah and Al-Takfir wal-Hijra.9.(C) The best known Islamists in Switzerland are the Ramadans, Tariq and Hani, of the Islamic Center in Geneva. Tariq Ramadan, formerly a professor of philosophy and grandson of Muslim Brotherhood found Hassan al-Bana, is well-known throughout Europe. He is sometimes hailed as a moderate, at other times attacked as a wolf in sheep's clothing, putting a palatable front to fundamentalist activities. Offered a teaching position at Notre Dame University in 2004, his visa was revoked by DHS, and he withdrew a subsequent application. The UK Government has included Ramadan in an advisory body to assist in their outreach efforts with its Muslim minority.10.(U) Hani Ramadan was suspended from his duties as a public school teacher in the fall of 2002, following the publication of an article in the French newspaper \"Le Monde,\" in which he spoke out in favor of the stoning of adulterers. He was dismissed in 2003, following an administrative investigation, but he successfully appealed the decision. However, following a second investigation, the Geneva Cantonal Government confirmed Ramadan's dismissal and removed him from the cantonal payroll in December 2004. In October 2005, the Swiss Justice Ministry denied a work permit to a Turkish Imam invited to work at the Islamic Center in Geneva, due to the Imam's extremist views.Swiss Media Push-back on the War on Terrorism--------------------------------------------- -11.(C) Since the Washington Post claimed in early November 2005 that the United States was operating hidden prisons in Europe, the Swiss media has gone full bore in identifying USG sins, real and imagined. Any news on Guantanamo or Abu Ghraib is guaranteed front-page treatment, whereas Al-Qaeda attacks are relegated to the back pages. Of particular concern is the issue of overflights by alleged CIA charter planes. Italian prosecutors allege that a U.S. military jet traversed Swiss airspace on the day Milan cleric Abu Omar was kidnapped. The Swiss government has repeatedly asked the USG to explain the flight and four charter plane landings at Geneva Airport. Washington has yet to respond.12.(C) Recently, a Swiss tabloid published a leaked Swiss intelligence report of an intercept of an Egyptian government fax. The Swiss Federal Council has condemned the leak and its subsequent publication, and the government has launched administrative and criminal investigations into the matter. The intercepted Egyptian fax claimed that the Egyptian government knew of 23 Iraqi and Afghani prisoners transferred by the USG to prisons in Romania and other Eastern European countries. Swiss officials apologized to Ambassador Willeford for the leak and for the press's overreaction to it. The Ambassador cautioned officials that Switzerland'sBERN 00000141 004 OF 004obsession with the prisons/overflight matter -- driven in significant measure by Swiss Senator Dick Marty -- risked overwhelming Washington's perceptions of Switzerland. Marty, acting in his capacity as head of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly's Justice Commission and not in any official Swiss government capacity, greeted the information cautiously, but criticized the Swiss and other European governments for not disclosing information on the prisoner issue.Comment -------13.(C) Comment: Despite being somewhat shaken by attacks in London and Madrid, the Swiss internal security service continues to assess that Switzerland is relatively safe and that there is no evidence yet of any activity beyond logistical support for Islamic extremists. Swiss opinion leaders among the Parliament and media exhibit little evident concern about the terrorist threat to Switzerland, perhaps contributing to their tendency to focus their criticism on the USG reaction, rather than the initial threat itself. Embassy engagement with Swiss counterparts, reinforced by senior-level visits by USG officials, are helping to move the Swiss to be more forthcoming on information sharing and joint investigations. Absent a direct attack on Swiss interests, however, the process is liable to move very gradually. End comment. Willeford", "tags": ["Switzerland", "The US embassy cables", "US foreign policy", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "US embassy cables: Switzerland and counter-terrorism"},{"date": "2011-01-19T20:32:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss government today pledged to freeze assets belonging to the deposed Tunisian president Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali and his associates, as the race began to track down their hidden billions.Tunisian human rights campaigners and opposition members are attempting to unravel the web of assets believed to spread from Canada and South America to the Gulf, and draw up a \"blacklist\" of misappropriated funds and properties.At the same time, a Tunis prosecutor opened an independent investigation into the overseas assets of the ousted leader and his family, amassed during his 23 years in power. Much of the fortune, allegedly made from pillaging the economy and businesses, is believed to be held in luxury property and secret bank accounts.A number of countries, including France, are examining requests to identify and block any movement of funds belonging to the Ben Ali regime, including relatives of his second wife, Leila Trabelsi, notorious for their greed and corruption.The former first lady was reported to have fled last week to Saudi Arabia with 1.5 tonnes of gold worth \u20ac50m (\u00a342m).The Ben Ali-Trabelsi clan, described in secret US cables as a \"quasi-mafia\", was extensive. Trabelsi was one of 11 children and her offspring \u2013 as well as stepchildren, nephews, cousins and relatives by marriage \u2013 profited from their absolute hold on power and control of the economy.Forbes estimated the president's fortune at about $5bn in 2008, but the Trabelsi family is believed to have amassed several hundred million euros more. The Tunisian writer Abdelaziz Belkhodja circulated a 7,000-word document outlining the suspected pillaging on Facebook today (login required). He said most of the ill-gotten gains were from the illegal privatising of national assets and companies.\"Ben Ali accepted and hid the mafia-like practices of his immediate entourage in full view and with the knowledge of everyone and with the complicity of several members of all state bodies,\" he wrote. \"Every sector of the economy of the country was affected by the rapacity of Ben Ali's family and associates.\" He claimed family members:\u2022 Took control of the Bank of Tunisia and were granted licences to set up banks, pocketing enormous commissions.\u2022 Ran Tunisia's lucrative tuna fishing and export business.\u2022 Had exclusive licences to import vehicles and controlled airports, harbours, tourist attractions, hotels, housing and even the black market in alcohol.\u2022 Controlled the country's internet provider, mobile telephone networks, radio and television and sections of the media.Other assets are said to include an estate worth \u00a31.2m in Westmount, near Montreal, a property on the Rue de Rhone in Geneva and a Falcon 9000 jet parked at Geneva airport. In France, investigations centre on an apartment on the chic Rue du Faubourg Saint Honor\u00e9 in Paris valued at \u20ac37m, an apartment in Courchevel ski resort and a villa on the French Riviera.Belkhodja said Ben Ali and his associates had accumulated riches with an \"arrogance which throws light on the mentality of these people who had no political conscience but were convinced Tunisia belonged to them. These scandals must never be forgotten so the people who have brought this country to its knees will pay for their misdoings.\"", "tags": ["Zine al-Abidine Ben Ali", "World news", "Tunisia", "Switzerland", "France", "Europe", "Africa"], "title": "Search begins for ousted Tunisian president's hidden billions"},{"date": "2011-02-09T00:01:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The galleries were packed for the first encounter between the chancellor, George Osborne, and his new Labour shadow, Ed Balls. Mr Osborne was clearly nervous: he had even increased the taxes on banks, seemingly ad lib, on the radio yesterday morning. Since he reckons to take \u00a3800 million more from the banks, this makes the encounter one of the most expensive in history \u2013 nearly \u00a3200 million per minute!Both sides had come with folders full of sound bites. And a host of dubious statistics. The economy generates such an immense quantity of numbers that it is possible to prove almost anything you want. And they did.Mr Balls asked how it was that the chancellor had blamed the slowing in the UK economy on the weather, whereas the Americans also had terrible weather and their economy was rebounding. Was it the wrong kind of snow?Mr Osborne's lip curled even more than usual. \"Now you and the leader of the opposition know how it is to be people's second choice!\" he sneered. \"He is a man with a past!\" he added, going on to list the many disasters that occurred when Mr Balls was working for Gordon Brown.Mr Balls got his Y-fronts in a twist. The chancellor should have spent less time on the ski slopes of Switzerland and more in the meeting halls of Davos, where he would have been able to hear the US treasury secretary explain why Labour was right. Mr Osborne grew even sneerier. \"He had a lot of time to prepare that, and I'm not sure it came out as expected.\" Was there a winner? Osborne, I would say, but who cares? It means little.Then, after hearing the mewlings and squeakings of various underlings, satraps and myrmidons, up arose Sir Peter Tapsell. (Others stand up; he arises.) Immediately a crack team of seamstresses at the Gobelin factory were alerted to their latest commission: Sir Peter Tapsell Addresses The House Of Commons On The Topic Of Bankers' Bonuses. Improverished women in the stews of Paris wept for joy, for this monumental tapestry would mean their children would have food! And shoes!Sir Peter's assumption of the vertical position was met by loud Labour cheers. He paused for the tidal wave to die down. He spake. (Others speak. He spakes. ) \"Do Tweasury ministers [Sir Peter has a slight speech impediment] agwee that the real pwoblem about bankers' bonuses is that they are not paid out of pwofits, but out of wevenues? Taxing banks after bonuses are paid merely depwesses dividends, particularly for pension funds.'Why are bankers' bonuses not paid out of pwofits, not wevenue, as they always were by own very efficient stockbwoking firm?\"It was a very good question. He sat down to even louder Labour applause, having landed a heavy blow on the government front bench. As for the minister, one Mark Hoban, he had no reply, but blithered and wittered and chuntered until he embarrassed himself.Sir Peter is no Labour supporter. But I bet lots of Labour MPs wish that he was.", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Ed Balls", "Politics", "George Osborne"], "title": "Ed Balls makes George Osborne twitch | Simon Hoggart's sketch"},{"date": "2011-02-20T00:04:13Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "British engineering firm Invensys is being stalked by international rivals considering a bid for the company which employs 8,000 people and is valued at \u00a32.7bn.City sources say predators include Honeywell and Emerson Electric of the US, ABB of Switzerland, Alstom of France, Germany's Siemens and two Chinese firms, CSR and CNR.No offer has been tabled, but potential bidders are said to be reviewing their options. If one fires off a bid, a takeover war is likely to erupt, as Invensys is viewed as one of only a handful of medium-sized engineering firms listed on the stock market, making it vulnerable to a bid. Private firms are more difficult to acquire.Invensys's investors include M&G (10%), Schroder (6%), Standard Life (5.98%), Legal & General (5.7%) and Marathon Asset Management (4.7%).It manufactures rail and signalling equipment and hi-tech products for industrial plants such as oil refineries.Harry Philips, an analyst at Evolution Securities, said the economic cycle had reached a point where companies had a lot of cash after cost-cutting during the recession. \"Now they are looking for acquisitions. In the last fortnight, we have seen GE buy a division of Wood Oil and drugs company Sanofi-Aventis buy Genzyme for \u00a312bn. Invensys wouldn't be a stretch for a company such as Siemens which is capitalised at \u20ac90bn (\u00a376bn) or Honeywell, valued at $40bn (\u00a324.6). But it could be a 'dial changer' for a buyer wanting to beef up in fast-expanding sectors.\"Philips said the market for rail equipment, worth $100bn globally, was booming, with massive infrastructure projects due to come on stream in emerging markets. \"A bid for Invensys would make sense for any of these companies,\" he said.Last year chief executive Ulf Henriksson annoyed the Takeover Panel when he told a newspaper that the rail group, CSR, had the option of acquiring Invensys, implying it would be a logical move. The company had to rush out an announcement to make it clear it wasn't in bid talks with the Chinese firm.Invensys was formed in a merger of Siebe and BTR in 1999. In the past decade, Invensys underwent major restructuring to cut costs. A major disposal programme, combined with debt restructuring in 2004, saved the firm from collapse.", "tags": ["Invensys", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Business", "Engineering", "Manufacturing sector", "Technology", "Siemens"], "title": "Invensys stalked by engineering rivals"},{"date": "2011-02-14T10:55:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "This traditional pre-Lenten Caribbean carnival is friendly and uncommercialised. A mixture of African masquerade and French carnival traditions, it begins at dawn on the first day, when people take to the streets in costumes or pyjamas, banging drums or saucepans. The climax on Carnival Tuesday features costume bands. The streets are so narrow that no one can remain a spectator for long and will soon find themselves jumping up behind a band on a truck.7-8 March, avirtualdominica.comdorivalNice CarnivalIt's mid-February, but you could be strolling through the streets of Nice in your summer garb, enjoying lunch on a sun-kissed terrace, and watching the yachts drifting across the azure Baie des Anges. The Nice Carnival is centred on Place Mass\u00e9na, where you can marvel at the massive floats and merry procession of comical giant heads, troupes of musicians and assorted street art. And as a piece de resistance, you have the spectacle of the battle of flowers on the Promenade des Anglais. Nice offers a splendid combination of the Old Town, with its picturesque alleys, markets and Vieux Port, snuggled up against the wide avenues and pedestrian precincts of the New Town. C'est magnifique.18 February to 8 March, nicecarnaval.comMick McGowanC\u00e1diz carnivalC\u00e1diz has one of the oldest carnivals in the world thanks to its port \u2013 sailors returned home from afar with fashions and trinkets that would be worn during street parties. Groups continue this tradition by dressing as today's celebrities while singing about current news. They are surrounded by revellers, who are also dressed up, resembling a massive British stag do. The atmosphere, however, is far more jubilant in this beautiful city with its narrow cobbled alleys and tiny bars serving delicious Andaluc\u00edan food.3-13 March, cadizturismo.comNiterolSanta Cruz de Tenerife carnival, Canary IslandsThe main events kick off on Friday, 4 March at a parade with a carnival queen, Rio-style dancing groups and clowns. From then till Tuesday it's non-stop partying. No self-respecting reveller goes out before midnight, and they stagger home for breakfast. The Burial of the Sardine on Ash Wednesday, symbolising the end of carnal pleasures, is fun. Wailing widows, mostly blokes in drag, follow the giant fish to the main square, where it's burnt with tragicomic ceremony, followed by fireworks. The final fling is the next Saturday night so everyone can resume normal life on Monday\u2026 reluctantly.To 13 March, carnavaltenerife.eschrisdunhamFasnacht, BaselThree days of processions, bands in the streets, and people in costume reciting stories. There is fun and mayhem, with a lot of confetti thrown (being Swiss, they clean it up quickly). It begins at 4am in the marketplace. A procession of lanterns, drums and piccolos fills the dark square with light and sound. I once lived in Basel and have never forgotten the magic of their carnival.14-16 March, basel.ch/en/PaulinebonnerSchwarzwald carnivalMost towns and villages in the Black Forest run events from the Thursday before Shrove Tuesday to Ash Wednesday and beyond. Customs vary from children going from house to house collecting food, to processions of characters in carved wooden masks. Highlights for us have been the towns of Empfingen (for the straw bears) and Elzach (watch out for the pigs' bladders) and Villingen-Schwenningen.3-8 March, schwarzwald.com/events/fasnacht.htmlalisonwhTrinidad carnivalThe grandaddy of Caribbean carnivals is an assault on the senses. The scale is hard to conceive, as the bigger bands of masqueraders hold thousands, and some costumed players can take up two lanes of the road and tower 20 feet in the air. Revellers parade through the streets to the pulsating sounds of soca music, and the steel pan orchestras are another delight. If you enjoy the Notting Hill carnival, you owe it to yourself to experience the real thing, for in Trinidad, people of all ethnic groups, social classes and ages take part in a public display of the nation's soul. 7-8 March, gotrinidadandtobago.com/trinidad/carnival/dubwise1Barranquilla carnivalThe hometown of Shakira! If you like music, colours, heaps of flowers, dancing, coloured masks, rum, folklore and much more, then Barranquilla is the place to go for carnival. Highlights include the Battle of the Flowers, with carts laden with kaleidoscopic flower arrangements, parades with dancers wearing giant heads with long noses, and, of course, the music of Colombia \u2013 the cumbia, paloteo, congo \u2013 and dancing to match. Colombians know how to party, and Barranquilla is the best of the best!5-8 March, carnavaldebarranquilla.orgearthakittOruro carnivalThousands of dancers and musicians in amazing and sometimes outlandish costumes descend on (or rather ascend to) this sleepy old town 3,700m above sea level in the Andean plateau to party. Growing up there, I loved the water-balloon fights. Take changes of clothes and join in, but acclimatise to the altitude first, otherwise it will be difficult to walk fast, let alone dance.5-6 March, travel-bolivia.com/carnaval-de-oruro.htmlYawarMontevideo carnivalThe longest and best carnival in the world. Why? The longest because it lasts more than 40 days. The best because of the passion, the colours, the music and the traditions. Although it is hosted in Montevideo, the capital, it involves the whole nation. From January to March everybody breaths, eats and dreams of carnival ... and the rest of the year they are preparing for it. It starts with parades in the main avenue to the drum's rhythm of the candombe. The election of the queens, the competitions, the public itself is a show. Best of all is that you see people from 0 to 100+ years old enjoying themselves in the same way.January to March AlexanderBattutaGualeguaych\u00fa carnivalThe Gualeguaych\u00fa carnival is a competition that runs on Saturdays in January and February, with the final in March. We went in 2010 and had an amazing time. There was a great vibe, and people from all over Argentina but hardly any tourists. A family standing next to us came all the way from Uruguay and said they did every year. The parade didn't finish until 2am, after which street parties continued all through the night. To 5 March, welcomeargentina.com/carnavales/index_i.htmlEgelantier ", "tags": ["Travel", "Nice holidays", "France holidays", "Europe holidays", "Uruguay holidays", "South America holidays", "Colombia holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Spain holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Germany holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Trinidad and Tobago holidays", "Canary Islands holidays"], "title": "Readers' tips: carnivals around the world"},{"date": "2011-07-22T04:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the entrance to Z\u00fcrich's largest cemetery is a large white sign detailing all the things that are not allowed \u2013 No Jogging, No Cycling, No Dogs, No Littering, No Beachwear \u2026 Sorry, no beachwear? This is not Barcelona or Brighton. Switzerland is a landlocked country in the middle of Europe; Z\u00fcrich is 200 miles from the sea. It seems highly unlikely that any locals will be wandering round in swimwear, so what's going on? Everything becomes clear once you go down to the nearby lakeshore and see the bodies bobbing around in the water. Welcome to a beach holiday, Swiss style!With 6% of Europe's fresh water flowing through its rivers and lakes, Switzerland has hundreds of natural pools just waiting to be dipped in. And this really is fresh water. Temperatures fluctuate with the weather but are usually at an acceptably refreshing level; low 20s celsius is the summer norm. And this isn't just a rural pursuit \u2013 swimming in Switzerland is very much an urban pastime, too. There's nothing more Swiss than jumping in the water after a hot day at the office, so here's a guide to the best swimming spots in Z\u00fcrich, Bern and Geneva.The country's largest city has its own lake, but don't just jump in wherever you want (there are rules against that of course \u2013 this is Switzerland). Instead, go to a lakeside lido, or Strandbad; you have to pay (typically 7 Swiss francs, about \u00a35.50, for an adult) but it's worth it. There are a few to choose from, but I liked Tiefenbrunnen, the biggest and certainly most popular one. It's huge, with sunbathing lawns, plenty of shade, mountain views and of course acres of lake to splash about. For non-swimmers there's a circular boardwalk built out over the water, with a shallow pool in the middle; the more adventurous can swim out to wooden islands anchored offshore. It's a good way to escape the crowds.After bathing and sunbathing all afternoon, you can pop to the beach next door and relax with cocktails by the water until midnight. Sounds more like Ibiza than Z\u00fcrich, doesn't it? But it's not a real beach, it's a summer-only bar called City Beach, complete with palms, decking, sand and a pool right on the lakefront, and right beside Tiefenbrunnen. On hot summer nights, it's the coolest place to be.My tip Unless you like sunning yourself in your birthday suit, avoid the area labelled FKK. Most Swiss lidos have a nudist section, and Tiefenbrunnen is no exception.Swimming in the river is something Londoners can only dream of, but for the Bernese it's an annual must. The River Aare, has crystal-clear water coming straight down from the Alps, making it cooler than a lake, but infinitely more fun. That's because it's not only about cooling off, it's about going with the flow. The river can be fast, so a few strokes every so often are enough for you to be carried along on this liquid travelator. Not only that but you get a great view of the city, set up on a cliff above the river; it's a sightseeing tour like no other.The best starting point is Marzili, a free riverside lido at the base of parliament hill. I left my things in a pile on the lawns, walked upstream along the shady riverside path for 10-15 minutes, then took the plunge and launched myself in. Getting in is easy, getting out a little trickier. You must swim across the flow towards the bank, grab on to a pole, swing round and up on to the nearest step. Just don't ignore the Last Exit signs. They may seem weird but they're essential: round the bend there's a weir and you really don't want to swim into that.My tip Bring a small inflatable, like a beach ball or air cushion, to hold on to \u2013 then you barely need swim at all, just lie back and float downstream.A swim with a view of a 140m high fountain spurting skywards and grand hotels along the waterfront. I could only be in Geneva, the city that gives urban swimming a bit of chic. Not because it sits at the tip of one of Europe's largest lakes, but thanks to the Bains des P\u00e2quis, the top spot for swimming in Geneva. It isn't that big or that posh, but it's the place to be in summer. It's all about the view, both of the city and your fellow swimmers \u2013 this is prime see-and-be-seen territory for everyone, and entry is only about \u00a31.50. This is city swimming with style.The Bains des P\u00e2quis have been an institution since 1872, though the current art deco incarnation dates from the 30s. What makes them unusual is their location, built on a long breakwater stretching out into the lake. That gives them enough space for some purpose-built pools, sunbathing decks, a cafe and a small beach for lake swimming. When it gets very busy, people overflow on to the rocks of the breakwater, basking in the sun like a herd of sea lions.My tip Go the whole hog and make a day of it. Have a steam in the on-site hammam (\u00a38) followed by a soothing massage (about \u00a347 for 50 minutes).The swiss swimming season runs from May to September, outside then the lidos are closed but you are still allowed to swim where there is open access. For full details on where to swim, see the Swiss Tourist Board's special website (sospo.myswitzerland.com), or why not download its free Swimming Weather app? It even tells you the current water temperatures at each site. I love it!\u2022 Diccon Bewes lives in Bern and is the author of Swiss Watching: Inside Europe's Landlocked Island (Nicholas Brealey, \u00a312.99, dicconbewes.com)", "tags": ["Swimming holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Zurich holidays", "City breaks"], "title": "Urban swimming in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-07-22T04:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the entrance to Z\u00fcrich's largest cemetery is a large white sign detailing all the things that are not allowed \u2013 No Jogging, No Cycling, No Dogs, No Littering, No Beachwear \u2026 Sorry, no beachwear? This is not Barcelona or Brighton. Switzerland is a landlocked country in the middle of Europe; Z\u00fcrich is 200 miles from the sea. It seems highly unlikely that any locals will be wandering round in swimwear, so what's going on? Everything becomes clear once you go down to the nearby lakeshore and see the bodies bobbing around in the water. Welcome to a beach holiday, Swiss style!With 6% of Europe's fresh water flowing through its rivers and lakes, Switzerland has hundreds of natural pools just waiting to be dipped in. And this really is fresh water. Temperatures fluctuate with the weather but are usually at an acceptably refreshing level; low 20s celsius is the summer norm. And this isn't just a rural pursuit \u2013 swimming in Switzerland is very much an urban pastime, too. There's nothing more Swiss than jumping in the water after a hot day at the office, so here's a guide to the best swimming spots in Z\u00fcrich, Bern and Geneva.The country's largest city has its own lake, but don't just jump in wherever you want (there are rules against that of course \u2013 this is Switzerland). Instead, go to a lakeside lido, or Strandbad; you have to pay (typically 7 Swiss francs, about \u00a35.50, for an adult) but it's worth it. There are a few to choose from, but I liked Tiefenbrunnen, the biggest and certainly most popular one. It's huge, with sunbathing lawns, plenty of shade, mountain views and of course acres of lake to splash about. For non-swimmers there's a circular boardwalk built out over the water, with a shallow pool in the middle; the more adventurous can swim out to wooden islands anchored offshore. It's a good way to escape the crowds.After bathing and sunbathing all afternoon, you can pop to the beach next door and relax with cocktails by the water until midnight. Sounds more like Ibiza than Z\u00fcrich, doesn't it? But it's not a real beach, it's a summer-only bar called City Beach, complete with palms, decking, sand and a pool right on the lakefront, and right beside Tiefenbrunnen. On hot summer nights, it's the coolest place to be.My tip Unless you like sunning yourself in your birthday suit, avoid the area labelled FKK. Most Swiss lidos have a nudist section, and Tiefenbrunnen is no exception.Swimming in the river is something Londoners can only dream of, but for the Bernese it's an annual must. The River Aare, has crystal-clear water coming straight down from the Alps, making it cooler than a lake, but infinitely more fun. That's because it's not only about cooling off, it's about going with the flow. The river can be fast, so a few strokes every so often are enough for you to be carried along on this liquid travelator. Not only that but you get a great view of the city, set up on a cliff above the river; it's a sightseeing tour like no other.The best starting point is Marzili, a free riverside lido at the base of parliament hill. I left my things in a pile on the lawns, walked upstream along the shady riverside path for 10-15 minutes, then took the plunge and launched myself in. Getting in is easy, getting out a little trickier. You must swim across the flow towards the bank, grab on to a pole, swing round and up on to the nearest step. Just don't ignore the Last Exit signs. They may seem weird but they're essential: round the bend there's a weir and you really don't want to swim into that.My tip Bring a small inflatable, like a beach ball or air cushion, to hold on to \u2013 then you barely need swim at all, just lie back and float downstream.A swim with a view of a 140m high fountain spurting skywards and grand hotels along the waterfront. I could only be in Geneva, the city that gives urban swimming a bit of chic. Not because it sits at the tip of one of Europe's largest lakes, but thanks to the Bains des P\u00e2quis, the top spot for swimming in Geneva. It isn't that big or that posh, but it's the place to be in summer. It's all about the view, both of the city and your fellow swimmers \u2013 this is prime see-and-be-seen territory for everyone, and entry is only about \u00a31.50. This is city swimming with style.The Bains des P\u00e2quis have been an institution since 1872, though the current art deco incarnation dates from the 30s. What makes them unusual is their location, built on a long breakwater stretching out into the lake. That gives them enough space for some purpose-built pools, sunbathing decks, a cafe and a small beach for lake swimming. When it gets very busy, people overflow on to the rocks of the breakwater, basking in the sun like a herd of sea lions.My tip Go the whole hog and make a day of it. Have a steam in the on-site hammam (\u00a38) followed by a soothing massage (about \u00a347 for 50 minutes).The swiss swimming season runs from May to September, outside then the lidos are closed but you are still allowed to swim where there is open access. For full details on where to swim, see the Swiss Tourist Board's special website (sospo.myswitzerland.com), or why not download its free Swimming Weather app? It even tells you the current water temperatures at each site. I love it!\u2022 Diccon Bewes lives in Bern and is the author of Swiss Watching: Inside Europe's Landlocked Island (Nicholas Brealey, \u00a312.99, dicconbewes.com)", "tags": ["Swimming holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Zurich holidays", "City breaks"], "title": "Urban swimming in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-08-03T08:28:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss authorities have moved to counteract what the national bank called the \"massive overvaluation\" of the Swiss franc.The measures \u2013 a huge increase in the supply of Swiss francs and a pledge that interest rates will be pegged at or near 0% \u2013 came as investors flocked to buy francs as a safe haven from the turmoil affecting the eurozone and the world economy.\"The Swiss National Bank (SNB) considers the Swiss franc to be massively overvalued at present. This current strength of the Swiss franc is threatening the development of the economy and increasing the downside risks to price stability in Switzerland. The SNB will not tolerate a continual tightening of monetary conditions and is therefore taking measures against the strong Swiss franc,\" the SNB said in a statement.City analysts welcomed the move, which came as world stock markets fell sharply again. They questioned, though, whether the SNB could successfully repel the rush for safety.\"Today's actions will weaken the fundamental attractiveness of the Swiss franc,\" said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabonank. \"The SNB will be well aware that it is swimming against the tide and that without a solution to the eurozone sovereign debt crisis it will be difficult to convince investors to dump the Swiss franc.\"The SNB has lowered its target range for the London interbank offered rate \u2013 the official Swiss interest rate \u2013 to 0%-0.25% from 0%-0.75%.It will also increase the Swiss money supply, increasing banks' \"sight deposits\", cash which they can instantly draw on, at the SNB from SFr30bn (\u00a324bn) to SFr80bn.The intervention pushed the Swiss currency lower on the foreign exchange markets, losing about 2% against the euro to SFr1.105. It had previously hit a new high of SFr1.0793 on Wednesday, and appeared to be on track to hit parity with the euro.The high currency has made life difficult for Swiss exporters, as their goods become relatively more expensive.Janwillem Acket of Julius Baer told Reuters: \"[The move] makes a lot of sense but [it] remains to be seen how successful it will be as long as the market sees Switzerland as so much better off than the rest of the world.\"", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "Market turmoil", "Swiss franc"], "title": "Switzerland moves to contain franc appreciation"},{"date": "2011-07-22T04:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the entrance to Z\u00fcrich's largest cemetery is a large white sign detailing all the things that are not allowed \u2013 No Jogging, No Cycling, No Dogs, No Littering, No Beachwear \u2026 Sorry, no beachwear? This is not Barcelona or Brighton. Switzerland is a landlocked country in the middle of Europe; Z\u00fcrich is 200 miles from the sea. It seems highly unlikely that any locals will be wandering round in swimwear, so what's going on? Everything becomes clear once you go down to the nearby lakeshore and see the bodies bobbing around in the water. Welcome to a beach holiday, Swiss style!With 6% of Europe's fresh water flowing through its rivers and lakes, Switzerland has hundreds of natural pools just waiting to be dipped in. And this really is fresh water. Temperatures fluctuate with the weather but are usually at an acceptably refreshing level; low 20s celsius is the summer norm. And this isn't just a rural pursuit \u2013 swimming in Switzerland is very much an urban pastime, too. There's nothing more Swiss than jumping in the water after a hot day at the office, so here's a guide to the best swimming spots in Z\u00fcrich, Bern and Geneva.The country's largest city has its own lake, but don't just jump in wherever you want (there are rules against that of course \u2013 this is Switzerland). Instead, go to a lakeside lido, or Strandbad; you have to pay (typically 7 Swiss francs, about \u00a35.50, for an adult) but it's worth it. There are a few to choose from, but I liked Tiefenbrunnen, the biggest and certainly most popular one. It's huge, with sunbathing lawns, plenty of shade, mountain views and of course acres of lake to splash about. For non-swimmers there's a circular boardwalk built out over the water, with a shallow pool in the middle; the more adventurous can swim out to wooden islands anchored offshore. It's a good way to escape the crowds.After bathing and sunbathing all afternoon, you can pop to the beach next door and relax with cocktails by the water until midnight. Sounds more like Ibiza than Z\u00fcrich, doesn't it? But it's not a real beach, it's a summer-only bar called City Beach, complete with palms, decking, sand and a pool right on the lakefront, and right beside Tiefenbrunnen. On hot summer nights, it's the coolest place to be.My tip Unless you like sunning yourself in your birthday suit, avoid the area labelled FKK. Most Swiss lidos have a nudist section, and Tiefenbrunnen is no exception.Swimming in the river is something Londoners can only dream of, but for the Bernese it's an annual must. The River Aare, has crystal-clear water coming straight down from the Alps, making it cooler than a lake, but infinitely more fun. That's because it's not only about cooling off, it's about going with the flow. The river can be fast, so a few strokes every so often are enough for you to be carried along on this liquid travelator. Not only that but you get a great view of the city, set up on a cliff above the river; it's a sightseeing tour like no other.The best starting point is Marzili, a free riverside lido at the base of parliament hill. I left my things in a pile on the lawns, walked upstream along the shady riverside path for 10-15 minutes, then took the plunge and launched myself in. Getting in is easy, getting out a little trickier. You must swim across the flow towards the bank, grab on to a pole, swing round and up on to the nearest step. Just don't ignore the Last Exit signs. They may seem weird but they're essential: round the bend there's a weir and you really don't want to swim into that.My tip Bring a small inflatable, like a beach ball or air cushion, to hold on to \u2013 then you barely need swim at all, just lie back and float downstream.A swim with a view of a 140m high fountain spurting skywards and grand hotels along the waterfront. I could only be in Geneva, the city that gives urban swimming a bit of chic. Not because it sits at the tip of one of Europe's largest lakes, but thanks to the Bains des P\u00e2quis, the top spot for swimming in Geneva. It isn't that big or that posh, but it's the place to be in summer. It's all about the view, both of the city and your fellow swimmers \u2013 this is prime see-and-be-seen territory for everyone, and entry is only about \u00a31.50. This is city swimming with style.The Bains des P\u00e2quis have been an institution since 1872, though the current art deco incarnation dates from the 30s. What makes them unusual is their location, built on a long breakwater stretching out into the lake. That gives them enough space for some purpose-built pools, sunbathing decks, a cafe and a small beach for lake swimming. When it gets very busy, people overflow on to the rocks of the breakwater, basking in the sun like a herd of sea lions.My tip Go the whole hog and make a day of it. Have a steam in the on-site hammam (\u00a38) followed by a soothing massage (about \u00a347 for 50 minutes).The swiss swimming season runs from May to September, outside then the lidos are closed but you are still allowed to swim where there is open access. For full details on where to swim, see the Swiss Tourist Board's special website (sospo.myswitzerland.com), or why not download its free Swimming Weather app? It even tells you the current water temperatures at each site. I love it!\u2022 Diccon Bewes lives in Bern and is the author of Swiss Watching: Inside Europe's Landlocked Island (Nicholas Brealey, \u00a312.99, dicconbewes.com)", "tags": ["Swimming holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Zurich holidays", "City breaks"], "title": "Urban swimming in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-08-03T08:28:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss authorities have moved to counteract what the national bank called the \"massive overvaluation\" of the Swiss franc.The measures \u2013 a huge increase in the supply of Swiss francs and a pledge that interest rates will be pegged at or near 0% \u2013 came as investors flocked to buy francs as a safe haven from the turmoil affecting the eurozone and the world economy.\"The Swiss National Bank (SNB) considers the Swiss franc to be massively overvalued at present. This current strength of the Swiss franc is threatening the development of the economy and increasing the downside risks to price stability in Switzerland. The SNB will not tolerate a continual tightening of monetary conditions and is therefore taking measures against the strong Swiss franc,\" the SNB said in a statement.City analysts welcomed the move, which came as world stock markets fell sharply again. They questioned, though, whether the SNB could successfully repel the rush for safety.\"Today's actions will weaken the fundamental attractiveness of the Swiss franc,\" said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabonank. \"The SNB will be well aware that it is swimming against the tide and that without a solution to the eurozone sovereign debt crisis it will be difficult to convince investors to dump the Swiss franc.\"The SNB has lowered its target range for the London interbank offered rate \u2013 the official Swiss interest rate \u2013 to 0%-0.25% from 0%-0.75%.It will also increase the Swiss money supply, increasing banks' \"sight deposits\", cash which they can instantly draw on, at the SNB from SFr30bn (\u00a324bn) to SFr80bn.The intervention pushed the Swiss currency lower on the foreign exchange markets, losing about 2% against the euro to SFr1.105. It had previously hit a new high of SFr1.0793 on Wednesday, and appeared to be on track to hit parity with the euro.The high currency has made life difficult for Swiss exporters, as their goods become relatively more expensive.Janwillem Acket of Julius Baer told Reuters: \"[The move] makes a lot of sense but [it] remains to be seen how successful it will be as long as the market sees Switzerland as so much better off than the rest of the world.\"", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "Market turmoil", "Swiss franc"], "title": "Switzerland moves to contain franc appreciation"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:34:44Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tax authorities would not have been able to break Swiss banking secrecy for 10 years or more, a senior civil servant has said, in a defence of HMRC's controversial tax deal under which tax will be paid on cash in Swiss bank accounts, but under condition of anonymity. Critics say eventually international pressure would have forced Switzerland to remove the veil of anonymity from account holders there. But HMRC permanent secretary for tax Dave Hartnett told the Treasury sub-committee on Monday that in the next 10 years breaking down Swiss banking secrecy certainly \"seemed very unlikely\".Tax campaigner Richard Murphy has argued that the deal has delayed international efforts to break down Swiss secrecy. \"I am not saying Swiss bank secrecy was going to break down tomorrow. But the US is making big progress, the direction of travel is substantially in the direction of openness. This deal has guaranteed that anonymity is reinforced,\" he said on Monday.The Swiss deal has been heavily criticised by some, who suggest that in allowing some tax evaders to pay a one-off repayment of tax due, as well as ongoing tax on interest earned in Switzerland, it has let evaders off much bigger bills. The cash held in Swiss accounts may not have been taxed when it was earned, some suggest, and normally tax evaders face big penalties on top of having to pay the tax due.The tax rates applied to Swiss accounts are also fractionally lower than the equivalent rates in the UK. Hartnett told MPs on Monday that the rates were lower because the tax would be taken earlier in the year, and therefore reflected timing differences.HMRC, and Hartnett in particular, have been beset with criticism in recent years. The UK Uncut tax protest movement has campaigned against what it argues were cosy deals done by Hartnett and HMRC with taxpayers like Vodafone and Goldman Sachs to write off significant tax liabilities relating to tax avoidance set-ups.A steady feed of allegations apparently leaked from within HMRC has appeared in Private Eye in relation to both the Vodafone and Goldman's arrangements.Hartnett told MPs he could not discuss either deal on Monday, but did dispute suggestions that he had received corporate hospitality from Goldman Sachs, compromising his position: \"I have been to a supper with Goldman Sachs. I went with a managing director from the Treasury to talk to 20 chief financial officers about developments in tax policy. I knew nothing of Goldman's tax affairs when I was at that supper. I don't deal with Goldman's tax affairs.\"", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK Uncut", "Vodafone"], "title": "HM Revenue & Customs defends tax deal with Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-07-22T04:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the entrance to Z\u00fcrich's largest cemetery is a large white sign detailing all the things that are not allowed \u2013 No Jogging, No Cycling, No Dogs, No Littering, No Beachwear \u2026 Sorry, no beachwear? This is not Barcelona or Brighton. Switzerland is a landlocked country in the middle of Europe; Z\u00fcrich is 200 miles from the sea. It seems highly unlikely that any locals will be wandering round in swimwear, so what's going on? Everything becomes clear once you go down to the nearby lakeshore and see the bodies bobbing around in the water. Welcome to a beach holiday, Swiss style!With 6% of Europe's fresh water flowing through its rivers and lakes, Switzerland has hundreds of natural pools just waiting to be dipped in. And this really is fresh water. Temperatures fluctuate with the weather but are usually at an acceptably refreshing level; low 20s celsius is the summer norm. And this isn't just a rural pursuit \u2013 swimming in Switzerland is very much an urban pastime, too. There's nothing more Swiss than jumping in the water after a hot day at the office, so here's a guide to the best swimming spots in Z\u00fcrich, Bern and Geneva.The country's largest city has its own lake, but don't just jump in wherever you want (there are rules against that of course \u2013 this is Switzerland). Instead, go to a lakeside lido, or Strandbad; you have to pay (typically 7 Swiss francs, about \u00a35.50, for an adult) but it's worth it. There are a few to choose from, but I liked Tiefenbrunnen, the biggest and certainly most popular one. It's huge, with sunbathing lawns, plenty of shade, mountain views and of course acres of lake to splash about. For non-swimmers there's a circular boardwalk built out over the water, with a shallow pool in the middle; the more adventurous can swim out to wooden islands anchored offshore. It's a good way to escape the crowds.After bathing and sunbathing all afternoon, you can pop to the beach next door and relax with cocktails by the water until midnight. Sounds more like Ibiza than Z\u00fcrich, doesn't it? But it's not a real beach, it's a summer-only bar called City Beach, complete with palms, decking, sand and a pool right on the lakefront, and right beside Tiefenbrunnen. On hot summer nights, it's the coolest place to be.My tip Unless you like sunning yourself in your birthday suit, avoid the area labelled FKK. Most Swiss lidos have a nudist section, and Tiefenbrunnen is no exception.Swimming in the river is something Londoners can only dream of, but for the Bernese it's an annual must. The River Aare, has crystal-clear water coming straight down from the Alps, making it cooler than a lake, but infinitely more fun. That's because it's not only about cooling off, it's about going with the flow. The river can be fast, so a few strokes every so often are enough for you to be carried along on this liquid travelator. Not only that but you get a great view of the city, set up on a cliff above the river; it's a sightseeing tour like no other.The best starting point is Marzili, a free riverside lido at the base of parliament hill. I left my things in a pile on the lawns, walked upstream along the shady riverside path for 10-15 minutes, then took the plunge and launched myself in. Getting in is easy, getting out a little trickier. You must swim across the flow towards the bank, grab on to a pole, swing round and up on to the nearest step. Just don't ignore the Last Exit signs. They may seem weird but they're essential: round the bend there's a weir and you really don't want to swim into that.My tip Bring a small inflatable, like a beach ball or air cushion, to hold on to \u2013 then you barely need swim at all, just lie back and float downstream.A swim with a view of a 140m high fountain spurting skywards and grand hotels along the waterfront. I could only be in Geneva, the city that gives urban swimming a bit of chic. Not because it sits at the tip of one of Europe's largest lakes, but thanks to the Bains des P\u00e2quis, the top spot for swimming in Geneva. It isn't that big or that posh, but it's the place to be in summer. It's all about the view, both of the city and your fellow swimmers \u2013 this is prime see-and-be-seen territory for everyone, and entry is only about \u00a31.50. This is city swimming with style.The Bains des P\u00e2quis have been an institution since 1872, though the current art deco incarnation dates from the 30s. What makes them unusual is their location, built on a long breakwater stretching out into the lake. That gives them enough space for some purpose-built pools, sunbathing decks, a cafe and a small beach for lake swimming. When it gets very busy, people overflow on to the rocks of the breakwater, basking in the sun like a herd of sea lions.My tip Go the whole hog and make a day of it. Have a steam in the on-site hammam (\u00a38) followed by a soothing massage (about \u00a347 for 50 minutes).The swiss swimming season runs from May to September, outside then the lidos are closed but you are still allowed to swim where there is open access. For full details on where to swim, see the Swiss Tourist Board's special website (sospo.myswitzerland.com), or why not download its free Swimming Weather app? It even tells you the current water temperatures at each site. I love it!\u2022 Diccon Bewes lives in Bern and is the author of Swiss Watching: Inside Europe's Landlocked Island (Nicholas Brealey, \u00a312.99, dicconbewes.com)", "tags": ["Swimming holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Zurich holidays", "City breaks"], "title": "Urban swimming in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-08-03T08:28:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss authorities have moved to counteract what the national bank called the \"massive overvaluation\" of the Swiss franc.The measures \u2013 a huge increase in the supply of Swiss francs and a pledge that interest rates will be pegged at or near 0% \u2013 came as investors flocked to buy francs as a safe haven from the turmoil affecting the eurozone and the world economy.\"The Swiss National Bank (SNB) considers the Swiss franc to be massively overvalued at present. This current strength of the Swiss franc is threatening the development of the economy and increasing the downside risks to price stability in Switzerland. The SNB will not tolerate a continual tightening of monetary conditions and is therefore taking measures against the strong Swiss franc,\" the SNB said in a statement.City analysts welcomed the move, which came as world stock markets fell sharply again. They questioned, though, whether the SNB could successfully repel the rush for safety.\"Today's actions will weaken the fundamental attractiveness of the Swiss franc,\" said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabonank. \"The SNB will be well aware that it is swimming against the tide and that without a solution to the eurozone sovereign debt crisis it will be difficult to convince investors to dump the Swiss franc.\"The SNB has lowered its target range for the London interbank offered rate \u2013 the official Swiss interest rate \u2013 to 0%-0.25% from 0%-0.75%.It will also increase the Swiss money supply, increasing banks' \"sight deposits\", cash which they can instantly draw on, at the SNB from SFr30bn (\u00a324bn) to SFr80bn.The intervention pushed the Swiss currency lower on the foreign exchange markets, losing about 2% against the euro to SFr1.105. It had previously hit a new high of SFr1.0793 on Wednesday, and appeared to be on track to hit parity with the euro.The high currency has made life difficult for Swiss exporters, as their goods become relatively more expensive.Janwillem Acket of Julius Baer told Reuters: \"[The move] makes a lot of sense but [it] remains to be seen how successful it will be as long as the market sees Switzerland as so much better off than the rest of the world.\"", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "Market turmoil", "Swiss franc"], "title": "Switzerland moves to contain franc appreciation"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:34:44Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tax authorities would not have been able to break Swiss banking secrecy for 10 years or more, a senior civil servant has said, in a defence of HMRC's controversial tax deal under which tax will be paid on cash in Swiss bank accounts, but under condition of anonymity. Critics say eventually international pressure would have forced Switzerland to remove the veil of anonymity from account holders there. But HMRC permanent secretary for tax Dave Hartnett told the Treasury sub-committee on Monday that in the next 10 years breaking down Swiss banking secrecy certainly \"seemed very unlikely\".Tax campaigner Richard Murphy has argued that the deal has delayed international efforts to break down Swiss secrecy. \"I am not saying Swiss bank secrecy was going to break down tomorrow. But the US is making big progress, the direction of travel is substantially in the direction of openness. This deal has guaranteed that anonymity is reinforced,\" he said on Monday.The Swiss deal has been heavily criticised by some, who suggest that in allowing some tax evaders to pay a one-off repayment of tax due, as well as ongoing tax on interest earned in Switzerland, it has let evaders off much bigger bills. The cash held in Swiss accounts may not have been taxed when it was earned, some suggest, and normally tax evaders face big penalties on top of having to pay the tax due.The tax rates applied to Swiss accounts are also fractionally lower than the equivalent rates in the UK. Hartnett told MPs on Monday that the rates were lower because the tax would be taken earlier in the year, and therefore reflected timing differences.HMRC, and Hartnett in particular, have been beset with criticism in recent years. The UK Uncut tax protest movement has campaigned against what it argues were cosy deals done by Hartnett and HMRC with taxpayers like Vodafone and Goldman Sachs to write off significant tax liabilities relating to tax avoidance set-ups.A steady feed of allegations apparently leaked from within HMRC has appeared in Private Eye in relation to both the Vodafone and Goldman's arrangements.Hartnett told MPs he could not discuss either deal on Monday, but did dispute suggestions that he had received corporate hospitality from Goldman Sachs, compromising his position: \"I have been to a supper with Goldman Sachs. I went with a managing director from the Treasury to talk to 20 chief financial officers about developments in tax policy. I knew nothing of Goldman's tax affairs when I was at that supper. I don't deal with Goldman's tax affairs.\"", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK Uncut", "Vodafone"], "title": "HM Revenue & Customs defends tax deal with Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-09-15T13:24:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost exactly two years after his arrest in Zurich at the request of the US Justice Department, Roman Polanski is due back in the Swiss city on 27 September to receive the lifetime achievement award he was unable to accept in 2009 after the intervention of the authorities, according to a report by Variety.Polanski, 78, is still a wanted man in the US, after pleading guilty in 1977 to a charge of unlawful sex with a minor and then fleeing the country before sentencing. He was arrested at Zurich airport by Swiss police as he was on his way to the Zurich film festival to be presented with the award. Polanski was subsequently put under house arrest in Switzerland while the case was argued, and was released by the Swiss authorties in July 2010 after his extradition was refused.The Zurich film festival issued a statement from its directors Karl Spoerri and Nadja Schildknecht: \"We are especially proud to welcome Roman Polanski this year to receive his award. We have always been tremendous admirers of his work, and we are delighted that we will soon be able to express this to him in person.\"Since his detention, Polanski has completed his new film, Carnage, which premiered to admiring reviews at the Venice film festival a fortnight ago.", "tags": ["Film", "Roman Polanski", "Awards and prizes", "Culture"], "title": "Roman Polanski to return to Switzerland to receive award"},{"date": "2011-07-22T04:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the entrance to Z\u00fcrich's largest cemetery is a large white sign detailing all the things that are not allowed \u2013 No Jogging, No Cycling, No Dogs, No Littering, No Beachwear \u2026 Sorry, no beachwear? This is not Barcelona or Brighton. Switzerland is a landlocked country in the middle of Europe; Z\u00fcrich is 200 miles from the sea. It seems highly unlikely that any locals will be wandering round in swimwear, so what's going on? Everything becomes clear once you go down to the nearby lakeshore and see the bodies bobbing around in the water. Welcome to a beach holiday, Swiss style!With 6% of Europe's fresh water flowing through its rivers and lakes, Switzerland has hundreds of natural pools just waiting to be dipped in. And this really is fresh water. Temperatures fluctuate with the weather but are usually at an acceptably refreshing level; low 20s celsius is the summer norm. And this isn't just a rural pursuit \u2013 swimming in Switzerland is very much an urban pastime, too. There's nothing more Swiss than jumping in the water after a hot day at the office, so here's a guide to the best swimming spots in Z\u00fcrich, Bern and Geneva.The country's largest city has its own lake, but don't just jump in wherever you want (there are rules against that of course \u2013 this is Switzerland). Instead, go to a lakeside lido, or Strandbad; you have to pay (typically 7 Swiss francs, about \u00a35.50, for an adult) but it's worth it. There are a few to choose from, but I liked Tiefenbrunnen, the biggest and certainly most popular one. It's huge, with sunbathing lawns, plenty of shade, mountain views and of course acres of lake to splash about. For non-swimmers there's a circular boardwalk built out over the water, with a shallow pool in the middle; the more adventurous can swim out to wooden islands anchored offshore. It's a good way to escape the crowds.After bathing and sunbathing all afternoon, you can pop to the beach next door and relax with cocktails by the water until midnight. Sounds more like Ibiza than Z\u00fcrich, doesn't it? But it's not a real beach, it's a summer-only bar called City Beach, complete with palms, decking, sand and a pool right on the lakefront, and right beside Tiefenbrunnen. On hot summer nights, it's the coolest place to be.My tip Unless you like sunning yourself in your birthday suit, avoid the area labelled FKK. Most Swiss lidos have a nudist section, and Tiefenbrunnen is no exception.Swimming in the river is something Londoners can only dream of, but for the Bernese it's an annual must. The River Aare, has crystal-clear water coming straight down from the Alps, making it cooler than a lake, but infinitely more fun. That's because it's not only about cooling off, it's about going with the flow. The river can be fast, so a few strokes every so often are enough for you to be carried along on this liquid travelator. Not only that but you get a great view of the city, set up on a cliff above the river; it's a sightseeing tour like no other.The best starting point is Marzili, a free riverside lido at the base of parliament hill. I left my things in a pile on the lawns, walked upstream along the shady riverside path for 10-15 minutes, then took the plunge and launched myself in. Getting in is easy, getting out a little trickier. You must swim across the flow towards the bank, grab on to a pole, swing round and up on to the nearest step. Just don't ignore the Last Exit signs. They may seem weird but they're essential: round the bend there's a weir and you really don't want to swim into that.My tip Bring a small inflatable, like a beach ball or air cushion, to hold on to \u2013 then you barely need swim at all, just lie back and float downstream.A swim with a view of a 140m high fountain spurting skywards and grand hotels along the waterfront. I could only be in Geneva, the city that gives urban swimming a bit of chic. Not because it sits at the tip of one of Europe's largest lakes, but thanks to the Bains des P\u00e2quis, the top spot for swimming in Geneva. It isn't that big or that posh, but it's the place to be in summer. It's all about the view, both of the city and your fellow swimmers \u2013 this is prime see-and-be-seen territory for everyone, and entry is only about \u00a31.50. This is city swimming with style.The Bains des P\u00e2quis have been an institution since 1872, though the current art deco incarnation dates from the 30s. What makes them unusual is their location, built on a long breakwater stretching out into the lake. That gives them enough space for some purpose-built pools, sunbathing decks, a cafe and a small beach for lake swimming. When it gets very busy, people overflow on to the rocks of the breakwater, basking in the sun like a herd of sea lions.My tip Go the whole hog and make a day of it. Have a steam in the on-site hammam (\u00a38) followed by a soothing massage (about \u00a347 for 50 minutes).The swiss swimming season runs from May to September, outside then the lidos are closed but you are still allowed to swim where there is open access. For full details on where to swim, see the Swiss Tourist Board's special website (sospo.myswitzerland.com), or why not download its free Swimming Weather app? It even tells you the current water temperatures at each site. I love it!\u2022 Diccon Bewes lives in Bern and is the author of Swiss Watching: Inside Europe's Landlocked Island (Nicholas Brealey, \u00a312.99, dicconbewes.com)", "tags": ["Swimming holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Zurich holidays", "City breaks"], "title": "Urban swimming in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-08-03T08:28:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss authorities have moved to counteract what the national bank called the \"massive overvaluation\" of the Swiss franc.The measures \u2013 a huge increase in the supply of Swiss francs and a pledge that interest rates will be pegged at or near 0% \u2013 came as investors flocked to buy francs as a safe haven from the turmoil affecting the eurozone and the world economy.\"The Swiss National Bank (SNB) considers the Swiss franc to be massively overvalued at present. This current strength of the Swiss franc is threatening the development of the economy and increasing the downside risks to price stability in Switzerland. The SNB will not tolerate a continual tightening of monetary conditions and is therefore taking measures against the strong Swiss franc,\" the SNB said in a statement.City analysts welcomed the move, which came as world stock markets fell sharply again. They questioned, though, whether the SNB could successfully repel the rush for safety.\"Today's actions will weaken the fundamental attractiveness of the Swiss franc,\" said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabonank. \"The SNB will be well aware that it is swimming against the tide and that without a solution to the eurozone sovereign debt crisis it will be difficult to convince investors to dump the Swiss franc.\"The SNB has lowered its target range for the London interbank offered rate \u2013 the official Swiss interest rate \u2013 to 0%-0.25% from 0%-0.75%.It will also increase the Swiss money supply, increasing banks' \"sight deposits\", cash which they can instantly draw on, at the SNB from SFr30bn (\u00a324bn) to SFr80bn.The intervention pushed the Swiss currency lower on the foreign exchange markets, losing about 2% against the euro to SFr1.105. It had previously hit a new high of SFr1.0793 on Wednesday, and appeared to be on track to hit parity with the euro.The high currency has made life difficult for Swiss exporters, as their goods become relatively more expensive.Janwillem Acket of Julius Baer told Reuters: \"[The move] makes a lot of sense but [it] remains to be seen how successful it will be as long as the market sees Switzerland as so much better off than the rest of the world.\"", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "Market turmoil", "Swiss franc"], "title": "Switzerland moves to contain franc appreciation"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:34:44Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tax authorities would not have been able to break Swiss banking secrecy for 10 years or more, a senior civil servant has said, in a defence of HMRC's controversial tax deal under which tax will be paid on cash in Swiss bank accounts, but under condition of anonymity. Critics say eventually international pressure would have forced Switzerland to remove the veil of anonymity from account holders there. But HMRC permanent secretary for tax Dave Hartnett told the Treasury sub-committee on Monday that in the next 10 years breaking down Swiss banking secrecy certainly \"seemed very unlikely\".Tax campaigner Richard Murphy has argued that the deal has delayed international efforts to break down Swiss secrecy. \"I am not saying Swiss bank secrecy was going to break down tomorrow. But the US is making big progress, the direction of travel is substantially in the direction of openness. This deal has guaranteed that anonymity is reinforced,\" he said on Monday.The Swiss deal has been heavily criticised by some, who suggest that in allowing some tax evaders to pay a one-off repayment of tax due, as well as ongoing tax on interest earned in Switzerland, it has let evaders off much bigger bills. The cash held in Swiss accounts may not have been taxed when it was earned, some suggest, and normally tax evaders face big penalties on top of having to pay the tax due.The tax rates applied to Swiss accounts are also fractionally lower than the equivalent rates in the UK. Hartnett told MPs on Monday that the rates were lower because the tax would be taken earlier in the year, and therefore reflected timing differences.HMRC, and Hartnett in particular, have been beset with criticism in recent years. The UK Uncut tax protest movement has campaigned against what it argues were cosy deals done by Hartnett and HMRC with taxpayers like Vodafone and Goldman Sachs to write off significant tax liabilities relating to tax avoidance set-ups.A steady feed of allegations apparently leaked from within HMRC has appeared in Private Eye in relation to both the Vodafone and Goldman's arrangements.Hartnett told MPs he could not discuss either deal on Monday, but did dispute suggestions that he had received corporate hospitality from Goldman Sachs, compromising his position: \"I have been to a supper with Goldman Sachs. I went with a managing director from the Treasury to talk to 20 chief financial officers about developments in tax policy. I knew nothing of Goldman's tax affairs when I was at that supper. I don't deal with Goldman's tax affairs.\"", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK Uncut", "Vodafone"], "title": "HM Revenue & Customs defends tax deal with Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-09-15T13:24:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost exactly two years after his arrest in Zurich at the request of the US Justice Department, Roman Polanski is due back in the Swiss city on 27 September to receive the lifetime achievement award he was unable to accept in 2009 after the intervention of the authorities, according to a report by Variety.Polanski, 78, is still a wanted man in the US, after pleading guilty in 1977 to a charge of unlawful sex with a minor and then fleeing the country before sentencing. He was arrested at Zurich airport by Swiss police as he was on his way to the Zurich film festival to be presented with the award. Polanski was subsequently put under house arrest in Switzerland while the case was argued, and was released by the Swiss authorties in July 2010 after his extradition was refused.The Zurich film festival issued a statement from its directors Karl Spoerri and Nadja Schildknecht: \"We are especially proud to welcome Roman Polanski this year to receive his award. We have always been tremendous admirers of his work, and we are delighted that we will soon be able to express this to him in person.\"Since his detention, Polanski has completed his new film, Carnage, which premiered to admiring reviews at the Venice film festival a fortnight ago.", "tags": ["Film", "Roman Polanski", "Awards and prizes", "Culture"], "title": "Roman Polanski to return to Switzerland to receive award"},{"date": "2011-09-06T21:31:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "European shares dropped to their lowest level in more than two years after the single currency's debt crisis forced Switzerland to take emergency action to cap the franc's rise on the world's foreign exchanges.Prompting fears of an outbreak of currency wars, the Swiss central bank said it would do whatever was necessary to halt the hot money flows that threaten one of the world's richest countries with recession and deflation.The move to set a limit of 1.20 Swiss francs to the euro came at the start of another turbulent day that saw shares under pressure, US and German bond prices rise and the Norwegian krone become the safe haven of choice for currency investors burnt by the Swiss decision to reverse the appreciation of the franc, which lost a record 9% of its value within 15 minutes of the announcement.Jeremy Cook, chief economist at currency brokers World First, said: \"That was the single largest foreign exchange move I have ever seen. This is intervention on a grand scale.\"This turns up the heat on the eurozone and other economies who have benefited from weakening their currency in the past couple of years.\"Chris Turner, head of foreign exchange strategy at ING, said the Swiss central bank's decision marked \"a major new round in the currency war\". He suggested the next country to act could be Japan, which is worried about the impact of a rising yen on its export-dominated economy. \"Could not Japan also set a minimum US dollar exchange rate as a means to battle deflation?\" Turner said.In a statement, the Swiss National Bank said: \"The current massive overvaluation of the Swiss franc poses an acute threat to the Swiss economy and carries the risk of a deflationary development.\"It added that it was prepared to intervene in \"unlimited quantities\" to enforce the 1.20 limit and was \"aiming for a substantial and sustained weakening of the Swiss franc\".In recent months, currency investors have been deserting the euro in favour of the franc amid growing anxiety about the ability of Europe's leaders to tackle the sovereign debt crisis that has resulted in bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal and forced the European Central Bank to act to prevent Italian and Spanish borrowing costs spiralling.A general strike in Italy added to the jittery mood, with markets also awaiting the decision by Germany's constitutional court on the legality of the bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal.The Norwegian krone hit an eight-year high as investors sought a new currency refuge after Switzerland's move to curb the strength of the franc, posing a fresh dilemma for a Norwegian central bank that would like to raise rates to curb inflationary pressure.Gold was trading at just under $1,900 an ounce amid predictions that it could test the $2,000 an ounce level over the coming weeks.Speaking to the Treasury select committee, Jim O'Neill, former chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said the central problem facing the eurozone was that too many countries had been allowed to join the single currency. He described the situation as \"fragile and tricky\", and said that the only way the euro could survive was with political unity and a single central eurozone treasury.European banks were the worst performers on a day that saw the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index of top shares close at its lowest level since July 2009.The price of credit default swaps \u2013 insurance against a borrower being unable to repay \u2013 on the UK's bailed-out banks, RBS and Lloyds Banking Group, hit new highs. It now costs about \u00a3350,000 to insure \u00a310m of the banks' bonds against default for a year. Investors are worried about a range of problems facing the banks, from European debt exposure to problems raising funds and potentially huge bills looming from US lawsuits.Shares in London posted modest gains after two days of heavy falls, with the FTSE 100 index closing 54 points higher at 5157. However, Wall Street's Dow Jones industrial average closed down 101 points, its third day of triple digit losses, despite a better-than-expected performance by the US service sector in August.Financial markets believe the slowdown in global growth will prompt the US Federal Reserve and the Bank of England to pump more money into their economies, and may persuade the European Central Bank to reverse the two interest rate increases announced this year.Amid evidence that the global private sector is growing at its weakest pace since August 2009, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is likely to cut its estimates for global growth this year and next when it publishes updated forecasts in Paris.JP Morgan's global all-industry output index, which is based on the results of purchasing manager surveys of thousands of companies worldwide, edged down from 52.5 in July to 51.5 last month.\"Growth of global output eased to its weakest in the recovery to date,\" said David Hensley of JP Morgan. \"Although manufacturing was the main drag, the service sector fared only moderately better.\"", "tags": ["Swiss franc", "Euro", "Currencies", "Stock markets", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "European shares plunge as Switzerland caps soaring value of franc"},{"date": "2011-07-22T04:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the entrance to Z\u00fcrich's largest cemetery is a large white sign detailing all the things that are not allowed \u2013 No Jogging, No Cycling, No Dogs, No Littering, No Beachwear \u2026 Sorry, no beachwear? This is not Barcelona or Brighton. Switzerland is a landlocked country in the middle of Europe; Z\u00fcrich is 200 miles from the sea. It seems highly unlikely that any locals will be wandering round in swimwear, so what's going on? Everything becomes clear once you go down to the nearby lakeshore and see the bodies bobbing around in the water. Welcome to a beach holiday, Swiss style!With 6% of Europe's fresh water flowing through its rivers and lakes, Switzerland has hundreds of natural pools just waiting to be dipped in. And this really is fresh water. Temperatures fluctuate with the weather but are usually at an acceptably refreshing level; low 20s celsius is the summer norm. And this isn't just a rural pursuit \u2013 swimming in Switzerland is very much an urban pastime, too. There's nothing more Swiss than jumping in the water after a hot day at the office, so here's a guide to the best swimming spots in Z\u00fcrich, Bern and Geneva.The country's largest city has its own lake, but don't just jump in wherever you want (there are rules against that of course \u2013 this is Switzerland). Instead, go to a lakeside lido, or Strandbad; you have to pay (typically 7 Swiss francs, about \u00a35.50, for an adult) but it's worth it. There are a few to choose from, but I liked Tiefenbrunnen, the biggest and certainly most popular one. It's huge, with sunbathing lawns, plenty of shade, mountain views and of course acres of lake to splash about. For non-swimmers there's a circular boardwalk built out over the water, with a shallow pool in the middle; the more adventurous can swim out to wooden islands anchored offshore. It's a good way to escape the crowds.After bathing and sunbathing all afternoon, you can pop to the beach next door and relax with cocktails by the water until midnight. Sounds more like Ibiza than Z\u00fcrich, doesn't it? But it's not a real beach, it's a summer-only bar called City Beach, complete with palms, decking, sand and a pool right on the lakefront, and right beside Tiefenbrunnen. On hot summer nights, it's the coolest place to be.My tip Unless you like sunning yourself in your birthday suit, avoid the area labelled FKK. Most Swiss lidos have a nudist section, and Tiefenbrunnen is no exception.Swimming in the river is something Londoners can only dream of, but for the Bernese it's an annual must. The River Aare, has crystal-clear water coming straight down from the Alps, making it cooler than a lake, but infinitely more fun. That's because it's not only about cooling off, it's about going with the flow. The river can be fast, so a few strokes every so often are enough for you to be carried along on this liquid travelator. Not only that but you get a great view of the city, set up on a cliff above the river; it's a sightseeing tour like no other.The best starting point is Marzili, a free riverside lido at the base of parliament hill. I left my things in a pile on the lawns, walked upstream along the shady riverside path for 10-15 minutes, then took the plunge and launched myself in. Getting in is easy, getting out a little trickier. You must swim across the flow towards the bank, grab on to a pole, swing round and up on to the nearest step. Just don't ignore the Last Exit signs. They may seem weird but they're essential: round the bend there's a weir and you really don't want to swim into that.My tip Bring a small inflatable, like a beach ball or air cushion, to hold on to \u2013 then you barely need swim at all, just lie back and float downstream.A swim with a view of a 140m high fountain spurting skywards and grand hotels along the waterfront. I could only be in Geneva, the city that gives urban swimming a bit of chic. Not because it sits at the tip of one of Europe's largest lakes, but thanks to the Bains des P\u00e2quis, the top spot for swimming in Geneva. It isn't that big or that posh, but it's the place to be in summer. It's all about the view, both of the city and your fellow swimmers \u2013 this is prime see-and-be-seen territory for everyone, and entry is only about \u00a31.50. This is city swimming with style.The Bains des P\u00e2quis have been an institution since 1872, though the current art deco incarnation dates from the 30s. What makes them unusual is their location, built on a long breakwater stretching out into the lake. That gives them enough space for some purpose-built pools, sunbathing decks, a cafe and a small beach for lake swimming. When it gets very busy, people overflow on to the rocks of the breakwater, basking in the sun like a herd of sea lions.My tip Go the whole hog and make a day of it. Have a steam in the on-site hammam (\u00a38) followed by a soothing massage (about \u00a347 for 50 minutes).The swiss swimming season runs from May to September, outside then the lidos are closed but you are still allowed to swim where there is open access. For full details on where to swim, see the Swiss Tourist Board's special website (sospo.myswitzerland.com), or why not download its free Swimming Weather app? It even tells you the current water temperatures at each site. I love it!\u2022 Diccon Bewes lives in Bern and is the author of Swiss Watching: Inside Europe's Landlocked Island (Nicholas Brealey, \u00a312.99, dicconbewes.com)", "tags": ["Swimming holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Zurich holidays", "City breaks"], "title": "Urban swimming in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-08-03T08:28:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss authorities have moved to counteract what the national bank called the \"massive overvaluation\" of the Swiss franc.The measures \u2013 a huge increase in the supply of Swiss francs and a pledge that interest rates will be pegged at or near 0% \u2013 came as investors flocked to buy francs as a safe haven from the turmoil affecting the eurozone and the world economy.\"The Swiss National Bank (SNB) considers the Swiss franc to be massively overvalued at present. This current strength of the Swiss franc is threatening the development of the economy and increasing the downside risks to price stability in Switzerland. The SNB will not tolerate a continual tightening of monetary conditions and is therefore taking measures against the strong Swiss franc,\" the SNB said in a statement.City analysts welcomed the move, which came as world stock markets fell sharply again. They questioned, though, whether the SNB could successfully repel the rush for safety.\"Today's actions will weaken the fundamental attractiveness of the Swiss franc,\" said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabonank. \"The SNB will be well aware that it is swimming against the tide and that without a solution to the eurozone sovereign debt crisis it will be difficult to convince investors to dump the Swiss franc.\"The SNB has lowered its target range for the London interbank offered rate \u2013 the official Swiss interest rate \u2013 to 0%-0.25% from 0%-0.75%.It will also increase the Swiss money supply, increasing banks' \"sight deposits\", cash which they can instantly draw on, at the SNB from SFr30bn (\u00a324bn) to SFr80bn.The intervention pushed the Swiss currency lower on the foreign exchange markets, losing about 2% against the euro to SFr1.105. It had previously hit a new high of SFr1.0793 on Wednesday, and appeared to be on track to hit parity with the euro.The high currency has made life difficult for Swiss exporters, as their goods become relatively more expensive.Janwillem Acket of Julius Baer told Reuters: \"[The move] makes a lot of sense but [it] remains to be seen how successful it will be as long as the market sees Switzerland as so much better off than the rest of the world.\"", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "Market turmoil", "Swiss franc"], "title": "Switzerland moves to contain franc appreciation"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:34:44Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tax authorities would not have been able to break Swiss banking secrecy for 10 years or more, a senior civil servant has said, in a defence of HMRC's controversial tax deal under which tax will be paid on cash in Swiss bank accounts, but under condition of anonymity. Critics say eventually international pressure would have forced Switzerland to remove the veil of anonymity from account holders there. But HMRC permanent secretary for tax Dave Hartnett told the Treasury sub-committee on Monday that in the next 10 years breaking down Swiss banking secrecy certainly \"seemed very unlikely\".Tax campaigner Richard Murphy has argued that the deal has delayed international efforts to break down Swiss secrecy. \"I am not saying Swiss bank secrecy was going to break down tomorrow. But the US is making big progress, the direction of travel is substantially in the direction of openness. This deal has guaranteed that anonymity is reinforced,\" he said on Monday.The Swiss deal has been heavily criticised by some, who suggest that in allowing some tax evaders to pay a one-off repayment of tax due, as well as ongoing tax on interest earned in Switzerland, it has let evaders off much bigger bills. The cash held in Swiss accounts may not have been taxed when it was earned, some suggest, and normally tax evaders face big penalties on top of having to pay the tax due.The tax rates applied to Swiss accounts are also fractionally lower than the equivalent rates in the UK. Hartnett told MPs on Monday that the rates were lower because the tax would be taken earlier in the year, and therefore reflected timing differences.HMRC, and Hartnett in particular, have been beset with criticism in recent years. The UK Uncut tax protest movement has campaigned against what it argues were cosy deals done by Hartnett and HMRC with taxpayers like Vodafone and Goldman Sachs to write off significant tax liabilities relating to tax avoidance set-ups.A steady feed of allegations apparently leaked from within HMRC has appeared in Private Eye in relation to both the Vodafone and Goldman's arrangements.Hartnett told MPs he could not discuss either deal on Monday, but did dispute suggestions that he had received corporate hospitality from Goldman Sachs, compromising his position: \"I have been to a supper with Goldman Sachs. I went with a managing director from the Treasury to talk to 20 chief financial officers about developments in tax policy. I knew nothing of Goldman's tax affairs when I was at that supper. I don't deal with Goldman's tax affairs.\"", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK Uncut", "Vodafone"], "title": "HM Revenue & Customs defends tax deal with Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-09-15T13:24:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost exactly two years after his arrest in Zurich at the request of the US Justice Department, Roman Polanski is due back in the Swiss city on 27 September to receive the lifetime achievement award he was unable to accept in 2009 after the intervention of the authorities, according to a report by Variety.Polanski, 78, is still a wanted man in the US, after pleading guilty in 1977 to a charge of unlawful sex with a minor and then fleeing the country before sentencing. He was arrested at Zurich airport by Swiss police as he was on his way to the Zurich film festival to be presented with the award. Polanski was subsequently put under house arrest in Switzerland while the case was argued, and was released by the Swiss authorties in July 2010 after his extradition was refused.The Zurich film festival issued a statement from its directors Karl Spoerri and Nadja Schildknecht: \"We are especially proud to welcome Roman Polanski this year to receive his award. We have always been tremendous admirers of his work, and we are delighted that we will soon be able to express this to him in person.\"Since his detention, Polanski has completed his new film, Carnage, which premiered to admiring reviews at the Venice film festival a fortnight ago.", "tags": ["Film", "Roman Polanski", "Awards and prizes", "Culture"], "title": "Roman Polanski to return to Switzerland to receive award"},{"date": "2011-09-06T21:31:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "European shares dropped to their lowest level in more than two years after the single currency's debt crisis forced Switzerland to take emergency action to cap the franc's rise on the world's foreign exchanges.Prompting fears of an outbreak of currency wars, the Swiss central bank said it would do whatever was necessary to halt the hot money flows that threaten one of the world's richest countries with recession and deflation.The move to set a limit of 1.20 Swiss francs to the euro came at the start of another turbulent day that saw shares under pressure, US and German bond prices rise and the Norwegian krone become the safe haven of choice for currency investors burnt by the Swiss decision to reverse the appreciation of the franc, which lost a record 9% of its value within 15 minutes of the announcement.Jeremy Cook, chief economist at currency brokers World First, said: \"That was the single largest foreign exchange move I have ever seen. This is intervention on a grand scale.\"This turns up the heat on the eurozone and other economies who have benefited from weakening their currency in the past couple of years.\"Chris Turner, head of foreign exchange strategy at ING, said the Swiss central bank's decision marked \"a major new round in the currency war\". He suggested the next country to act could be Japan, which is worried about the impact of a rising yen on its export-dominated economy. \"Could not Japan also set a minimum US dollar exchange rate as a means to battle deflation?\" Turner said.In a statement, the Swiss National Bank said: \"The current massive overvaluation of the Swiss franc poses an acute threat to the Swiss economy and carries the risk of a deflationary development.\"It added that it was prepared to intervene in \"unlimited quantities\" to enforce the 1.20 limit and was \"aiming for a substantial and sustained weakening of the Swiss franc\".In recent months, currency investors have been deserting the euro in favour of the franc amid growing anxiety about the ability of Europe's leaders to tackle the sovereign debt crisis that has resulted in bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal and forced the European Central Bank to act to prevent Italian and Spanish borrowing costs spiralling.A general strike in Italy added to the jittery mood, with markets also awaiting the decision by Germany's constitutional court on the legality of the bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal.The Norwegian krone hit an eight-year high as investors sought a new currency refuge after Switzerland's move to curb the strength of the franc, posing a fresh dilemma for a Norwegian central bank that would like to raise rates to curb inflationary pressure.Gold was trading at just under $1,900 an ounce amid predictions that it could test the $2,000 an ounce level over the coming weeks.Speaking to the Treasury select committee, Jim O'Neill, former chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said the central problem facing the eurozone was that too many countries had been allowed to join the single currency. He described the situation as \"fragile and tricky\", and said that the only way the euro could survive was with political unity and a single central eurozone treasury.European banks were the worst performers on a day that saw the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index of top shares close at its lowest level since July 2009.The price of credit default swaps \u2013 insurance against a borrower being unable to repay \u2013 on the UK's bailed-out banks, RBS and Lloyds Banking Group, hit new highs. It now costs about \u00a3350,000 to insure \u00a310m of the banks' bonds against default for a year. Investors are worried about a range of problems facing the banks, from European debt exposure to problems raising funds and potentially huge bills looming from US lawsuits.Shares in London posted modest gains after two days of heavy falls, with the FTSE 100 index closing 54 points higher at 5157. However, Wall Street's Dow Jones industrial average closed down 101 points, its third day of triple digit losses, despite a better-than-expected performance by the US service sector in August.Financial markets believe the slowdown in global growth will prompt the US Federal Reserve and the Bank of England to pump more money into their economies, and may persuade the European Central Bank to reverse the two interest rate increases announced this year.Amid evidence that the global private sector is growing at its weakest pace since August 2009, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is likely to cut its estimates for global growth this year and next when it publishes updated forecasts in Paris.JP Morgan's global all-industry output index, which is based on the results of purchasing manager surveys of thousands of companies worldwide, edged down from 52.5 in July to 51.5 last month.\"Growth of global output eased to its weakest in the recovery to date,\" said David Hensley of JP Morgan. \"Although manufacturing was the main drag, the service sector fared only moderately better.\"", "tags": ["Swiss franc", "Euro", "Currencies", "Stock markets", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "European shares plunge as Switzerland caps soaring value of franc"},{"date": "2011-08-24T19:31:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Treasury has struck a deal with the Swiss government to repatriate unpaid British taxes from private bank accounts and end the exploitation of the country's secretive banking system.Switzerland has agreed to make a one-off deduction from all existing accounts held by people who are liable for British taxes but have not paid them. The tax grab could raise as much as \u00a35bn for the Treasury and will be applied in 2013.The Swiss are giving Britain 500m Swiss francs (\u00a3384m) up front as a gesture of goodwill.From 2013 onwards, the Swiss government and banks have jointly agreed to apply a new \"withholding\" tax on behalf of the British government of 48% on investments and 27% on gains where the records show the person is liable for unpaid British taxes, effectively ending the country's reputation as a tax haven.The deal will mean that the Swiss government and banks will identify accounts held by British taxpayers acting on information from HMRC, withhold the funds and return them to the UK. HMRC will never see the details of the accounts, but if people want to challenge a payment they will be expected to disclose them to UK tax inspectors.George Osborne said that the days when people could \"stash the profits of tax evasion\" in Switzerland were over. However, campaigners against tax evasion said that it would mean that people would be offered discounted rates of tax in Switzerland compared with the UK; that the Swiss had retained most of the secrecy in the system which they will operate and that it could undermine a more ambitious EU-wide deal that is still being negotiated.Richard Murphy, director of Tax Research UK, said: \"It's an appalling deal for the UK, an appalling deal for Europe. The one-off tax of 34% is much lower than they would have paid in the UK and in fines for avoiding it. This government is deliberately letting these people off. All those people who have been honest and paid their taxes are now saying 'why did I bother?'\"The Swiss will not pass over the details from the British accounts. The UK will never know who these people are unless they decide to disclose their details and challenge the payments. We have now outsourced British tax justice to the Swiss, who to date have done their utmost to avoid this. We've also given them a competitive advantage over British banks with lower tax rates.\"John Christensen, director of Tax Justice, said: \"This sets back European-wide attempts to create a proper framework for information exchange and Britain and Germany have done disservice to the rest of the world because this maintains Swiss secrecy. This is a shabby deal.\"The Treasury said that the rates of the withholding tax had been set slightly lower than the normal British ones to account for the fact that deductions will take effect sooner than would happen under the British tax system and that the one-off tax rate accounted for the fact that the taxpayer wouldn't have to fund lengthy investigations to recoup the money.Treasury insiders acknowledged that the negotiations with the Swiss system had been \"painstaking\" and, at times, \"delicate\". It follows shortly after a similar deal was struck between the Swiss and the Germans, which is almost identical apart from the upfront payment, which was nearly four times the amount.The deal will also apply to people who are non-domiciled for tax purposes - they will be approached by the Swiss and given the option of either paying the one-off tax on their whole account unless they can prove that some or all of the money was from elsewhere in the world.Osborne said: \"Tax evasion is wrong at the best of times, but in economic circumstances such as the present ones, it means that hard-pressed taxpayers are forced to pay even more. That is why this coalition government made it a priority to go after those who don't pay their fair share. We will be as tough on the richest who evade tax as on those who cheat on benefits. The days when it was easy to stash the profits of tax evasion in Switzerland are over.\"The Swiss Bankers Association welcomed the fact that the deal maintained account holders \"financial privacy\" and stressed that while the maximum rate would be 34%, the \"effective\" rate for most clients would be closer to between 20% and 25% of total assets. Despite suggestions that the move could bring in \u00a35bn for the Treasury, the Swiss banks suggested it could also cost them hundreds of millions of pounds if people withdrew savings.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "George Osborne", "Banking"], "title": "Treasury strikes tax evasion deal with Switzerland to recoup unpaid cash"},{"date": "2011-07-22T04:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the entrance to Z\u00fcrich's largest cemetery is a large white sign detailing all the things that are not allowed \u2013 No Jogging, No Cycling, No Dogs, No Littering, No Beachwear \u2026 Sorry, no beachwear? This is not Barcelona or Brighton. Switzerland is a landlocked country in the middle of Europe; Z\u00fcrich is 200 miles from the sea. It seems highly unlikely that any locals will be wandering round in swimwear, so what's going on? Everything becomes clear once you go down to the nearby lakeshore and see the bodies bobbing around in the water. Welcome to a beach holiday, Swiss style!With 6% of Europe's fresh water flowing through its rivers and lakes, Switzerland has hundreds of natural pools just waiting to be dipped in. And this really is fresh water. Temperatures fluctuate with the weather but are usually at an acceptably refreshing level; low 20s celsius is the summer norm. And this isn't just a rural pursuit \u2013 swimming in Switzerland is very much an urban pastime, too. There's nothing more Swiss than jumping in the water after a hot day at the office, so here's a guide to the best swimming spots in Z\u00fcrich, Bern and Geneva.The country's largest city has its own lake, but don't just jump in wherever you want (there are rules against that of course \u2013 this is Switzerland). Instead, go to a lakeside lido, or Strandbad; you have to pay (typically 7 Swiss francs, about \u00a35.50, for an adult) but it's worth it. There are a few to choose from, but I liked Tiefenbrunnen, the biggest and certainly most popular one. It's huge, with sunbathing lawns, plenty of shade, mountain views and of course acres of lake to splash about. For non-swimmers there's a circular boardwalk built out over the water, with a shallow pool in the middle; the more adventurous can swim out to wooden islands anchored offshore. It's a good way to escape the crowds.After bathing and sunbathing all afternoon, you can pop to the beach next door and relax with cocktails by the water until midnight. Sounds more like Ibiza than Z\u00fcrich, doesn't it? But it's not a real beach, it's a summer-only bar called City Beach, complete with palms, decking, sand and a pool right on the lakefront, and right beside Tiefenbrunnen. On hot summer nights, it's the coolest place to be.My tip Unless you like sunning yourself in your birthday suit, avoid the area labelled FKK. Most Swiss lidos have a nudist section, and Tiefenbrunnen is no exception.Swimming in the river is something Londoners can only dream of, but for the Bernese it's an annual must. The River Aare, has crystal-clear water coming straight down from the Alps, making it cooler than a lake, but infinitely more fun. That's because it's not only about cooling off, it's about going with the flow. The river can be fast, so a few strokes every so often are enough for you to be carried along on this liquid travelator. Not only that but you get a great view of the city, set up on a cliff above the river; it's a sightseeing tour like no other.The best starting point is Marzili, a free riverside lido at the base of parliament hill. I left my things in a pile on the lawns, walked upstream along the shady riverside path for 10-15 minutes, then took the plunge and launched myself in. Getting in is easy, getting out a little trickier. You must swim across the flow towards the bank, grab on to a pole, swing round and up on to the nearest step. Just don't ignore the Last Exit signs. They may seem weird but they're essential: round the bend there's a weir and you really don't want to swim into that.My tip Bring a small inflatable, like a beach ball or air cushion, to hold on to \u2013 then you barely need swim at all, just lie back and float downstream.A swim with a view of a 140m high fountain spurting skywards and grand hotels along the waterfront. I could only be in Geneva, the city that gives urban swimming a bit of chic. Not because it sits at the tip of one of Europe's largest lakes, but thanks to the Bains des P\u00e2quis, the top spot for swimming in Geneva. It isn't that big or that posh, but it's the place to be in summer. It's all about the view, both of the city and your fellow swimmers \u2013 this is prime see-and-be-seen territory for everyone, and entry is only about \u00a31.50. This is city swimming with style.The Bains des P\u00e2quis have been an institution since 1872, though the current art deco incarnation dates from the 30s. What makes them unusual is their location, built on a long breakwater stretching out into the lake. That gives them enough space for some purpose-built pools, sunbathing decks, a cafe and a small beach for lake swimming. When it gets very busy, people overflow on to the rocks of the breakwater, basking in the sun like a herd of sea lions.My tip Go the whole hog and make a day of it. Have a steam in the on-site hammam (\u00a38) followed by a soothing massage (about \u00a347 for 50 minutes).The swiss swimming season runs from May to September, outside then the lidos are closed but you are still allowed to swim where there is open access. For full details on where to swim, see the Swiss Tourist Board's special website (sospo.myswitzerland.com), or why not download its free Swimming Weather app? It even tells you the current water temperatures at each site. I love it!\u2022 Diccon Bewes lives in Bern and is the author of Swiss Watching: Inside Europe's Landlocked Island (Nicholas Brealey, \u00a312.99, dicconbewes.com)", "tags": ["Swimming holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Zurich holidays", "City breaks"], "title": "Urban swimming in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-08-03T08:28:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss authorities have moved to counteract what the national bank called the \"massive overvaluation\" of the Swiss franc.The measures \u2013 a huge increase in the supply of Swiss francs and a pledge that interest rates will be pegged at or near 0% \u2013 came as investors flocked to buy francs as a safe haven from the turmoil affecting the eurozone and the world economy.\"The Swiss National Bank (SNB) considers the Swiss franc to be massively overvalued at present. This current strength of the Swiss franc is threatening the development of the economy and increasing the downside risks to price stability in Switzerland. The SNB will not tolerate a continual tightening of monetary conditions and is therefore taking measures against the strong Swiss franc,\" the SNB said in a statement.City analysts welcomed the move, which came as world stock markets fell sharply again. They questioned, though, whether the SNB could successfully repel the rush for safety.\"Today's actions will weaken the fundamental attractiveness of the Swiss franc,\" said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabonank. \"The SNB will be well aware that it is swimming against the tide and that without a solution to the eurozone sovereign debt crisis it will be difficult to convince investors to dump the Swiss franc.\"The SNB has lowered its target range for the London interbank offered rate \u2013 the official Swiss interest rate \u2013 to 0%-0.25% from 0%-0.75%.It will also increase the Swiss money supply, increasing banks' \"sight deposits\", cash which they can instantly draw on, at the SNB from SFr30bn (\u00a324bn) to SFr80bn.The intervention pushed the Swiss currency lower on the foreign exchange markets, losing about 2% against the euro to SFr1.105. It had previously hit a new high of SFr1.0793 on Wednesday, and appeared to be on track to hit parity with the euro.The high currency has made life difficult for Swiss exporters, as their goods become relatively more expensive.Janwillem Acket of Julius Baer told Reuters: \"[The move] makes a lot of sense but [it] remains to be seen how successful it will be as long as the market sees Switzerland as so much better off than the rest of the world.\"", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "Market turmoil", "Swiss franc"], "title": "Switzerland moves to contain franc appreciation"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:34:44Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tax authorities would not have been able to break Swiss banking secrecy for 10 years or more, a senior civil servant has said, in a defence of HMRC's controversial tax deal under which tax will be paid on cash in Swiss bank accounts, but under condition of anonymity. Critics say eventually international pressure would have forced Switzerland to remove the veil of anonymity from account holders there. But HMRC permanent secretary for tax Dave Hartnett told the Treasury sub-committee on Monday that in the next 10 years breaking down Swiss banking secrecy certainly \"seemed very unlikely\".Tax campaigner Richard Murphy has argued that the deal has delayed international efforts to break down Swiss secrecy. \"I am not saying Swiss bank secrecy was going to break down tomorrow. But the US is making big progress, the direction of travel is substantially in the direction of openness. This deal has guaranteed that anonymity is reinforced,\" he said on Monday.The Swiss deal has been heavily criticised by some, who suggest that in allowing some tax evaders to pay a one-off repayment of tax due, as well as ongoing tax on interest earned in Switzerland, it has let evaders off much bigger bills. The cash held in Swiss accounts may not have been taxed when it was earned, some suggest, and normally tax evaders face big penalties on top of having to pay the tax due.The tax rates applied to Swiss accounts are also fractionally lower than the equivalent rates in the UK. Hartnett told MPs on Monday that the rates were lower because the tax would be taken earlier in the year, and therefore reflected timing differences.HMRC, and Hartnett in particular, have been beset with criticism in recent years. The UK Uncut tax protest movement has campaigned against what it argues were cosy deals done by Hartnett and HMRC with taxpayers like Vodafone and Goldman Sachs to write off significant tax liabilities relating to tax avoidance set-ups.A steady feed of allegations apparently leaked from within HMRC has appeared in Private Eye in relation to both the Vodafone and Goldman's arrangements.Hartnett told MPs he could not discuss either deal on Monday, but did dispute suggestions that he had received corporate hospitality from Goldman Sachs, compromising his position: \"I have been to a supper with Goldman Sachs. I went with a managing director from the Treasury to talk to 20 chief financial officers about developments in tax policy. I knew nothing of Goldman's tax affairs when I was at that supper. I don't deal with Goldman's tax affairs.\"", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK Uncut", "Vodafone"], "title": "HM Revenue & Customs defends tax deal with Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-09-15T13:24:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost exactly two years after his arrest in Zurich at the request of the US Justice Department, Roman Polanski is due back in the Swiss city on 27 September to receive the lifetime achievement award he was unable to accept in 2009 after the intervention of the authorities, according to a report by Variety.Polanski, 78, is still a wanted man in the US, after pleading guilty in 1977 to a charge of unlawful sex with a minor and then fleeing the country before sentencing. He was arrested at Zurich airport by Swiss police as he was on his way to the Zurich film festival to be presented with the award. Polanski was subsequently put under house arrest in Switzerland while the case was argued, and was released by the Swiss authorties in July 2010 after his extradition was refused.The Zurich film festival issued a statement from its directors Karl Spoerri and Nadja Schildknecht: \"We are especially proud to welcome Roman Polanski this year to receive his award. We have always been tremendous admirers of his work, and we are delighted that we will soon be able to express this to him in person.\"Since his detention, Polanski has completed his new film, Carnage, which premiered to admiring reviews at the Venice film festival a fortnight ago.", "tags": ["Film", "Roman Polanski", "Awards and prizes", "Culture"], "title": "Roman Polanski to return to Switzerland to receive award"},{"date": "2011-09-06T21:31:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "European shares dropped to their lowest level in more than two years after the single currency's debt crisis forced Switzerland to take emergency action to cap the franc's rise on the world's foreign exchanges.Prompting fears of an outbreak of currency wars, the Swiss central bank said it would do whatever was necessary to halt the hot money flows that threaten one of the world's richest countries with recession and deflation.The move to set a limit of 1.20 Swiss francs to the euro came at the start of another turbulent day that saw shares under pressure, US and German bond prices rise and the Norwegian krone become the safe haven of choice for currency investors burnt by the Swiss decision to reverse the appreciation of the franc, which lost a record 9% of its value within 15 minutes of the announcement.Jeremy Cook, chief economist at currency brokers World First, said: \"That was the single largest foreign exchange move I have ever seen. This is intervention on a grand scale.\"This turns up the heat on the eurozone and other economies who have benefited from weakening their currency in the past couple of years.\"Chris Turner, head of foreign exchange strategy at ING, said the Swiss central bank's decision marked \"a major new round in the currency war\". He suggested the next country to act could be Japan, which is worried about the impact of a rising yen on its export-dominated economy. \"Could not Japan also set a minimum US dollar exchange rate as a means to battle deflation?\" Turner said.In a statement, the Swiss National Bank said: \"The current massive overvaluation of the Swiss franc poses an acute threat to the Swiss economy and carries the risk of a deflationary development.\"It added that it was prepared to intervene in \"unlimited quantities\" to enforce the 1.20 limit and was \"aiming for a substantial and sustained weakening of the Swiss franc\".In recent months, currency investors have been deserting the euro in favour of the franc amid growing anxiety about the ability of Europe's leaders to tackle the sovereign debt crisis that has resulted in bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal and forced the European Central Bank to act to prevent Italian and Spanish borrowing costs spiralling.A general strike in Italy added to the jittery mood, with markets also awaiting the decision by Germany's constitutional court on the legality of the bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal.The Norwegian krone hit an eight-year high as investors sought a new currency refuge after Switzerland's move to curb the strength of the franc, posing a fresh dilemma for a Norwegian central bank that would like to raise rates to curb inflationary pressure.Gold was trading at just under $1,900 an ounce amid predictions that it could test the $2,000 an ounce level over the coming weeks.Speaking to the Treasury select committee, Jim O'Neill, former chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said the central problem facing the eurozone was that too many countries had been allowed to join the single currency. He described the situation as \"fragile and tricky\", and said that the only way the euro could survive was with political unity and a single central eurozone treasury.European banks were the worst performers on a day that saw the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index of top shares close at its lowest level since July 2009.The price of credit default swaps \u2013 insurance against a borrower being unable to repay \u2013 on the UK's bailed-out banks, RBS and Lloyds Banking Group, hit new highs. It now costs about \u00a3350,000 to insure \u00a310m of the banks' bonds against default for a year. Investors are worried about a range of problems facing the banks, from European debt exposure to problems raising funds and potentially huge bills looming from US lawsuits.Shares in London posted modest gains after two days of heavy falls, with the FTSE 100 index closing 54 points higher at 5157. However, Wall Street's Dow Jones industrial average closed down 101 points, its third day of triple digit losses, despite a better-than-expected performance by the US service sector in August.Financial markets believe the slowdown in global growth will prompt the US Federal Reserve and the Bank of England to pump more money into their economies, and may persuade the European Central Bank to reverse the two interest rate increases announced this year.Amid evidence that the global private sector is growing at its weakest pace since August 2009, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is likely to cut its estimates for global growth this year and next when it publishes updated forecasts in Paris.JP Morgan's global all-industry output index, which is based on the results of purchasing manager surveys of thousands of companies worldwide, edged down from 52.5 in July to 51.5 last month.\"Growth of global output eased to its weakest in the recovery to date,\" said David Hensley of JP Morgan. \"Although manufacturing was the main drag, the service sector fared only moderately better.\"", "tags": ["Swiss franc", "Euro", "Currencies", "Stock markets", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "European shares plunge as Switzerland caps soaring value of franc"},{"date": "2011-08-24T19:31:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Treasury has struck a deal with the Swiss government to repatriate unpaid British taxes from private bank accounts and end the exploitation of the country's secretive banking system.Switzerland has agreed to make a one-off deduction from all existing accounts held by people who are liable for British taxes but have not paid them. The tax grab could raise as much as \u00a35bn for the Treasury and will be applied in 2013.The Swiss are giving Britain 500m Swiss francs (\u00a3384m) up front as a gesture of goodwill.From 2013 onwards, the Swiss government and banks have jointly agreed to apply a new \"withholding\" tax on behalf of the British government of 48% on investments and 27% on gains where the records show the person is liable for unpaid British taxes, effectively ending the country's reputation as a tax haven.The deal will mean that the Swiss government and banks will identify accounts held by British taxpayers acting on information from HMRC, withhold the funds and return them to the UK. HMRC will never see the details of the accounts, but if people want to challenge a payment they will be expected to disclose them to UK tax inspectors.George Osborne said that the days when people could \"stash the profits of tax evasion\" in Switzerland were over. However, campaigners against tax evasion said that it would mean that people would be offered discounted rates of tax in Switzerland compared with the UK; that the Swiss had retained most of the secrecy in the system which they will operate and that it could undermine a more ambitious EU-wide deal that is still being negotiated.Richard Murphy, director of Tax Research UK, said: \"It's an appalling deal for the UK, an appalling deal for Europe. The one-off tax of 34% is much lower than they would have paid in the UK and in fines for avoiding it. This government is deliberately letting these people off. All those people who have been honest and paid their taxes are now saying 'why did I bother?'\"The Swiss will not pass over the details from the British accounts. The UK will never know who these people are unless they decide to disclose their details and challenge the payments. We have now outsourced British tax justice to the Swiss, who to date have done their utmost to avoid this. We've also given them a competitive advantage over British banks with lower tax rates.\"John Christensen, director of Tax Justice, said: \"This sets back European-wide attempts to create a proper framework for information exchange and Britain and Germany have done disservice to the rest of the world because this maintains Swiss secrecy. This is a shabby deal.\"The Treasury said that the rates of the withholding tax had been set slightly lower than the normal British ones to account for the fact that deductions will take effect sooner than would happen under the British tax system and that the one-off tax rate accounted for the fact that the taxpayer wouldn't have to fund lengthy investigations to recoup the money.Treasury insiders acknowledged that the negotiations with the Swiss system had been \"painstaking\" and, at times, \"delicate\". It follows shortly after a similar deal was struck between the Swiss and the Germans, which is almost identical apart from the upfront payment, which was nearly four times the amount.The deal will also apply to people who are non-domiciled for tax purposes - they will be approached by the Swiss and given the option of either paying the one-off tax on their whole account unless they can prove that some or all of the money was from elsewhere in the world.Osborne said: \"Tax evasion is wrong at the best of times, but in economic circumstances such as the present ones, it means that hard-pressed taxpayers are forced to pay even more. That is why this coalition government made it a priority to go after those who don't pay their fair share. We will be as tough on the richest who evade tax as on those who cheat on benefits. The days when it was easy to stash the profits of tax evasion in Switzerland are over.\"The Swiss Bankers Association welcomed the fact that the deal maintained account holders \"financial privacy\" and stressed that while the maximum rate would be 34%, the \"effective\" rate for most clients would be closer to between 20% and 25% of total assets. Despite suggestions that the move could bring in \u00a35bn for the Treasury, the Swiss banks suggested it could also cost them hundreds of millions of pounds if people withdrew savings.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "George Osborne", "Banking"], "title": "Treasury strikes tax evasion deal with Switzerland to recoup unpaid cash"},{"date": "2011-08-28T19:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland could become the first country to outlaw PowerPoint presentations if a new party runs in the October parliamentary elections. Matthias Poehm, founder of the Anti-PowerPoint Party, claims that \u20ac350bn could be saved globally each year by ditching the scourge of public speaking. Poehm believes that the software takes people away from their work and teaches them little. \"There is a solution,\" he says. \"A flipchart.\"On leaving academia seven years ago I vowed that I would never use PowerPoint again. I still speak at conferences, though, and have been known to rant at organisers when asked in advance for my PPT presentation. I inform them that I will be turning up with a set of index cards on which I have jotted down key points, but will not be boring my audience to tears with fiddly slides consisting of flying text, fussy fonts or photo montages.Call me old-fashioned, but I believe in having a real discussion about ideas as opposed to force-feeding an increasingly sleepy crowd with numerous graphs and bullet points projected on to the nearest wall. Sometimes I wonder why we even bother showing up to hear a colleague elucidate on their thesis, when we are helpfully posted an advance printout of the presentation. As the speaker is building to a crucial statistic, delegates have long finished and are doing the crossword instead.If Poehm gains 10,000 signatures his party is free to run candidates in the election. So far fewer than 300 people have put their names to the cause. Unfortunately I don't think a move to Switzerland is on the cards for me.", "tags": ["Computing", "Technology", "Software", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "The political party that wants to ban PowerPoint"},{"date": "2011-07-22T04:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the entrance to Z\u00fcrich's largest cemetery is a large white sign detailing all the things that are not allowed \u2013 No Jogging, No Cycling, No Dogs, No Littering, No Beachwear \u2026 Sorry, no beachwear? This is not Barcelona or Brighton. Switzerland is a landlocked country in the middle of Europe; Z\u00fcrich is 200 miles from the sea. It seems highly unlikely that any locals will be wandering round in swimwear, so what's going on? Everything becomes clear once you go down to the nearby lakeshore and see the bodies bobbing around in the water. Welcome to a beach holiday, Swiss style!With 6% of Europe's fresh water flowing through its rivers and lakes, Switzerland has hundreds of natural pools just waiting to be dipped in. And this really is fresh water. Temperatures fluctuate with the weather but are usually at an acceptably refreshing level; low 20s celsius is the summer norm. And this isn't just a rural pursuit \u2013 swimming in Switzerland is very much an urban pastime, too. There's nothing more Swiss than jumping in the water after a hot day at the office, so here's a guide to the best swimming spots in Z\u00fcrich, Bern and Geneva.The country's largest city has its own lake, but don't just jump in wherever you want (there are rules against that of course \u2013 this is Switzerland). Instead, go to a lakeside lido, or Strandbad; you have to pay (typically 7 Swiss francs, about \u00a35.50, for an adult) but it's worth it. There are a few to choose from, but I liked Tiefenbrunnen, the biggest and certainly most popular one. It's huge, with sunbathing lawns, plenty of shade, mountain views and of course acres of lake to splash about. For non-swimmers there's a circular boardwalk built out over the water, with a shallow pool in the middle; the more adventurous can swim out to wooden islands anchored offshore. It's a good way to escape the crowds.After bathing and sunbathing all afternoon, you can pop to the beach next door and relax with cocktails by the water until midnight. Sounds more like Ibiza than Z\u00fcrich, doesn't it? But it's not a real beach, it's a summer-only bar called City Beach, complete with palms, decking, sand and a pool right on the lakefront, and right beside Tiefenbrunnen. On hot summer nights, it's the coolest place to be.My tip Unless you like sunning yourself in your birthday suit, avoid the area labelled FKK. Most Swiss lidos have a nudist section, and Tiefenbrunnen is no exception.Swimming in the river is something Londoners can only dream of, but for the Bernese it's an annual must. The River Aare, has crystal-clear water coming straight down from the Alps, making it cooler than a lake, but infinitely more fun. That's because it's not only about cooling off, it's about going with the flow. The river can be fast, so a few strokes every so often are enough for you to be carried along on this liquid travelator. Not only that but you get a great view of the city, set up on a cliff above the river; it's a sightseeing tour like no other.The best starting point is Marzili, a free riverside lido at the base of parliament hill. I left my things in a pile on the lawns, walked upstream along the shady riverside path for 10-15 minutes, then took the plunge and launched myself in. Getting in is easy, getting out a little trickier. You must swim across the flow towards the bank, grab on to a pole, swing round and up on to the nearest step. Just don't ignore the Last Exit signs. They may seem weird but they're essential: round the bend there's a weir and you really don't want to swim into that.My tip Bring a small inflatable, like a beach ball or air cushion, to hold on to \u2013 then you barely need swim at all, just lie back and float downstream.A swim with a view of a 140m high fountain spurting skywards and grand hotels along the waterfront. I could only be in Geneva, the city that gives urban swimming a bit of chic. Not because it sits at the tip of one of Europe's largest lakes, but thanks to the Bains des P\u00e2quis, the top spot for swimming in Geneva. It isn't that big or that posh, but it's the place to be in summer. It's all about the view, both of the city and your fellow swimmers \u2013 this is prime see-and-be-seen territory for everyone, and entry is only about \u00a31.50. This is city swimming with style.The Bains des P\u00e2quis have been an institution since 1872, though the current art deco incarnation dates from the 30s. What makes them unusual is their location, built on a long breakwater stretching out into the lake. That gives them enough space for some purpose-built pools, sunbathing decks, a cafe and a small beach for lake swimming. When it gets very busy, people overflow on to the rocks of the breakwater, basking in the sun like a herd of sea lions.My tip Go the whole hog and make a day of it. Have a steam in the on-site hammam (\u00a38) followed by a soothing massage (about \u00a347 for 50 minutes).The swiss swimming season runs from May to September, outside then the lidos are closed but you are still allowed to swim where there is open access. For full details on where to swim, see the Swiss Tourist Board's special website (sospo.myswitzerland.com), or why not download its free Swimming Weather app? It even tells you the current water temperatures at each site. I love it!\u2022 Diccon Bewes lives in Bern and is the author of Swiss Watching: Inside Europe's Landlocked Island (Nicholas Brealey, \u00a312.99, dicconbewes.com)", "tags": ["Swimming holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Zurich holidays", "City breaks"], "title": "Urban swimming in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-08-03T08:28:23Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss authorities have moved to counteract what the national bank called the \"massive overvaluation\" of the Swiss franc.The measures \u2013 a huge increase in the supply of Swiss francs and a pledge that interest rates will be pegged at or near 0% \u2013 came as investors flocked to buy francs as a safe haven from the turmoil affecting the eurozone and the world economy.\"The Swiss National Bank (SNB) considers the Swiss franc to be massively overvalued at present. This current strength of the Swiss franc is threatening the development of the economy and increasing the downside risks to price stability in Switzerland. The SNB will not tolerate a continual tightening of monetary conditions and is therefore taking measures against the strong Swiss franc,\" the SNB said in a statement.City analysts welcomed the move, which came as world stock markets fell sharply again. They questioned, though, whether the SNB could successfully repel the rush for safety.\"Today's actions will weaken the fundamental attractiveness of the Swiss franc,\" said Jane Foley, senior currency strategist at Rabonank. \"The SNB will be well aware that it is swimming against the tide and that without a solution to the eurozone sovereign debt crisis it will be difficult to convince investors to dump the Swiss franc.\"The SNB has lowered its target range for the London interbank offered rate \u2013 the official Swiss interest rate \u2013 to 0%-0.25% from 0%-0.75%.It will also increase the Swiss money supply, increasing banks' \"sight deposits\", cash which they can instantly draw on, at the SNB from SFr30bn (\u00a324bn) to SFr80bn.The intervention pushed the Swiss currency lower on the foreign exchange markets, losing about 2% against the euro to SFr1.105. It had previously hit a new high of SFr1.0793 on Wednesday, and appeared to be on track to hit parity with the euro.The high currency has made life difficult for Swiss exporters, as their goods become relatively more expensive.Janwillem Acket of Julius Baer told Reuters: \"[The move] makes a lot of sense but [it] remains to be seen how successful it will be as long as the market sees Switzerland as so much better off than the rest of the world.\"", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Economics", "Eurozone crisis", "Market turmoil", "Swiss franc"], "title": "Switzerland moves to contain franc appreciation"},{"date": "2011-09-12T19:34:44Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tax authorities would not have been able to break Swiss banking secrecy for 10 years or more, a senior civil servant has said, in a defence of HMRC's controversial tax deal under which tax will be paid on cash in Swiss bank accounts, but under condition of anonymity. Critics say eventually international pressure would have forced Switzerland to remove the veil of anonymity from account holders there. But HMRC permanent secretary for tax Dave Hartnett told the Treasury sub-committee on Monday that in the next 10 years breaking down Swiss banking secrecy certainly \"seemed very unlikely\".Tax campaigner Richard Murphy has argued that the deal has delayed international efforts to break down Swiss secrecy. \"I am not saying Swiss bank secrecy was going to break down tomorrow. But the US is making big progress, the direction of travel is substantially in the direction of openness. This deal has guaranteed that anonymity is reinforced,\" he said on Monday.The Swiss deal has been heavily criticised by some, who suggest that in allowing some tax evaders to pay a one-off repayment of tax due, as well as ongoing tax on interest earned in Switzerland, it has let evaders off much bigger bills. The cash held in Swiss accounts may not have been taxed when it was earned, some suggest, and normally tax evaders face big penalties on top of having to pay the tax due.The tax rates applied to Swiss accounts are also fractionally lower than the equivalent rates in the UK. Hartnett told MPs on Monday that the rates were lower because the tax would be taken earlier in the year, and therefore reflected timing differences.HMRC, and Hartnett in particular, have been beset with criticism in recent years. The UK Uncut tax protest movement has campaigned against what it argues were cosy deals done by Hartnett and HMRC with taxpayers like Vodafone and Goldman Sachs to write off significant tax liabilities relating to tax avoidance set-ups.A steady feed of allegations apparently leaked from within HMRC has appeared in Private Eye in relation to both the Vodafone and Goldman's arrangements.Hartnett told MPs he could not discuss either deal on Monday, but did dispute suggestions that he had received corporate hospitality from Goldman Sachs, compromising his position: \"I have been to a supper with Goldman Sachs. I went with a managing director from the Treasury to talk to 20 chief financial officers about developments in tax policy. I knew nothing of Goldman's tax affairs when I was at that supper. I don't deal with Goldman's tax affairs.\"", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK Uncut", "Vodafone"], "title": "HM Revenue & Customs defends tax deal with Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-09-15T13:24:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost exactly two years after his arrest in Zurich at the request of the US Justice Department, Roman Polanski is due back in the Swiss city on 27 September to receive the lifetime achievement award he was unable to accept in 2009 after the intervention of the authorities, according to a report by Variety.Polanski, 78, is still a wanted man in the US, after pleading guilty in 1977 to a charge of unlawful sex with a minor and then fleeing the country before sentencing. He was arrested at Zurich airport by Swiss police as he was on his way to the Zurich film festival to be presented with the award. Polanski was subsequently put under house arrest in Switzerland while the case was argued, and was released by the Swiss authorties in July 2010 after his extradition was refused.The Zurich film festival issued a statement from its directors Karl Spoerri and Nadja Schildknecht: \"We are especially proud to welcome Roman Polanski this year to receive his award. We have always been tremendous admirers of his work, and we are delighted that we will soon be able to express this to him in person.\"Since his detention, Polanski has completed his new film, Carnage, which premiered to admiring reviews at the Venice film festival a fortnight ago.", "tags": ["Film", "Roman Polanski", "Awards and prizes", "Culture"], "title": "Roman Polanski to return to Switzerland to receive award"},{"date": "2011-09-06T21:31:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "European shares dropped to their lowest level in more than two years after the single currency's debt crisis forced Switzerland to take emergency action to cap the franc's rise on the world's foreign exchanges.Prompting fears of an outbreak of currency wars, the Swiss central bank said it would do whatever was necessary to halt the hot money flows that threaten one of the world's richest countries with recession and deflation.The move to set a limit of 1.20 Swiss francs to the euro came at the start of another turbulent day that saw shares under pressure, US and German bond prices rise and the Norwegian krone become the safe haven of choice for currency investors burnt by the Swiss decision to reverse the appreciation of the franc, which lost a record 9% of its value within 15 minutes of the announcement.Jeremy Cook, chief economist at currency brokers World First, said: \"That was the single largest foreign exchange move I have ever seen. This is intervention on a grand scale.\"This turns up the heat on the eurozone and other economies who have benefited from weakening their currency in the past couple of years.\"Chris Turner, head of foreign exchange strategy at ING, said the Swiss central bank's decision marked \"a major new round in the currency war\". He suggested the next country to act could be Japan, which is worried about the impact of a rising yen on its export-dominated economy. \"Could not Japan also set a minimum US dollar exchange rate as a means to battle deflation?\" Turner said.In a statement, the Swiss National Bank said: \"The current massive overvaluation of the Swiss franc poses an acute threat to the Swiss economy and carries the risk of a deflationary development.\"It added that it was prepared to intervene in \"unlimited quantities\" to enforce the 1.20 limit and was \"aiming for a substantial and sustained weakening of the Swiss franc\".In recent months, currency investors have been deserting the euro in favour of the franc amid growing anxiety about the ability of Europe's leaders to tackle the sovereign debt crisis that has resulted in bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal and forced the European Central Bank to act to prevent Italian and Spanish borrowing costs spiralling.A general strike in Italy added to the jittery mood, with markets also awaiting the decision by Germany's constitutional court on the legality of the bailouts for Greece, Ireland and Portugal.The Norwegian krone hit an eight-year high as investors sought a new currency refuge after Switzerland's move to curb the strength of the franc, posing a fresh dilemma for a Norwegian central bank that would like to raise rates to curb inflationary pressure.Gold was trading at just under $1,900 an ounce amid predictions that it could test the $2,000 an ounce level over the coming weeks.Speaking to the Treasury select committee, Jim O'Neill, former chief economist at Goldman Sachs, said the central problem facing the eurozone was that too many countries had been allowed to join the single currency. He described the situation as \"fragile and tricky\", and said that the only way the euro could survive was with political unity and a single central eurozone treasury.European banks were the worst performers on a day that saw the pan-European FTSEurofirst 300 index of top shares close at its lowest level since July 2009.The price of credit default swaps \u2013 insurance against a borrower being unable to repay \u2013 on the UK's bailed-out banks, RBS and Lloyds Banking Group, hit new highs. It now costs about \u00a3350,000 to insure \u00a310m of the banks' bonds against default for a year. Investors are worried about a range of problems facing the banks, from European debt exposure to problems raising funds and potentially huge bills looming from US lawsuits.Shares in London posted modest gains after two days of heavy falls, with the FTSE 100 index closing 54 points higher at 5157. However, Wall Street's Dow Jones industrial average closed down 101 points, its third day of triple digit losses, despite a better-than-expected performance by the US service sector in August.Financial markets believe the slowdown in global growth will prompt the US Federal Reserve and the Bank of England to pump more money into their economies, and may persuade the European Central Bank to reverse the two interest rate increases announced this year.Amid evidence that the global private sector is growing at its weakest pace since August 2009, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development is likely to cut its estimates for global growth this year and next when it publishes updated forecasts in Paris.JP Morgan's global all-industry output index, which is based on the results of purchasing manager surveys of thousands of companies worldwide, edged down from 52.5 in July to 51.5 last month.\"Growth of global output eased to its weakest in the recovery to date,\" said David Hensley of JP Morgan. \"Although manufacturing was the main drag, the service sector fared only moderately better.\"", "tags": ["Swiss franc", "Euro", "Currencies", "Stock markets", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Eurozone crisis"], "title": "European shares plunge as Switzerland caps soaring value of franc"},{"date": "2011-08-24T19:31:32Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Treasury has struck a deal with the Swiss government to repatriate unpaid British taxes from private bank accounts and end the exploitation of the country's secretive banking system.Switzerland has agreed to make a one-off deduction from all existing accounts held by people who are liable for British taxes but have not paid them. The tax grab could raise as much as \u00a35bn for the Treasury and will be applied in 2013.The Swiss are giving Britain 500m Swiss francs (\u00a3384m) up front as a gesture of goodwill.From 2013 onwards, the Swiss government and banks have jointly agreed to apply a new \"withholding\" tax on behalf of the British government of 48% on investments and 27% on gains where the records show the person is liable for unpaid British taxes, effectively ending the country's reputation as a tax haven.The deal will mean that the Swiss government and banks will identify accounts held by British taxpayers acting on information from HMRC, withhold the funds and return them to the UK. HMRC will never see the details of the accounts, but if people want to challenge a payment they will be expected to disclose them to UK tax inspectors.George Osborne said that the days when people could \"stash the profits of tax evasion\" in Switzerland were over. However, campaigners against tax evasion said that it would mean that people would be offered discounted rates of tax in Switzerland compared with the UK; that the Swiss had retained most of the secrecy in the system which they will operate and that it could undermine a more ambitious EU-wide deal that is still being negotiated.Richard Murphy, director of Tax Research UK, said: \"It's an appalling deal for the UK, an appalling deal for Europe. The one-off tax of 34% is much lower than they would have paid in the UK and in fines for avoiding it. This government is deliberately letting these people off. All those people who have been honest and paid their taxes are now saying 'why did I bother?'\"The Swiss will not pass over the details from the British accounts. The UK will never know who these people are unless they decide to disclose their details and challenge the payments. We have now outsourced British tax justice to the Swiss, who to date have done their utmost to avoid this. We've also given them a competitive advantage over British banks with lower tax rates.\"John Christensen, director of Tax Justice, said: \"This sets back European-wide attempts to create a proper framework for information exchange and Britain and Germany have done disservice to the rest of the world because this maintains Swiss secrecy. This is a shabby deal.\"The Treasury said that the rates of the withholding tax had been set slightly lower than the normal British ones to account for the fact that deductions will take effect sooner than would happen under the British tax system and that the one-off tax rate accounted for the fact that the taxpayer wouldn't have to fund lengthy investigations to recoup the money.Treasury insiders acknowledged that the negotiations with the Swiss system had been \"painstaking\" and, at times, \"delicate\". It follows shortly after a similar deal was struck between the Swiss and the Germans, which is almost identical apart from the upfront payment, which was nearly four times the amount.The deal will also apply to people who are non-domiciled for tax purposes - they will be approached by the Swiss and given the option of either paying the one-off tax on their whole account unless they can prove that some or all of the money was from elsewhere in the world.Osborne said: \"Tax evasion is wrong at the best of times, but in economic circumstances such as the present ones, it means that hard-pressed taxpayers are forced to pay even more. That is why this coalition government made it a priority to go after those who don't pay their fair share. We will be as tough on the richest who evade tax as on those who cheat on benefits. The days when it was easy to stash the profits of tax evasion in Switzerland are over.\"The Swiss Bankers Association welcomed the fact that the deal maintained account holders \"financial privacy\" and stressed that while the maximum rate would be 34%, the \"effective\" rate for most clients would be closer to between 20% and 25% of total assets. Despite suggestions that the move could bring in \u00a35bn for the Treasury, the Swiss banks suggested it could also cost them hundreds of millions of pounds if people withdrew savings.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "George Osborne", "Banking"], "title": "Treasury strikes tax evasion deal with Switzerland to recoup unpaid cash"},{"date": "2011-08-28T19:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland could become the first country to outlaw PowerPoint presentations if a new party runs in the October parliamentary elections. Matthias Poehm, founder of the Anti-PowerPoint Party, claims that \u20ac350bn could be saved globally each year by ditching the scourge of public speaking. Poehm believes that the software takes people away from their work and teaches them little. \"There is a solution,\" he says. \"A flipchart.\"On leaving academia seven years ago I vowed that I would never use PowerPoint again. I still speak at conferences, though, and have been known to rant at organisers when asked in advance for my PPT presentation. I inform them that I will be turning up with a set of index cards on which I have jotted down key points, but will not be boring my audience to tears with fiddly slides consisting of flying text, fussy fonts or photo montages.Call me old-fashioned, but I believe in having a real discussion about ideas as opposed to force-feeding an increasingly sleepy crowd with numerous graphs and bullet points projected on to the nearest wall. Sometimes I wonder why we even bother showing up to hear a colleague elucidate on their thesis, when we are helpfully posted an advance printout of the presentation. As the speaker is building to a crucial statistic, delegates have long finished and are doing the crossword instead.If Poehm gains 10,000 signatures his party is free to run candidates in the election. So far fewer than 300 people have put their names to the cause. Unfortunately I don't think a move to Switzerland is on the cards for me.", "tags": ["Computing", "Technology", "Software", "Politics", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "The political party that wants to ban PowerPoint"},{"date": "2011-08-15T18:15:55Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "One of the things about particle physics, as I've mentioned many times, is the travel. This is a drag when you have to be away from your family and spend too much time in airports. But I do like travelling, and in the school holidays the family can come too.I'm writing this in a flat on the outskirts of Geneva, with a view of CERN. My son is in the shower and my daughter just turned the light off on him. Cue shouts, and that's enough of the real-time stuff. Over the weekend we have been patrolling the weird and intricate borders of France and the Swiss cantons of Geneva and Vaud. We have learned several things:Lake Geneva gives you spots. Actually it is something that lives in duck poo that does this, and this is the first time it happened to us. Not nice. No pictures.Giant Toblerones formed a major part of the Swiss defence strategy in the second world war. Who knew? I didn't even know they had one. (A defence strategy I mean, I knew about the chocolate.)I am childish enough to giggle at foreign place namesSwiss kids don't riot, but they terrorise the locals by doing Beatles impressionsAnd finally...  this: is one of the little trains which, as with much public transport round here, ends at the French border. Very pleasant, and it made my day that the Cafe there was playing \"Let's go to bed\". I wonder if they have it on a loop?Oh yes, and Geneva does good fireworks, which are much, much better than my photography.This has been a non-physics interlude, \"normal\" service will probably be resumed shortly.", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Border Country II"},{"date": "2011-12-14T14:27:52Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Does David Cameron believe that the UK should base its future relationship with Europe on that which Switzerland currently has with the EU? We should hope that the answer is a resounding no.Think of the Swiss economy and the thing that will come to mind for most people will be banking and finance. Cameron's recent defence of the City might imply that he thinks of the UK economy in similar terms. But if he does, then his logic is wrong for four reasons.First, Switzerland has built its banking business on the basis of being a tax haven. It is impossible to know for sure how much money is illicitly located in Switzerland, but a past chairman of the Swiss Private Bankers' Association has admitted it may be as high as 30%. This is unsurprising. Switzerland deliberately created banking secrecy in 1934 to assist those evading tax in their home jurisdictions. Whether or not this was acceptable in 1934 does not matter: it is wholly unacceptable now.To make the UK into even more of a tax haven than it already is would only increase our isolation from Europe, as it would effectively be a declaration of economic warfare on the already tax-starved economies of the EU. The fightback would be serious, strenuous and quite possibly effective, which makes it all the more interesting that Jonathan Faull, the UK's most senior official in Brussels, has suggested the UK's new position is to be the Channel Islands of Europe, knowingly referring to the fact that they have for too long based their economies on such activity.Second, Switzerland's other finance activities \u2013 of which reinsurance and head-office location services are the major part \u2013 have also been based on very low corporate taxes and a logic that few jobs should be located in a place where there is little space to accommodate people. In contrast, the UK badly needs high corporate tax revenues from businesses capable of generating large numbers of jobs, as employees alone are currently unable to fund the social services they require \u2013 hence the need for a serious tax contribution from their employers.The needs of the UK and Switzerland are also very different are in a third regard. The Swiss industrial economy, as that of a landlocked state, is based on small trade volume with very high added value. In contrast, the UK has been and remains a bulk-trading nation, adding relatively little added value to goods in transit. If, by alienating our strongest trading partners, we threaten that reality then favouring the City, as Cameron has done, puts at risk our already weakened industrial base, potentially making him the biggest threat to UK manufacturing since Margaret Thatcher.But all these concerns should pale into insignificance when one further fact is appreciated. Switzerland's hot money and the best of their real businesses are currently heading en masse for Singapore. The cash is pouring out for two reasons. First, the US has broken Swiss secrecy, and second, the EU and its member states are lining up to do the same. As for real business activity, Singapore and the east Asia are simply cheaper. In that case, the reality is that the Swiss business model may itself already be bust, and only a fool would copy it.\u2022 Richard Murphy is an adviser to the Tax Justice Network and director of Tax Research LLPFollowing last week's EU summit in Brussels, many have suggested that the UK is now cut off from Europe, left on its own as Europe unites together, against it. Rather like Switzerland \u2013 much like Switzerland, in fact. But how isolated is Switzerland really?The Swiss have stayed outside the EU since its creation, preferring to use the European Free Trade Agreement and over 160 bilateral agreements with the EU instead. The reasons for Swiss independence from the EU are complex, although similar to the motives behind British hostility, namely historical independence, a fear of diminished sovereignty and a view that they know best when it comes to running their own affairs.Like Britain, Switzerland has a financial sector which makes up close to 10% of its GDP. In the worst year of the economic downturn, 2008, the Swiss continued to grow at a staggering 3.1%, while regulating their banks firmly. In recent weeks, Swiss government bonds fell so low that creditors had to pay the Swiss government to lend to them. These are hardly figures of a nation struggling with isolation. To demonstrate further, the Swiss are consistently listed in the top three richest countries in the world, and exports twice as much per head to EU countries as the UK does.Yet as good as these figures are, many claim that success in this \"isolation\" wouldn't be possible for the UK: we're told we are \"too big\". But hang on a minute, aren't these the same people who said that the UK is too small to survive without a seat at the EU table? The UK has the largest financial sector in the world: more euros are traded in the City of London every day than every other European city combined, and UK government gilts yesterday fell to their lowest level since 1889 \u2013 and that's after the veto that has \"isolated\" us. The markets appear to be giving their view.\u2022 Anthony Pickles is a parliamentary researcher and Conservative activist", "tags": ["European Union", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "David Cameron"], "title": "Should Britain become the new Switzerland? | Richard Murphy and Anthony Pickles"},{"date": "2011-12-14T14:27:52Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Does David Cameron believe that the UK should base its future relationship with Europe on that which Switzerland currently has with the EU? We should hope that the answer is a resounding no.Think of the Swiss economy and the thing that will come to mind for most people will be banking and finance. Cameron's recent defence of the City might imply that he thinks of the UK economy in similar terms. But if he does, then his logic is wrong for four reasons.First, Switzerland has built its banking business on the basis of being a tax haven. It is impossible to know for sure how much money is illicitly located in Switzerland, but a past chairman of the Swiss Private Bankers' Association has admitted it may be as high as 30%. This is unsurprising. Switzerland deliberately created banking secrecy in 1934 to assist those evading tax in their home jurisdictions. Whether or not this was acceptable in 1934 does not matter: it is wholly unacceptable now.To make the UK into even more of a tax haven than it already is would only increase our isolation from Europe, as it would effectively be a declaration of economic warfare on the already tax-starved economies of the EU. The fightback would be serious, strenuous and quite possibly effective, which makes it all the more interesting that Jonathan Faull, the UK's most senior official in Brussels, has suggested the UK's new position is to be the Channel Islands of Europe, knowingly referring to the fact that they have for too long based their economies on such activity.Second, Switzerland's other finance activities \u2013 of which reinsurance and head-office location services are the major part \u2013 have also been based on very low corporate taxes and a logic that few jobs should be located in a place where there is little space to accommodate people. In contrast, the UK badly needs high corporate tax revenues from businesses capable of generating large numbers of jobs, as employees alone are currently unable to fund the social services they require \u2013 hence the need for a serious tax contribution from their employers.The needs of the UK and Switzerland are also very different are in a third regard. The Swiss industrial economy, as that of a landlocked state, is based on small trade volume with very high added value. In contrast, the UK has been and remains a bulk-trading nation, adding relatively little added value to goods in transit. If, by alienating our strongest trading partners, we threaten that reality then favouring the City, as Cameron has done, puts at risk our already weakened industrial base, potentially making him the biggest threat to UK manufacturing since Margaret Thatcher.But all these concerns should pale into insignificance when one further fact is appreciated. Switzerland's hot money and the best of their real businesses are currently heading en masse for Singapore. The cash is pouring out for two reasons. First, the US has broken Swiss secrecy, and second, the EU and its member states are lining up to do the same. As for real business activity, Singapore and the east Asia are simply cheaper. In that case, the reality is that the Swiss business model may itself already be bust, and only a fool would copy it.\u2022 Richard Murphy is an adviser to the Tax Justice Network and director of Tax Research LLPFollowing last week's EU summit in Brussels, many have suggested that the UK is now cut off from Europe, left on its own as Europe unites together, against it. Rather like Switzerland \u2013 much like Switzerland, in fact. But how isolated is Switzerland really?The Swiss have stayed outside the EU since its creation, preferring to use the European Free Trade Agreement and over 160 bilateral agreements with the EU instead. The reasons for Swiss independence from the EU are complex, although similar to the motives behind British hostility, namely historical independence, a fear of diminished sovereignty and a view that they know best when it comes to running their own affairs.Like Britain, Switzerland has a financial sector which makes up close to 10% of its GDP. In the worst year of the economic downturn, 2008, the Swiss continued to grow at a staggering 3.1%, while regulating their banks firmly. In recent weeks, Swiss government bonds fell so low that creditors had to pay the Swiss government to lend to them. These are hardly figures of a nation struggling with isolation. To demonstrate further, the Swiss are consistently listed in the top three richest countries in the world, and exports twice as much per head to EU countries as the UK does.Yet as good as these figures are, many claim that success in this \"isolation\" wouldn't be possible for the UK: we're told we are \"too big\". But hang on a minute, aren't these the same people who said that the UK is too small to survive without a seat at the EU table? The UK has the largest financial sector in the world: more euros are traded in the City of London every day than every other European city combined, and UK government gilts yesterday fell to their lowest level since 1889 \u2013 and that's after the veto that has \"isolated\" us. The markets appear to be giving their view.\u2022 Anthony Pickles is a parliamentary researcher and Conservative activist", "tags": ["European Union", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "David Cameron"], "title": "Should Britain become the new Switzerland? | Richard Murphy and Anthony Pickles"},{"date": "2011-10-18T12:37:21Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Rare are the cases in which applicants win their case in Strasbourg and then return to Strasbourg and again win a case when they are not satisfied with the way the state handles the outcome. This happened in this week's judgment in the case of Emre v. Switzerland (No. 2). Emre is a Turkish national who had been living in Switzerland from the age of six. In his late teens and early twenties, he was convicted for a range of offences, including robbery and assault. As a result, he was expulsed and an indefinite ban on re-entry was pronounced by domestic courts in Switzerland.Emre lodged a complaint with the European court of human rights, arguing that this violated his right to private and family life (article 8 ECHR). In August 2008, the court held in its first judgment on the situation that this was indeed the case. Indicating in detail a wide range of factors (nature of the offences, severity of the penalties, strength of his ties with Switzerland and Turkey, among others) to be taken into account, it concluded that the Swiss authorities had not struck a fair balance. To their credit, the Swiss courts subsequently re-assessed the case and came to a new conclusion: the ban would now be for ten years instead of indefinitely. Arguing that this new judicial assessment constituted a new violation of his rights, Emre went to Strasbourg again.The question then presented itself not only whether the new, shorter ban constituted a violation of article 8 but also whether the previous judgment of Switzerland had been complied with (the obligation of article 46 ECHR). The court dealt with these two issues in conjunction. It assessed that the ten year ban did not comply with the conclusions and spirit of its own 2008 judgment.It held that the Swiss domestic court (le tribunal f\u00e9d\u00e9ral) had substituted the court's balancing of interests by its own. Even if one would suppose, the court went on to ascertain, that such a thing would be admissible, such renewed balancing should be complete and convincing in dealing with all the relevant factors the court had identified. The Swiss court had, in the European court's view, mainly focused on the element of unlimited duration at the detriment of other factors. Ten years was still disproportionate, in the court's eyes.And then, in a rather far-reaching conclusion, the court held the following (in para. 75):\"l'ex\u00e9cution la plus naturelle de l'arr\u00eat de la Cour, et celle qui correspond le plus \u00e0 la restitutio in integrum, aurait \u00e9t\u00e9 d'annuler purement et simplement, et avec effet imm\u00e9diat, l'interdiction de territoire contre le requ\u00e9rant. A supposer m\u00eame qu'un autre r\u00e9sultat aurait pu \u00eatre acceptable, la Cour estime que la nature obligatoire des arr\u00eats au sens de l'article 46 \u00a7 1 et l'importance de leur ex\u00e9cution effective, de bonne foi et compatible avec les \u00ab conclusions et l'esprit \u00bb de l'arr\u00eat auraient command\u00e9, dans les circonstances concr\u00e8tes de l'affaire, un examen plus complet des consid\u00e9rations du premier arr\u00eat de la Cour.\"Thus, the most \"natural interpretation\" (whatever that may mean in legal terms) and the one closest to restitutio in integrum would have been to annul immediately and completely the ban. And even if another result (a shorter ban) would have been acceptable, a good faith execution of the Strasbourg judgment by Switzerland would have necessitated a more complete application of the considerations in the first judgment of the European court in this case.What does this tell us? That is not easy to answer. The court leaves the door slightly open for a state's own assessment, as long as it scrupulously applies all considerations indicated by the court, or in the alternative the more \"natural\" solution is one which is as close as possible to restitutio in integrum. Is this another step towards more specific application of the court's judgments? It certainly requires taking all the pointers the court gives when finding a violation very seriously, even if no precise indication is given in the operative part of the judgment under article 46 ECHR. The judgment shows that in this case the most beneficial solution for the applicant should have been chosen if the state was not prepared to be procedurally thorough enough to work in a convincing and complete way with all the court's yardsticks. The more obedient the state is procedurally (following the court's criteria), the more the court is prepared to give leeway on the material assessment (the actual outcome of the balancing), it may seem. How this would apply to other situations than re-entry bans, and to situations covering other articles than 8 ECHR, remains to be seen ...Judges Malinverni (the judge elected in respect of Switzerland, now succeeded by Helen Keller) and Bj\u00f6rgvinsson dissented, arguing that under article 46 ECHR states have the liberty to chose the way in which they implement the Court's judgments, especially - as in this case - when the judgment did not indicate specific measures to be taken. The renewed assessment by domestic courts, in their view, fell within the margin of appreciation.The judgment itself is in French but the press release in English can be found here.", "tags": ["Law", "European court of human rights", "Switzerland", "World news", "Immigration and asylum", "Human rights"], "title": "Strasbourg tells Switzerland to think again. Again | Antoine Buyse"},{"date": "2011-12-14T14:27:52Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Does David Cameron believe that the UK should base its future relationship with Europe on that which Switzerland currently has with the EU? We should hope that the answer is a resounding no.Think of the Swiss economy and the thing that will come to mind for most people will be banking and finance. Cameron's recent defence of the City might imply that he thinks of the UK economy in similar terms. But if he does, then his logic is wrong for four reasons.First, Switzerland has built its banking business on the basis of being a tax haven. It is impossible to know for sure how much money is illicitly located in Switzerland, but a past chairman of the Swiss Private Bankers' Association has admitted it may be as high as 30%. This is unsurprising. Switzerland deliberately created banking secrecy in 1934 to assist those evading tax in their home jurisdictions. Whether or not this was acceptable in 1934 does not matter: it is wholly unacceptable now.To make the UK into even more of a tax haven than it already is would only increase our isolation from Europe, as it would effectively be a declaration of economic warfare on the already tax-starved economies of the EU. The fightback would be serious, strenuous and quite possibly effective, which makes it all the more interesting that Jonathan Faull, the UK's most senior official in Brussels, has suggested the UK's new position is to be the Channel Islands of Europe, knowingly referring to the fact that they have for too long based their economies on such activity.Second, Switzerland's other finance activities \u2013 of which reinsurance and head-office location services are the major part \u2013 have also been based on very low corporate taxes and a logic that few jobs should be located in a place where there is little space to accommodate people. In contrast, the UK badly needs high corporate tax revenues from businesses capable of generating large numbers of jobs, as employees alone are currently unable to fund the social services they require \u2013 hence the need for a serious tax contribution from their employers.The needs of the UK and Switzerland are also very different are in a third regard. The Swiss industrial economy, as that of a landlocked state, is based on small trade volume with very high added value. In contrast, the UK has been and remains a bulk-trading nation, adding relatively little added value to goods in transit. If, by alienating our strongest trading partners, we threaten that reality then favouring the City, as Cameron has done, puts at risk our already weakened industrial base, potentially making him the biggest threat to UK manufacturing since Margaret Thatcher.But all these concerns should pale into insignificance when one further fact is appreciated. Switzerland's hot money and the best of their real businesses are currently heading en masse for Singapore. The cash is pouring out for two reasons. First, the US has broken Swiss secrecy, and second, the EU and its member states are lining up to do the same. As for real business activity, Singapore and the east Asia are simply cheaper. In that case, the reality is that the Swiss business model may itself already be bust, and only a fool would copy it.\u2022 Richard Murphy is an adviser to the Tax Justice Network and director of Tax Research LLPFollowing last week's EU summit in Brussels, many have suggested that the UK is now cut off from Europe, left on its own as Europe unites together, against it. Rather like Switzerland \u2013 much like Switzerland, in fact. But how isolated is Switzerland really?The Swiss have stayed outside the EU since its creation, preferring to use the European Free Trade Agreement and over 160 bilateral agreements with the EU instead. The reasons for Swiss independence from the EU are complex, although similar to the motives behind British hostility, namely historical independence, a fear of diminished sovereignty and a view that they know best when it comes to running their own affairs.Like Britain, Switzerland has a financial sector which makes up close to 10% of its GDP. In the worst year of the economic downturn, 2008, the Swiss continued to grow at a staggering 3.1%, while regulating their banks firmly. In recent weeks, Swiss government bonds fell so low that creditors had to pay the Swiss government to lend to them. These are hardly figures of a nation struggling with isolation. To demonstrate further, the Swiss are consistently listed in the top three richest countries in the world, and exports twice as much per head to EU countries as the UK does.Yet as good as these figures are, many claim that success in this \"isolation\" wouldn't be possible for the UK: we're told we are \"too big\". But hang on a minute, aren't these the same people who said that the UK is too small to survive without a seat at the EU table? The UK has the largest financial sector in the world: more euros are traded in the City of London every day than every other European city combined, and UK government gilts yesterday fell to their lowest level since 1889 \u2013 and that's after the veto that has \"isolated\" us. The markets appear to be giving their view.\u2022 Anthony Pickles is a parliamentary researcher and Conservative activist", "tags": ["European Union", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "David Cameron"], "title": "Should Britain become the new Switzerland? | Richard Murphy and Anthony Pickles"},{"date": "2011-10-18T12:37:21Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Rare are the cases in which applicants win their case in Strasbourg and then return to Strasbourg and again win a case when they are not satisfied with the way the state handles the outcome. This happened in this week's judgment in the case of Emre v. Switzerland (No. 2). Emre is a Turkish national who had been living in Switzerland from the age of six. In his late teens and early twenties, he was convicted for a range of offences, including robbery and assault. As a result, he was expulsed and an indefinite ban on re-entry was pronounced by domestic courts in Switzerland.Emre lodged a complaint with the European court of human rights, arguing that this violated his right to private and family life (article 8 ECHR). In August 2008, the court held in its first judgment on the situation that this was indeed the case. Indicating in detail a wide range of factors (nature of the offences, severity of the penalties, strength of his ties with Switzerland and Turkey, among others) to be taken into account, it concluded that the Swiss authorities had not struck a fair balance. To their credit, the Swiss courts subsequently re-assessed the case and came to a new conclusion: the ban would now be for ten years instead of indefinitely. Arguing that this new judicial assessment constituted a new violation of his rights, Emre went to Strasbourg again.The question then presented itself not only whether the new, shorter ban constituted a violation of article 8 but also whether the previous judgment of Switzerland had been complied with (the obligation of article 46 ECHR). The court dealt with these two issues in conjunction. It assessed that the ten year ban did not comply with the conclusions and spirit of its own 2008 judgment.It held that the Swiss domestic court (le tribunal f\u00e9d\u00e9ral) had substituted the court's balancing of interests by its own. Even if one would suppose, the court went on to ascertain, that such a thing would be admissible, such renewed balancing should be complete and convincing in dealing with all the relevant factors the court had identified. The Swiss court had, in the European court's view, mainly focused on the element of unlimited duration at the detriment of other factors. Ten years was still disproportionate, in the court's eyes.And then, in a rather far-reaching conclusion, the court held the following (in para. 75):\"l'ex\u00e9cution la plus naturelle de l'arr\u00eat de la Cour, et celle qui correspond le plus \u00e0 la restitutio in integrum, aurait \u00e9t\u00e9 d'annuler purement et simplement, et avec effet imm\u00e9diat, l'interdiction de territoire contre le requ\u00e9rant. A supposer m\u00eame qu'un autre r\u00e9sultat aurait pu \u00eatre acceptable, la Cour estime que la nature obligatoire des arr\u00eats au sens de l'article 46 \u00a7 1 et l'importance de leur ex\u00e9cution effective, de bonne foi et compatible avec les \u00ab conclusions et l'esprit \u00bb de l'arr\u00eat auraient command\u00e9, dans les circonstances concr\u00e8tes de l'affaire, un examen plus complet des consid\u00e9rations du premier arr\u00eat de la Cour.\"Thus, the most \"natural interpretation\" (whatever that may mean in legal terms) and the one closest to restitutio in integrum would have been to annul immediately and completely the ban. And even if another result (a shorter ban) would have been acceptable, a good faith execution of the Strasbourg judgment by Switzerland would have necessitated a more complete application of the considerations in the first judgment of the European court in this case.What does this tell us? That is not easy to answer. The court leaves the door slightly open for a state's own assessment, as long as it scrupulously applies all considerations indicated by the court, or in the alternative the more \"natural\" solution is one which is as close as possible to restitutio in integrum. Is this another step towards more specific application of the court's judgments? It certainly requires taking all the pointers the court gives when finding a violation very seriously, even if no precise indication is given in the operative part of the judgment under article 46 ECHR. The judgment shows that in this case the most beneficial solution for the applicant should have been chosen if the state was not prepared to be procedurally thorough enough to work in a convincing and complete way with all the court's yardsticks. The more obedient the state is procedurally (following the court's criteria), the more the court is prepared to give leeway on the material assessment (the actual outcome of the balancing), it may seem. How this would apply to other situations than re-entry bans, and to situations covering other articles than 8 ECHR, remains to be seen ...Judges Malinverni (the judge elected in respect of Switzerland, now succeeded by Helen Keller) and Bj\u00f6rgvinsson dissented, arguing that under article 46 ECHR states have the liberty to chose the way in which they implement the Court's judgments, especially - as in this case - when the judgment did not indicate specific measures to be taken. The renewed assessment by domestic courts, in their view, fell within the margin of appreciation.The judgment itself is in French but the press release in English can be found here.", "tags": ["Law", "European court of human rights", "Switzerland", "World news", "Immigration and asylum", "Human rights"], "title": "Strasbourg tells Switzerland to think again. Again | Antoine Buyse"},{"date": "2011-10-07T21:45:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "This Matterhorn-cuddling meta-village has such a standing among skiers and mountain climbers that it could have rested on its laurels till the end of time. But Zermatt has added a cool, contemporary edge to its chocolate-box charms. Last December saw the opening of the Backstage Hotel (+41 27 966 6970, backstagehotel.ch, rooms from \u20ac250), a boutique inn with rich-kitsch suites designed to within an inch of their lives \u2013 beds are on transparent boxes in the centre of the rooms. It has a super-stylish little cinema (with chandeliers) and bar, and the spa is themed not on Buddhism like so many, but on the Christian story of creation. All over town, ultra-luxury designer chalets \u2013 fronted with glass and chrome rather than pine and cutesy balconies \u2013 are springing up, while the traditional Hotel Europe (+41 27 966 2700, europe-zermatt.ch, rooms from \u20ac225) has unveiled an airy new modern wing, complete with bijou spa. Come dinnertime in the resort, the big story is Restaurant Heimberg (+41 27 967 8484, heimberg-zermatt.ch, three-course dinner from CHF74 \u2013 \u00a352), a menu-free high-end restaurant where supermodel-esque staff interview guests about their tastes before serving personalised multiple-course feasts. Or opt for gourmet mountain hut Chez Vrony (+41 27 967 2552, chezvrony.ch).The oldest and most important contemporary art fair in the world, Art Basel (artbasel.com, 13-17 June 2012) is the tip of the iceberg in Switzerland's third-largest city. The permanent collection at Fondation Beyeler (fondationbeyeler.ch) bristles with Giacomettis, Picassos, Monets and Bacons, while the Kunstmuseum (kunstmuseumbasel.ch) houses the world's oldest public art collection, and its largest collection of Holbeins. A 30-minute bus ride takes you across the German border to Riehen and the Vitra Design Museum (design-museum.de) home to buildings by Zaha Hadid and Tadao Ando, or take a tram to the Gotheanum (goetheanum.org) in neighbouring Dornach. The centre of Rudolph Steiner's anthroposophy movement, this vast, visionary 1928 structure in cast concrete is built without a single right angle and is rich in sculptural forms, murals and stained glass.You're never more than 20km from a lake or river in Switzerland, and the Swiss keep their H2O extraordinarily clean, so even in the centre of its busiest cities, pretty much any river or lake is ripe for the dipping. Zurich tops the lido tables, with 18 outdoor bathing areas (zuerich.com), many of which morph into funky, artsy bars by night, but Geneva also has its posh pontoons, complete with sauna and hammams, in the form of Bains des Paquis (bains-des-paquis.ch). And both Basel's Rhine and Bern's Aare rivers throng with paddling punters in summer, some even commute to work this way.There's nothing much you can teach the Swiss about water-based wellness. They have a 2,000-year history of tapping the country's abundant thermal springs, but never stop reinventing the idea. Among the most sumptuous spas are those of Hotel Therme in Vals (+41 81 926 8961, therme-vals.ch, admission \u20ac31), an austere-glam grotto carved into the rock by Peter Zumthor, the Swiss architect behind this year's Serpentine Pavilion in Hyde Park, and Tschuggen Bergoase (+41 81 378 9999, tschuggen.ch, half-day \u00a346) in Arosa, whose spooky glass spinnakers shooting from the mountainside flood the space with light. New kid on the block since last spring is the huge spa at the Eden Roc (+41 91 785 7171, edenroc.ch, half-day \u00a335) in Ascona, whose mosaic- and stone-covered walls in shades of blue and grey reflect the colours of Lake Maggiore, a loofah's throw away.Switzerland's Italian-speaking region is its sunniest, and the cantons that border Lake Maggiore in the south-east boast balmy climes, lush sub-tropical flora and a laid-back riviera lifestyle fuelled by Italia-tinged cuisine. Home to lotus blossoms and giant sequoias, the stunning botanical garden on San Pancrazio, one of the lake's two Brissago Islands (isolebrissago.ch) is a must-see, as is the vibrant city of Lugano (lugano-tourism.ch). And while no self-respecting adrenalinista would miss the chance to recreate 007's Goldeneye bungee jump at the Verzasca dam, the tranquil, hamlet-studded and largely hotel-free valleys of Verzasca (verzasca.ch) and Maggia (vallemaggia.ch) are the real finds here. There is just a sprinkling of unpretentious, reasonably priced lodgings in villages such as Brione and Gerra \u2013 you may just be the only visitors in the valley.If you like your pistes crowd-free and your powder plentiful, the undercelebrated resorts of Adelboden (adelboden.ch), Andermatt (andermatt.ch) and Val D'Anniviers (sierre-anniviers.ch) are where you should point your ski tips. Quaint weathered chalets and barns are the norm here, rather than shiny hotels and busy bars, and while the marked runs are mainly in the intermediate range, there's a wealth of off-piste action in trees, powder fields and long, north-facing valleys which hold their snow beautifully. Andermatt \u2013 where Elvis learned to ski, fact fans \u2013 recently caught the eye of Egyptian tycoon Samih Sawiris. He has very commercial plans for its future, so don't delay \u2013 get there while it's, er, cold.For all their yodelling, alpenhorns and cowbells, the Swiss are no slouches when it comes to pushing the boundaries of design and architecture. Barely a year has passed of late without some ultramodern landmark building springing up \u2013 whether on an idyllic mountainside, as in the case of Mario Botta's tiny but striking 1996 church of San Giovanni Battistta in Mogno, or in the heart of a city, such as Frank Gehry's Novartis Campus building, which opened in Basel in 2009, and Renzo Piano's seductively undulating Zentrum Paul Klee (paulkleezentrum.ch) of 2005 in Bern. Most recently, the Rolex Learning Centre (rolexlearningcenter.ch) in Lausanne, a spaceship of a building by Japanese architects SANAA won Wallpaper* magazine's Best New Public Building award 2011.Switzerland's diversity is reflected as much in the range of accommodation as anywhere else. Where do you fancy hanging your hat? In Lausanne's 19th-century Ch\u00e2teau d'Ouchy (+41 21 331 3232, chateaudouchy.ch, rooms from \u00a3235), in a Mongolian yurt high above Lake Geneva on the edge of Rochers de Naye (goldenpass.ch) 2,000m above sea level, or in the unique La Claustra, (+41 91 880 5055, schau-mal.com), a luxury hotel in a converted artillery bunker bored deep into the San Gottardo mountain. At the other end of the scale, and a comfort to those fearing the all-slaying power of today's Swiss franc, the country's hostels are among the world's best \u2013 take a bow Grindelwald (youthhostel.ch), recently voted the world's cleanest. And stays in the haylofts of working farms (bauernhof-ferien.ch), starting at as little as \u00a37 a night, are proof that for all its banking muscle and corporate polish, Switzerland is still more than happy to share its rustic roots.While tour operators such as Black Tomato (blacktomato.co.uk) and Swiss Safari (swisssafari.com) offer sports cars to rent if you want to cruise some great driving roads in millionaire style, those who prefer their transport low-carbon also qualify for superstar treatment. SwitzerlandMobility (schweizmobil.ch), an organisation promoting non-motorised traffic, has created local, regional and national networks of signposted routes for hikers, cyclists, mountain bikers, roller skaters and canoeists. Many routes are integrated with public transport so you can cover plenty of ground, there are options for bike rental, overnight accommodation and transport of luggage, and you can plan your next move on the go with an iPhone app.\"Sorry I'm late \u2013 my train was delayed,\" is a not an excuse you tend to hear in Switzerland. And apart from being the centrepiece of the country's mind-bogglingly efficient integrated transport system, the Swiss rail network includes some of the most dazzling routes on the planet. Linking Chur with Tirano, just over the border in Italy, and fitted with panoramic windows, the Bernina Express (rhb.ch/Bernina-Express) rises on an old stone viaduct to pass forests, plunging cliffs and the Morteratsch glacier, taking in 55 tunnels, 196 bridges and a peak altitude of 2253m. It's only the third railway route in the world to have Unesco world heritage status.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 October 2011 to correct the original version which stated the ski resort of Val d'Anniviers was in the Bernese Oberland. It is in Valais", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Hotels", "Skiing holidays", "Spa breaks", "Cultural trips", "Swimming holidays", "Architecture", "Rail travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 reasons to love Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-12-14T14:27:52Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Does David Cameron believe that the UK should base its future relationship with Europe on that which Switzerland currently has with the EU? We should hope that the answer is a resounding no.Think of the Swiss economy and the thing that will come to mind for most people will be banking and finance. Cameron's recent defence of the City might imply that he thinks of the UK economy in similar terms. But if he does, then his logic is wrong for four reasons.First, Switzerland has built its banking business on the basis of being a tax haven. It is impossible to know for sure how much money is illicitly located in Switzerland, but a past chairman of the Swiss Private Bankers' Association has admitted it may be as high as 30%. This is unsurprising. Switzerland deliberately created banking secrecy in 1934 to assist those evading tax in their home jurisdictions. Whether or not this was acceptable in 1934 does not matter: it is wholly unacceptable now.To make the UK into even more of a tax haven than it already is would only increase our isolation from Europe, as it would effectively be a declaration of economic warfare on the already tax-starved economies of the EU. The fightback would be serious, strenuous and quite possibly effective, which makes it all the more interesting that Jonathan Faull, the UK's most senior official in Brussels, has suggested the UK's new position is to be the Channel Islands of Europe, knowingly referring to the fact that they have for too long based their economies on such activity.Second, Switzerland's other finance activities \u2013 of which reinsurance and head-office location services are the major part \u2013 have also been based on very low corporate taxes and a logic that few jobs should be located in a place where there is little space to accommodate people. In contrast, the UK badly needs high corporate tax revenues from businesses capable of generating large numbers of jobs, as employees alone are currently unable to fund the social services they require \u2013 hence the need for a serious tax contribution from their employers.The needs of the UK and Switzerland are also very different are in a third regard. The Swiss industrial economy, as that of a landlocked state, is based on small trade volume with very high added value. In contrast, the UK has been and remains a bulk-trading nation, adding relatively little added value to goods in transit. If, by alienating our strongest trading partners, we threaten that reality then favouring the City, as Cameron has done, puts at risk our already weakened industrial base, potentially making him the biggest threat to UK manufacturing since Margaret Thatcher.But all these concerns should pale into insignificance when one further fact is appreciated. Switzerland's hot money and the best of their real businesses are currently heading en masse for Singapore. The cash is pouring out for two reasons. First, the US has broken Swiss secrecy, and second, the EU and its member states are lining up to do the same. As for real business activity, Singapore and the east Asia are simply cheaper. In that case, the reality is that the Swiss business model may itself already be bust, and only a fool would copy it.\u2022 Richard Murphy is an adviser to the Tax Justice Network and director of Tax Research LLPFollowing last week's EU summit in Brussels, many have suggested that the UK is now cut off from Europe, left on its own as Europe unites together, against it. Rather like Switzerland \u2013 much like Switzerland, in fact. But how isolated is Switzerland really?The Swiss have stayed outside the EU since its creation, preferring to use the European Free Trade Agreement and over 160 bilateral agreements with the EU instead. The reasons for Swiss independence from the EU are complex, although similar to the motives behind British hostility, namely historical independence, a fear of diminished sovereignty and a view that they know best when it comes to running their own affairs.Like Britain, Switzerland has a financial sector which makes up close to 10% of its GDP. In the worst year of the economic downturn, 2008, the Swiss continued to grow at a staggering 3.1%, while regulating their banks firmly. In recent weeks, Swiss government bonds fell so low that creditors had to pay the Swiss government to lend to them. These are hardly figures of a nation struggling with isolation. To demonstrate further, the Swiss are consistently listed in the top three richest countries in the world, and exports twice as much per head to EU countries as the UK does.Yet as good as these figures are, many claim that success in this \"isolation\" wouldn't be possible for the UK: we're told we are \"too big\". But hang on a minute, aren't these the same people who said that the UK is too small to survive without a seat at the EU table? The UK has the largest financial sector in the world: more euros are traded in the City of London every day than every other European city combined, and UK government gilts yesterday fell to their lowest level since 1889 \u2013 and that's after the veto that has \"isolated\" us. The markets appear to be giving their view.\u2022 Anthony Pickles is a parliamentary researcher and Conservative activist", "tags": ["European Union", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "David Cameron"], "title": "Should Britain become the new Switzerland? | Richard Murphy and Anthony Pickles"},{"date": "2011-10-18T12:37:21Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Rare are the cases in which applicants win their case in Strasbourg and then return to Strasbourg and again win a case when they are not satisfied with the way the state handles the outcome. This happened in this week's judgment in the case of Emre v. Switzerland (No. 2). Emre is a Turkish national who had been living in Switzerland from the age of six. In his late teens and early twenties, he was convicted for a range of offences, including robbery and assault. As a result, he was expulsed and an indefinite ban on re-entry was pronounced by domestic courts in Switzerland.Emre lodged a complaint with the European court of human rights, arguing that this violated his right to private and family life (article 8 ECHR). In August 2008, the court held in its first judgment on the situation that this was indeed the case. Indicating in detail a wide range of factors (nature of the offences, severity of the penalties, strength of his ties with Switzerland and Turkey, among others) to be taken into account, it concluded that the Swiss authorities had not struck a fair balance. To their credit, the Swiss courts subsequently re-assessed the case and came to a new conclusion: the ban would now be for ten years instead of indefinitely. Arguing that this new judicial assessment constituted a new violation of his rights, Emre went to Strasbourg again.The question then presented itself not only whether the new, shorter ban constituted a violation of article 8 but also whether the previous judgment of Switzerland had been complied with (the obligation of article 46 ECHR). The court dealt with these two issues in conjunction. It assessed that the ten year ban did not comply with the conclusions and spirit of its own 2008 judgment.It held that the Swiss domestic court (le tribunal f\u00e9d\u00e9ral) had substituted the court's balancing of interests by its own. Even if one would suppose, the court went on to ascertain, that such a thing would be admissible, such renewed balancing should be complete and convincing in dealing with all the relevant factors the court had identified. The Swiss court had, in the European court's view, mainly focused on the element of unlimited duration at the detriment of other factors. Ten years was still disproportionate, in the court's eyes.And then, in a rather far-reaching conclusion, the court held the following (in para. 75):\"l'ex\u00e9cution la plus naturelle de l'arr\u00eat de la Cour, et celle qui correspond le plus \u00e0 la restitutio in integrum, aurait \u00e9t\u00e9 d'annuler purement et simplement, et avec effet imm\u00e9diat, l'interdiction de territoire contre le requ\u00e9rant. A supposer m\u00eame qu'un autre r\u00e9sultat aurait pu \u00eatre acceptable, la Cour estime que la nature obligatoire des arr\u00eats au sens de l'article 46 \u00a7 1 et l'importance de leur ex\u00e9cution effective, de bonne foi et compatible avec les \u00ab conclusions et l'esprit \u00bb de l'arr\u00eat auraient command\u00e9, dans les circonstances concr\u00e8tes de l'affaire, un examen plus complet des consid\u00e9rations du premier arr\u00eat de la Cour.\"Thus, the most \"natural interpretation\" (whatever that may mean in legal terms) and the one closest to restitutio in integrum would have been to annul immediately and completely the ban. And even if another result (a shorter ban) would have been acceptable, a good faith execution of the Strasbourg judgment by Switzerland would have necessitated a more complete application of the considerations in the first judgment of the European court in this case.What does this tell us? That is not easy to answer. The court leaves the door slightly open for a state's own assessment, as long as it scrupulously applies all considerations indicated by the court, or in the alternative the more \"natural\" solution is one which is as close as possible to restitutio in integrum. Is this another step towards more specific application of the court's judgments? It certainly requires taking all the pointers the court gives when finding a violation very seriously, even if no precise indication is given in the operative part of the judgment under article 46 ECHR. The judgment shows that in this case the most beneficial solution for the applicant should have been chosen if the state was not prepared to be procedurally thorough enough to work in a convincing and complete way with all the court's yardsticks. The more obedient the state is procedurally (following the court's criteria), the more the court is prepared to give leeway on the material assessment (the actual outcome of the balancing), it may seem. How this would apply to other situations than re-entry bans, and to situations covering other articles than 8 ECHR, remains to be seen ...Judges Malinverni (the judge elected in respect of Switzerland, now succeeded by Helen Keller) and Bj\u00f6rgvinsson dissented, arguing that under article 46 ECHR states have the liberty to chose the way in which they implement the Court's judgments, especially - as in this case - when the judgment did not indicate specific measures to be taken. The renewed assessment by domestic courts, in their view, fell within the margin of appreciation.The judgment itself is in French but the press release in English can be found here.", "tags": ["Law", "European court of human rights", "Switzerland", "World news", "Immigration and asylum", "Human rights"], "title": "Strasbourg tells Switzerland to think again. Again | Antoine Buyse"},{"date": "2011-10-07T21:45:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "This Matterhorn-cuddling meta-village has such a standing among skiers and mountain climbers that it could have rested on its laurels till the end of time. But Zermatt has added a cool, contemporary edge to its chocolate-box charms. Last December saw the opening of the Backstage Hotel (+41 27 966 6970, backstagehotel.ch, rooms from \u20ac250), a boutique inn with rich-kitsch suites designed to within an inch of their lives \u2013 beds are on transparent boxes in the centre of the rooms. It has a super-stylish little cinema (with chandeliers) and bar, and the spa is themed not on Buddhism like so many, but on the Christian story of creation. All over town, ultra-luxury designer chalets \u2013 fronted with glass and chrome rather than pine and cutesy balconies \u2013 are springing up, while the traditional Hotel Europe (+41 27 966 2700, europe-zermatt.ch, rooms from \u20ac225) has unveiled an airy new modern wing, complete with bijou spa. Come dinnertime in the resort, the big story is Restaurant Heimberg (+41 27 967 8484, heimberg-zermatt.ch, three-course dinner from CHF74 \u2013 \u00a352), a menu-free high-end restaurant where supermodel-esque staff interview guests about their tastes before serving personalised multiple-course feasts. Or opt for gourmet mountain hut Chez Vrony (+41 27 967 2552, chezvrony.ch).The oldest and most important contemporary art fair in the world, Art Basel (artbasel.com, 13-17 June 2012) is the tip of the iceberg in Switzerland's third-largest city. The permanent collection at Fondation Beyeler (fondationbeyeler.ch) bristles with Giacomettis, Picassos, Monets and Bacons, while the Kunstmuseum (kunstmuseumbasel.ch) houses the world's oldest public art collection, and its largest collection of Holbeins. A 30-minute bus ride takes you across the German border to Riehen and the Vitra Design Museum (design-museum.de) home to buildings by Zaha Hadid and Tadao Ando, or take a tram to the Gotheanum (goetheanum.org) in neighbouring Dornach. The centre of Rudolph Steiner's anthroposophy movement, this vast, visionary 1928 structure in cast concrete is built without a single right angle and is rich in sculptural forms, murals and stained glass.You're never more than 20km from a lake or river in Switzerland, and the Swiss keep their H2O extraordinarily clean, so even in the centre of its busiest cities, pretty much any river or lake is ripe for the dipping. Zurich tops the lido tables, with 18 outdoor bathing areas (zuerich.com), many of which morph into funky, artsy bars by night, but Geneva also has its posh pontoons, complete with sauna and hammams, in the form of Bains des Paquis (bains-des-paquis.ch). And both Basel's Rhine and Bern's Aare rivers throng with paddling punters in summer, some even commute to work this way.There's nothing much you can teach the Swiss about water-based wellness. They have a 2,000-year history of tapping the country's abundant thermal springs, but never stop reinventing the idea. Among the most sumptuous spas are those of Hotel Therme in Vals (+41 81 926 8961, therme-vals.ch, admission \u20ac31), an austere-glam grotto carved into the rock by Peter Zumthor, the Swiss architect behind this year's Serpentine Pavilion in Hyde Park, and Tschuggen Bergoase (+41 81 378 9999, tschuggen.ch, half-day \u00a346) in Arosa, whose spooky glass spinnakers shooting from the mountainside flood the space with light. New kid on the block since last spring is the huge spa at the Eden Roc (+41 91 785 7171, edenroc.ch, half-day \u00a335) in Ascona, whose mosaic- and stone-covered walls in shades of blue and grey reflect the colours of Lake Maggiore, a loofah's throw away.Switzerland's Italian-speaking region is its sunniest, and the cantons that border Lake Maggiore in the south-east boast balmy climes, lush sub-tropical flora and a laid-back riviera lifestyle fuelled by Italia-tinged cuisine. Home to lotus blossoms and giant sequoias, the stunning botanical garden on San Pancrazio, one of the lake's two Brissago Islands (isolebrissago.ch) is a must-see, as is the vibrant city of Lugano (lugano-tourism.ch). And while no self-respecting adrenalinista would miss the chance to recreate 007's Goldeneye bungee jump at the Verzasca dam, the tranquil, hamlet-studded and largely hotel-free valleys of Verzasca (verzasca.ch) and Maggia (vallemaggia.ch) are the real finds here. There is just a sprinkling of unpretentious, reasonably priced lodgings in villages such as Brione and Gerra \u2013 you may just be the only visitors in the valley.If you like your pistes crowd-free and your powder plentiful, the undercelebrated resorts of Adelboden (adelboden.ch), Andermatt (andermatt.ch) and Val D'Anniviers (sierre-anniviers.ch) are where you should point your ski tips. Quaint weathered chalets and barns are the norm here, rather than shiny hotels and busy bars, and while the marked runs are mainly in the intermediate range, there's a wealth of off-piste action in trees, powder fields and long, north-facing valleys which hold their snow beautifully. Andermatt \u2013 where Elvis learned to ski, fact fans \u2013 recently caught the eye of Egyptian tycoon Samih Sawiris. He has very commercial plans for its future, so don't delay \u2013 get there while it's, er, cold.For all their yodelling, alpenhorns and cowbells, the Swiss are no slouches when it comes to pushing the boundaries of design and architecture. Barely a year has passed of late without some ultramodern landmark building springing up \u2013 whether on an idyllic mountainside, as in the case of Mario Botta's tiny but striking 1996 church of San Giovanni Battistta in Mogno, or in the heart of a city, such as Frank Gehry's Novartis Campus building, which opened in Basel in 2009, and Renzo Piano's seductively undulating Zentrum Paul Klee (paulkleezentrum.ch) of 2005 in Bern. Most recently, the Rolex Learning Centre (rolexlearningcenter.ch) in Lausanne, a spaceship of a building by Japanese architects SANAA won Wallpaper* magazine's Best New Public Building award 2011.Switzerland's diversity is reflected as much in the range of accommodation as anywhere else. Where do you fancy hanging your hat? In Lausanne's 19th-century Ch\u00e2teau d'Ouchy (+41 21 331 3232, chateaudouchy.ch, rooms from \u00a3235), in a Mongolian yurt high above Lake Geneva on the edge of Rochers de Naye (goldenpass.ch) 2,000m above sea level, or in the unique La Claustra, (+41 91 880 5055, schau-mal.com), a luxury hotel in a converted artillery bunker bored deep into the San Gottardo mountain. At the other end of the scale, and a comfort to those fearing the all-slaying power of today's Swiss franc, the country's hostels are among the world's best \u2013 take a bow Grindelwald (youthhostel.ch), recently voted the world's cleanest. And stays in the haylofts of working farms (bauernhof-ferien.ch), starting at as little as \u00a37 a night, are proof that for all its banking muscle and corporate polish, Switzerland is still more than happy to share its rustic roots.While tour operators such as Black Tomato (blacktomato.co.uk) and Swiss Safari (swisssafari.com) offer sports cars to rent if you want to cruise some great driving roads in millionaire style, those who prefer their transport low-carbon also qualify for superstar treatment. SwitzerlandMobility (schweizmobil.ch), an organisation promoting non-motorised traffic, has created local, regional and national networks of signposted routes for hikers, cyclists, mountain bikers, roller skaters and canoeists. Many routes are integrated with public transport so you can cover plenty of ground, there are options for bike rental, overnight accommodation and transport of luggage, and you can plan your next move on the go with an iPhone app.\"Sorry I'm late \u2013 my train was delayed,\" is a not an excuse you tend to hear in Switzerland. And apart from being the centrepiece of the country's mind-bogglingly efficient integrated transport system, the Swiss rail network includes some of the most dazzling routes on the planet. Linking Chur with Tirano, just over the border in Italy, and fitted with panoramic windows, the Bernina Express (rhb.ch/Bernina-Express) rises on an old stone viaduct to pass forests, plunging cliffs and the Morteratsch glacier, taking in 55 tunnels, 196 bridges and a peak altitude of 2253m. It's only the third railway route in the world to have Unesco world heritage status.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 October 2011 to correct the original version which stated the ski resort of Val d'Anniviers was in the Bernese Oberland. It is in Valais", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Hotels", "Skiing holidays", "Spa breaks", "Cultural trips", "Swimming holidays", "Architecture", "Rail travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 reasons to love Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:09:25Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has charged three members of the same family for their role in the Abdul Qadeer Khan nuclear smuggling network after a plea deal which will mean that their claims of collaboration with the CIA will not be examined in court.The guilty plea by Friedrich Tinner and his two sons, Urs and Marco, brings to an end a seven-year investigation clouded by intrigue, which in 2007 involved the Swiss defence ministry \u2013 allegedly under heavy US pressure \u2013 destroying vital evidence in the case, and blocking the prosecution of the Tinners and the CIA for espionage.On Tuesday, the Swiss attorney general announced that the Tinners had been charged under the country's war material act with \"aiding the illegal nuclear weapons programme of an unknown state\".A statement from the attorney general's office said: \"From the outset, the ... enquiries indicated that the accused had links with the network of Abdul Qadeer Khan, the 'father of the Pakistani atom bomb', who supplied Libya with nuclear weapons technology.\"Khan confessed in 2004 to running a network selling nuclear equipment and know how, after one of his shipments was intercepted on the way to Libya. Khan and his associates are also believed to have supplied Iran and North Korea with uranium centrifuges, as well as the blueprint for a nuclear warhead which the Tehran government said it received unsolicited from the network.President Pervez Musharraf pardoned Khan but kept him under house arrest, refusing to allow the US or the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to question him. He was freed by court order in 2009, and has since recanted his confession, saying the Pakistani state had been fully aware of his activities.Questions remain over how much more weapons information the network sold, and to how many customers. Experts said that those questions will remain unanswered as a result of the Tinners' plea deal.The attorney-general's statement said: \"As a result of the admissions made by the suspects, no evidence will be heard in the main proceedings.\" It added: \"In addition, the court will be requested to accept a plea bargain between the parties covering sentences, the allocation of costs, the forfeiture of assets and other matters.\"Observers predicted that the Tinners would escape jail time as they had already served several years in pre-trial detention. Their repeated appeals to be freed were turned down on the grounds that their suspected association with the CIA meant they were a flight risk.In their official statement, the prosecutors said they had been unable to \"clarify satisfactorily whether the accused after a certain point in time assisted foreign services in uncovering the Libyan nuclear weapons programme\", pointing out that this was because the Swiss government had refused to authorise espionage charges \"which are of a political nature\".The claim that the Tinners' relationship with the CIA was unclear was met by scepticism by proliferation experts who pointed out that Urs Tinner himself had claimed to have tipped off the US on the delivery of centrifuge parts to Libya.David Albright, the author of a book on the AQ Khan network, titled Peddling Peril, said there were also surviving copies of emails between Urs Tinner and the CIA which the Swiss government had failed to destroy, and records of shipments of centrifuge parts by the Tinners to a non existent front company in Chicago. \"This deal has been done to keep the CIA link out of court,\" Albright said.On the question of the missing evidence, the prosecutors' statement noted: \"On 14 November 2007, the Swiss government decided that material seized in the course of the criminal proceedings should be destroyed. The federal examining magistrate was able to obtain copies of some of the files destroyed, but others were permanently lost.\"The decision four years ago to destroy computer evidence related to the Tinners case caused outrage in Switzerland and beyond. Dick Marty, a Swiss senator questioned the claim by the defence and justice ministries at the time it had been done in the national interest.\"It's easy to say you are acting in the nation's best interests when nobody can check,\" Senator Marty said.Albright said: \"It was a huge mistake by the CIA and senior members of the Bush administration to interfere in the Swiss justice system like that, and try to use their co-operation with the Tinners as a get out of jail free card.\"\"This is a very good result,\" Albright continued. \"The Swiss justice system needed to do something to set a good precedent for the future. After 20 years of crime, you can't just buddy up with a foreign intelligence service and get off.\"", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Pakistan", "Switzerland", "Europe", "CIA"], "title": "Nuclear smugglers who aided AQ Khan face trial in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-12-14T14:27:52Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Does David Cameron believe that the UK should base its future relationship with Europe on that which Switzerland currently has with the EU? We should hope that the answer is a resounding no.Think of the Swiss economy and the thing that will come to mind for most people will be banking and finance. Cameron's recent defence of the City might imply that he thinks of the UK economy in similar terms. But if he does, then his logic is wrong for four reasons.First, Switzerland has built its banking business on the basis of being a tax haven. It is impossible to know for sure how much money is illicitly located in Switzerland, but a past chairman of the Swiss Private Bankers' Association has admitted it may be as high as 30%. This is unsurprising. Switzerland deliberately created banking secrecy in 1934 to assist those evading tax in their home jurisdictions. Whether or not this was acceptable in 1934 does not matter: it is wholly unacceptable now.To make the UK into even more of a tax haven than it already is would only increase our isolation from Europe, as it would effectively be a declaration of economic warfare on the already tax-starved economies of the EU. The fightback would be serious, strenuous and quite possibly effective, which makes it all the more interesting that Jonathan Faull, the UK's most senior official in Brussels, has suggested the UK's new position is to be the Channel Islands of Europe, knowingly referring to the fact that they have for too long based their economies on such activity.Second, Switzerland's other finance activities \u2013 of which reinsurance and head-office location services are the major part \u2013 have also been based on very low corporate taxes and a logic that few jobs should be located in a place where there is little space to accommodate people. In contrast, the UK badly needs high corporate tax revenues from businesses capable of generating large numbers of jobs, as employees alone are currently unable to fund the social services they require \u2013 hence the need for a serious tax contribution from their employers.The needs of the UK and Switzerland are also very different are in a third regard. The Swiss industrial economy, as that of a landlocked state, is based on small trade volume with very high added value. In contrast, the UK has been and remains a bulk-trading nation, adding relatively little added value to goods in transit. If, by alienating our strongest trading partners, we threaten that reality then favouring the City, as Cameron has done, puts at risk our already weakened industrial base, potentially making him the biggest threat to UK manufacturing since Margaret Thatcher.But all these concerns should pale into insignificance when one further fact is appreciated. Switzerland's hot money and the best of their real businesses are currently heading en masse for Singapore. The cash is pouring out for two reasons. First, the US has broken Swiss secrecy, and second, the EU and its member states are lining up to do the same. As for real business activity, Singapore and the east Asia are simply cheaper. In that case, the reality is that the Swiss business model may itself already be bust, and only a fool would copy it.\u2022 Richard Murphy is an adviser to the Tax Justice Network and director of Tax Research LLPFollowing last week's EU summit in Brussels, many have suggested that the UK is now cut off from Europe, left on its own as Europe unites together, against it. Rather like Switzerland \u2013 much like Switzerland, in fact. But how isolated is Switzerland really?The Swiss have stayed outside the EU since its creation, preferring to use the European Free Trade Agreement and over 160 bilateral agreements with the EU instead. The reasons for Swiss independence from the EU are complex, although similar to the motives behind British hostility, namely historical independence, a fear of diminished sovereignty and a view that they know best when it comes to running their own affairs.Like Britain, Switzerland has a financial sector which makes up close to 10% of its GDP. In the worst year of the economic downturn, 2008, the Swiss continued to grow at a staggering 3.1%, while regulating their banks firmly. In recent weeks, Swiss government bonds fell so low that creditors had to pay the Swiss government to lend to them. These are hardly figures of a nation struggling with isolation. To demonstrate further, the Swiss are consistently listed in the top three richest countries in the world, and exports twice as much per head to EU countries as the UK does.Yet as good as these figures are, many claim that success in this \"isolation\" wouldn't be possible for the UK: we're told we are \"too big\". But hang on a minute, aren't these the same people who said that the UK is too small to survive without a seat at the EU table? The UK has the largest financial sector in the world: more euros are traded in the City of London every day than every other European city combined, and UK government gilts yesterday fell to their lowest level since 1889 \u2013 and that's after the veto that has \"isolated\" us. The markets appear to be giving their view.\u2022 Anthony Pickles is a parliamentary researcher and Conservative activist", "tags": ["European Union", "Banking", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "UK news", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Business", "David Cameron"], "title": "Should Britain become the new Switzerland? | Richard Murphy and Anthony Pickles"},{"date": "2011-10-18T12:37:21Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Rare are the cases in which applicants win their case in Strasbourg and then return to Strasbourg and again win a case when they are not satisfied with the way the state handles the outcome. This happened in this week's judgment in the case of Emre v. Switzerland (No. 2). Emre is a Turkish national who had been living in Switzerland from the age of six. In his late teens and early twenties, he was convicted for a range of offences, including robbery and assault. As a result, he was expulsed and an indefinite ban on re-entry was pronounced by domestic courts in Switzerland.Emre lodged a complaint with the European court of human rights, arguing that this violated his right to private and family life (article 8 ECHR). In August 2008, the court held in its first judgment on the situation that this was indeed the case. Indicating in detail a wide range of factors (nature of the offences, severity of the penalties, strength of his ties with Switzerland and Turkey, among others) to be taken into account, it concluded that the Swiss authorities had not struck a fair balance. To their credit, the Swiss courts subsequently re-assessed the case and came to a new conclusion: the ban would now be for ten years instead of indefinitely. Arguing that this new judicial assessment constituted a new violation of his rights, Emre went to Strasbourg again.The question then presented itself not only whether the new, shorter ban constituted a violation of article 8 but also whether the previous judgment of Switzerland had been complied with (the obligation of article 46 ECHR). The court dealt with these two issues in conjunction. It assessed that the ten year ban did not comply with the conclusions and spirit of its own 2008 judgment.It held that the Swiss domestic court (le tribunal f\u00e9d\u00e9ral) had substituted the court's balancing of interests by its own. Even if one would suppose, the court went on to ascertain, that such a thing would be admissible, such renewed balancing should be complete and convincing in dealing with all the relevant factors the court had identified. The Swiss court had, in the European court's view, mainly focused on the element of unlimited duration at the detriment of other factors. Ten years was still disproportionate, in the court's eyes.And then, in a rather far-reaching conclusion, the court held the following (in para. 75):\"l'ex\u00e9cution la plus naturelle de l'arr\u00eat de la Cour, et celle qui correspond le plus \u00e0 la restitutio in integrum, aurait \u00e9t\u00e9 d'annuler purement et simplement, et avec effet imm\u00e9diat, l'interdiction de territoire contre le requ\u00e9rant. A supposer m\u00eame qu'un autre r\u00e9sultat aurait pu \u00eatre acceptable, la Cour estime que la nature obligatoire des arr\u00eats au sens de l'article 46 \u00a7 1 et l'importance de leur ex\u00e9cution effective, de bonne foi et compatible avec les \u00ab conclusions et l'esprit \u00bb de l'arr\u00eat auraient command\u00e9, dans les circonstances concr\u00e8tes de l'affaire, un examen plus complet des consid\u00e9rations du premier arr\u00eat de la Cour.\"Thus, the most \"natural interpretation\" (whatever that may mean in legal terms) and the one closest to restitutio in integrum would have been to annul immediately and completely the ban. And even if another result (a shorter ban) would have been acceptable, a good faith execution of the Strasbourg judgment by Switzerland would have necessitated a more complete application of the considerations in the first judgment of the European court in this case.What does this tell us? That is not easy to answer. The court leaves the door slightly open for a state's own assessment, as long as it scrupulously applies all considerations indicated by the court, or in the alternative the more \"natural\" solution is one which is as close as possible to restitutio in integrum. Is this another step towards more specific application of the court's judgments? It certainly requires taking all the pointers the court gives when finding a violation very seriously, even if no precise indication is given in the operative part of the judgment under article 46 ECHR. The judgment shows that in this case the most beneficial solution for the applicant should have been chosen if the state was not prepared to be procedurally thorough enough to work in a convincing and complete way with all the court's yardsticks. The more obedient the state is procedurally (following the court's criteria), the more the court is prepared to give leeway on the material assessment (the actual outcome of the balancing), it may seem. How this would apply to other situations than re-entry bans, and to situations covering other articles than 8 ECHR, remains to be seen ...Judges Malinverni (the judge elected in respect of Switzerland, now succeeded by Helen Keller) and Bj\u00f6rgvinsson dissented, arguing that under article 46 ECHR states have the liberty to chose the way in which they implement the Court's judgments, especially - as in this case - when the judgment did not indicate specific measures to be taken. The renewed assessment by domestic courts, in their view, fell within the margin of appreciation.The judgment itself is in French but the press release in English can be found here.", "tags": ["Law", "European court of human rights", "Switzerland", "World news", "Immigration and asylum", "Human rights"], "title": "Strasbourg tells Switzerland to think again. Again | Antoine Buyse"},{"date": "2011-10-07T21:45:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "This Matterhorn-cuddling meta-village has such a standing among skiers and mountain climbers that it could have rested on its laurels till the end of time. But Zermatt has added a cool, contemporary edge to its chocolate-box charms. Last December saw the opening of the Backstage Hotel (+41 27 966 6970, backstagehotel.ch, rooms from \u20ac250), a boutique inn with rich-kitsch suites designed to within an inch of their lives \u2013 beds are on transparent boxes in the centre of the rooms. It has a super-stylish little cinema (with chandeliers) and bar, and the spa is themed not on Buddhism like so many, but on the Christian story of creation. All over town, ultra-luxury designer chalets \u2013 fronted with glass and chrome rather than pine and cutesy balconies \u2013 are springing up, while the traditional Hotel Europe (+41 27 966 2700, europe-zermatt.ch, rooms from \u20ac225) has unveiled an airy new modern wing, complete with bijou spa. Come dinnertime in the resort, the big story is Restaurant Heimberg (+41 27 967 8484, heimberg-zermatt.ch, three-course dinner from CHF74 \u2013 \u00a352), a menu-free high-end restaurant where supermodel-esque staff interview guests about their tastes before serving personalised multiple-course feasts. Or opt for gourmet mountain hut Chez Vrony (+41 27 967 2552, chezvrony.ch).The oldest and most important contemporary art fair in the world, Art Basel (artbasel.com, 13-17 June 2012) is the tip of the iceberg in Switzerland's third-largest city. The permanent collection at Fondation Beyeler (fondationbeyeler.ch) bristles with Giacomettis, Picassos, Monets and Bacons, while the Kunstmuseum (kunstmuseumbasel.ch) houses the world's oldest public art collection, and its largest collection of Holbeins. A 30-minute bus ride takes you across the German border to Riehen and the Vitra Design Museum (design-museum.de) home to buildings by Zaha Hadid and Tadao Ando, or take a tram to the Gotheanum (goetheanum.org) in neighbouring Dornach. The centre of Rudolph Steiner's anthroposophy movement, this vast, visionary 1928 structure in cast concrete is built without a single right angle and is rich in sculptural forms, murals and stained glass.You're never more than 20km from a lake or river in Switzerland, and the Swiss keep their H2O extraordinarily clean, so even in the centre of its busiest cities, pretty much any river or lake is ripe for the dipping. Zurich tops the lido tables, with 18 outdoor bathing areas (zuerich.com), many of which morph into funky, artsy bars by night, but Geneva also has its posh pontoons, complete with sauna and hammams, in the form of Bains des Paquis (bains-des-paquis.ch). And both Basel's Rhine and Bern's Aare rivers throng with paddling punters in summer, some even commute to work this way.There's nothing much you can teach the Swiss about water-based wellness. They have a 2,000-year history of tapping the country's abundant thermal springs, but never stop reinventing the idea. Among the most sumptuous spas are those of Hotel Therme in Vals (+41 81 926 8961, therme-vals.ch, admission \u20ac31), an austere-glam grotto carved into the rock by Peter Zumthor, the Swiss architect behind this year's Serpentine Pavilion in Hyde Park, and Tschuggen Bergoase (+41 81 378 9999, tschuggen.ch, half-day \u00a346) in Arosa, whose spooky glass spinnakers shooting from the mountainside flood the space with light. New kid on the block since last spring is the huge spa at the Eden Roc (+41 91 785 7171, edenroc.ch, half-day \u00a335) in Ascona, whose mosaic- and stone-covered walls in shades of blue and grey reflect the colours of Lake Maggiore, a loofah's throw away.Switzerland's Italian-speaking region is its sunniest, and the cantons that border Lake Maggiore in the south-east boast balmy climes, lush sub-tropical flora and a laid-back riviera lifestyle fuelled by Italia-tinged cuisine. Home to lotus blossoms and giant sequoias, the stunning botanical garden on San Pancrazio, one of the lake's two Brissago Islands (isolebrissago.ch) is a must-see, as is the vibrant city of Lugano (lugano-tourism.ch). And while no self-respecting adrenalinista would miss the chance to recreate 007's Goldeneye bungee jump at the Verzasca dam, the tranquil, hamlet-studded and largely hotel-free valleys of Verzasca (verzasca.ch) and Maggia (vallemaggia.ch) are the real finds here. There is just a sprinkling of unpretentious, reasonably priced lodgings in villages such as Brione and Gerra \u2013 you may just be the only visitors in the valley.If you like your pistes crowd-free and your powder plentiful, the undercelebrated resorts of Adelboden (adelboden.ch), Andermatt (andermatt.ch) and Val D'Anniviers (sierre-anniviers.ch) are where you should point your ski tips. Quaint weathered chalets and barns are the norm here, rather than shiny hotels and busy bars, and while the marked runs are mainly in the intermediate range, there's a wealth of off-piste action in trees, powder fields and long, north-facing valleys which hold their snow beautifully. Andermatt \u2013 where Elvis learned to ski, fact fans \u2013 recently caught the eye of Egyptian tycoon Samih Sawiris. He has very commercial plans for its future, so don't delay \u2013 get there while it's, er, cold.For all their yodelling, alpenhorns and cowbells, the Swiss are no slouches when it comes to pushing the boundaries of design and architecture. Barely a year has passed of late without some ultramodern landmark building springing up \u2013 whether on an idyllic mountainside, as in the case of Mario Botta's tiny but striking 1996 church of San Giovanni Battistta in Mogno, or in the heart of a city, such as Frank Gehry's Novartis Campus building, which opened in Basel in 2009, and Renzo Piano's seductively undulating Zentrum Paul Klee (paulkleezentrum.ch) of 2005 in Bern. Most recently, the Rolex Learning Centre (rolexlearningcenter.ch) in Lausanne, a spaceship of a building by Japanese architects SANAA won Wallpaper* magazine's Best New Public Building award 2011.Switzerland's diversity is reflected as much in the range of accommodation as anywhere else. Where do you fancy hanging your hat? In Lausanne's 19th-century Ch\u00e2teau d'Ouchy (+41 21 331 3232, chateaudouchy.ch, rooms from \u00a3235), in a Mongolian yurt high above Lake Geneva on the edge of Rochers de Naye (goldenpass.ch) 2,000m above sea level, or in the unique La Claustra, (+41 91 880 5055, schau-mal.com), a luxury hotel in a converted artillery bunker bored deep into the San Gottardo mountain. At the other end of the scale, and a comfort to those fearing the all-slaying power of today's Swiss franc, the country's hostels are among the world's best \u2013 take a bow Grindelwald (youthhostel.ch), recently voted the world's cleanest. And stays in the haylofts of working farms (bauernhof-ferien.ch), starting at as little as \u00a37 a night, are proof that for all its banking muscle and corporate polish, Switzerland is still more than happy to share its rustic roots.While tour operators such as Black Tomato (blacktomato.co.uk) and Swiss Safari (swisssafari.com) offer sports cars to rent if you want to cruise some great driving roads in millionaire style, those who prefer their transport low-carbon also qualify for superstar treatment. SwitzerlandMobility (schweizmobil.ch), an organisation promoting non-motorised traffic, has created local, regional and national networks of signposted routes for hikers, cyclists, mountain bikers, roller skaters and canoeists. Many routes are integrated with public transport so you can cover plenty of ground, there are options for bike rental, overnight accommodation and transport of luggage, and you can plan your next move on the go with an iPhone app.\"Sorry I'm late \u2013 my train was delayed,\" is a not an excuse you tend to hear in Switzerland. And apart from being the centrepiece of the country's mind-bogglingly efficient integrated transport system, the Swiss rail network includes some of the most dazzling routes on the planet. Linking Chur with Tirano, just over the border in Italy, and fitted with panoramic windows, the Bernina Express (rhb.ch/Bernina-Express) rises on an old stone viaduct to pass forests, plunging cliffs and the Morteratsch glacier, taking in 55 tunnels, 196 bridges and a peak altitude of 2253m. It's only the third railway route in the world to have Unesco world heritage status.\u2022 This article was amended on 11 October 2011 to correct the original version which stated the ski resort of Val d'Anniviers was in the Bernese Oberland. It is in Valais", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Hotels", "Skiing holidays", "Spa breaks", "Cultural trips", "Swimming holidays", "Architecture", "Rail travel", "Travel"], "title": "Top 10 reasons to love Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:09:25Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has charged three members of the same family for their role in the Abdul Qadeer Khan nuclear smuggling network after a plea deal which will mean that their claims of collaboration with the CIA will not be examined in court.The guilty plea by Friedrich Tinner and his two sons, Urs and Marco, brings to an end a seven-year investigation clouded by intrigue, which in 2007 involved the Swiss defence ministry \u2013 allegedly under heavy US pressure \u2013 destroying vital evidence in the case, and blocking the prosecution of the Tinners and the CIA for espionage.On Tuesday, the Swiss attorney general announced that the Tinners had been charged under the country's war material act with \"aiding the illegal nuclear weapons programme of an unknown state\".A statement from the attorney general's office said: \"From the outset, the ... enquiries indicated that the accused had links with the network of Abdul Qadeer Khan, the 'father of the Pakistani atom bomb', who supplied Libya with nuclear weapons technology.\"Khan confessed in 2004 to running a network selling nuclear equipment and know how, after one of his shipments was intercepted on the way to Libya. Khan and his associates are also believed to have supplied Iran and North Korea with uranium centrifuges, as well as the blueprint for a nuclear warhead which the Tehran government said it received unsolicited from the network.President Pervez Musharraf pardoned Khan but kept him under house arrest, refusing to allow the US or the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to question him. He was freed by court order in 2009, and has since recanted his confession, saying the Pakistani state had been fully aware of his activities.Questions remain over how much more weapons information the network sold, and to how many customers. Experts said that those questions will remain unanswered as a result of the Tinners' plea deal.The attorney-general's statement said: \"As a result of the admissions made by the suspects, no evidence will be heard in the main proceedings.\" It added: \"In addition, the court will be requested to accept a plea bargain between the parties covering sentences, the allocation of costs, the forfeiture of assets and other matters.\"Observers predicted that the Tinners would escape jail time as they had already served several years in pre-trial detention. Their repeated appeals to be freed were turned down on the grounds that their suspected association with the CIA meant they were a flight risk.In their official statement, the prosecutors said they had been unable to \"clarify satisfactorily whether the accused after a certain point in time assisted foreign services in uncovering the Libyan nuclear weapons programme\", pointing out that this was because the Swiss government had refused to authorise espionage charges \"which are of a political nature\".The claim that the Tinners' relationship with the CIA was unclear was met by scepticism by proliferation experts who pointed out that Urs Tinner himself had claimed to have tipped off the US on the delivery of centrifuge parts to Libya.David Albright, the author of a book on the AQ Khan network, titled Peddling Peril, said there were also surviving copies of emails between Urs Tinner and the CIA which the Swiss government had failed to destroy, and records of shipments of centrifuge parts by the Tinners to a non existent front company in Chicago. \"This deal has been done to keep the CIA link out of court,\" Albright said.On the question of the missing evidence, the prosecutors' statement noted: \"On 14 November 2007, the Swiss government decided that material seized in the course of the criminal proceedings should be destroyed. The federal examining magistrate was able to obtain copies of some of the files destroyed, but others were permanently lost.\"The decision four years ago to destroy computer evidence related to the Tinners case caused outrage in Switzerland and beyond. Dick Marty, a Swiss senator questioned the claim by the defence and justice ministries at the time it had been done in the national interest.\"It's easy to say you are acting in the nation's best interests when nobody can check,\" Senator Marty said.Albright said: \"It was a huge mistake by the CIA and senior members of the Bush administration to interfere in the Swiss justice system like that, and try to use their co-operation with the Tinners as a get out of jail free card.\"\"This is a very good result,\" Albright continued. \"The Swiss justice system needed to do something to set a good precedent for the future. After 20 years of crime, you can't just buddy up with a foreign intelligence service and get off.\"", "tags": ["Nuclear weapons", "World news", "Pakistan", "Switzerland", "Europe", "CIA"], "title": "Nuclear smugglers who aided AQ Khan face trial in Switzerland"},{"date": "2011-10-28T21:45:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "I was at the top of the Stash snowpark, just clicking into my ski boots, when my phone beeped. \"Jamaica, 1.30pm, near the snowpark in Les Crosets, accessible from the Crosets II chairlift!\" read the text.I looked at my phone again. Surely that couldn't be right? It was already 1pm, and I was in France, in the Lindaret Valley, on the wrong side of the Franco-Swiss border. By my calculations I would have to ski three runs, take two lifts, and cross the border to make it to the Jamaica gig. For any skier below gold-medal standard, that sounded pretty much impossible; but hey, this was the sort of challenge that had attracted me to the Portes du Soleil in the first place. I would have to give it a shot.Within 50 minutes, after skiing as fast as we possibly could, my friends and I arrived at Les Crosets (lescrosets.ch), a venue halfway up the mountain, where \u2013 thanks to the start time being put back \u2013 Jamaica, the French electro-pop-rock duo, were only just starting their set.We collapsed, exhausted, on a patch of snow in the sunshine, surrounded by a backdrop of immense, jagged peaks. More skiers arrived, peeled off layers of clothing, and flopped on the snow. Snowboarders wearing neon sat on boards in a semi-circle and cracked open beers (there's no bar, so it's Bring Your Own).I'd never heard of Jamaica (who produced their debut album with Peter Franco, known for creating much of Daft Punk's sound), but they played crowd-pleasers with catchy lyrics to a small but wildly enthusiastic crowd. Soon, everyone was up and dancing in their ski boots.The text-message invitation that had tipped me off was one of a barrage I would receive during the course of a week's holiday last season, at the new Rock the Pistes festival. (The festival was actually called the Go Wild Outdoor Music Festival, or Le Festival des Concerts Sauvages, last year, but has changed its name for 2012.) There are numerous music festivals taking place in the Alps each winter, but this one comes with a twist \u2013 you're not told where the gigs are taking place until a day beforehand, when you're sent a text. As the concerts could be anywhere in the vast 650km of the ski area, you might need to undertake a ski marathon across the mountains to find the party.Moreover, the festival is free to anyone with a lift pass for the Portes du Soleil, one of the world's biggest linked ski areas, which includes 12 resorts \u2013 Abondance, Avoriaz, Ch\u00e2tel, La Chapelle d'Abondance, Les Gets, Montriond, Morzine-Avoriaz and St-Jean d'Aulps in France, and Champery, Morgins, Torgon and Val d'Illiez\u2013Les Crosets-Champoussin over the border in Switzerland. It's complex to navigate your way around, but that only adds to the challenge.On the day of the Jamaica gig, we'd already skied miles from our apartments in Avoriaz to Les Lindarets (a valley venue on the French side), to see French singer Joyce Jonathan play an 11am concert. The hour was too early for a buzzing atmosphere, but her softly sung performance drew a large crowd.After those first gigs, venues kept magically popping up in valleys, on snowy ledges, and halfway up mountains over the week. It must have been a logistical nightmare for the organisers, but it was great fun for us.The bands were mostly French or Swiss, and encompassed a spectrum of sounds, from Keziah Jones \u2013 the Nigerian blues and funk singer who is hugely popular in France, and who was helicoptered in to play before a massive crowd \u2013 to high-energy Swiss-French rock group Tafta, BB Brunes, a French rock group everyone was talking about on the lifts.There were also 10 apr\u00e8s-ski concerts after the pistes closed in the Portes du Soleil resorts. The bands and solo acts playing here were part of the Festival Fringe, competing for a chance to play in the main festival this year, and next.We spent the time between parties zipping around the pistes, though this was April, so the snow was horrendously slushy \u2013 hopefully, moving the date to March for 2012 will mean better snow.At night, we alternated between cooking dinner in the apartment, at Pierre & Vacances' Residence Les Balcons du Soleil, and seeking out the next party off the slopes. One evening we took the gondola down to Morzine for dinner (though the return trip in the dark was somewhat eerie). Festival fever had certainly hit Avoriaz, where we danced into the early hours.Organising an outdoor festival with a variable such as mountain weather is a brave thing to do, but when all the elements came together and the sun was out, it was magical.If bad weather struck, however, the festival would be pretty much a washout. There was one day when conditions were so terrible (snowing wet snow) that I abandoned the slopes after a miserable morning to seek refuge and homemade spaghetti bolognese back in the apartment.That afternoon, I had the perfect excuse to try out the spa in town. As snow floated down outside, my muscles finally got a rest after all that charging around, chasing gigs.As I stepped into the sauna, my ears pricked up \u2013 I could hear something outside. Perhaps it's sleigh bells, I thought (in Avoriaz, horses and carts carry the tourists about, as if it's Christmas all year round). Then I realised it was a text message \u2013 beep beep \u2013 for which I was now on constant alert. Just five more minutes of relaxation, I thought, before getting back to chasing the next gig.\u2022 Rock the Pistes festival runs from 24\u201328 March 2012. You can register for text updates at en.rockthepistes.com/fcs.html. Directski.com offers a week in Avoriaz from \u00a3276 pp based on four sharing, including flights from Gatwick, at Pierre et Vacances' Residence Le Douchka apartments. Avoriaz has seen a lot of redevelopment this year, with Pierre & Vacances opening two new properties (470 apartments). More information from Avoriaz.com, or Pierre et Vacances at pv-holidays.com.A six-day Portes du Soleil lift pass costs \u00a3194. Ski or snowboard tuition: six half-days from \u00a3134. Ski hire from \u00a383 (six days) and snowboard from \u00a390", "tags": ["Travel", "Music", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Switzerland holidays", "France holidays", "Spa breaks"], "title": "Dancing on ice: the Rock the Pistes music festival"},{"date": "2012-01-01T15:10:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Be careful what you wish for, even though the sceptics in Tory backrooms seem to have it all figured out. No euro, no zone, no ever greater union? No worries \u2013 as the alternative swills from chat to chat. We can become (key phrase) \"the Switzerland of outer Europe\". It's that globally alluring Swiss riff again. If you don't like where you are or what you are, think Basel and Bern. If you're stuck in a valley of black despair, look up at the Eiger. If you're not sure where you're going, try munching a pippin with William Tell.Long ago, in Dhaka, I sat with a triumphant Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as he described the young, free country he hoped to build. \"Bangladesh will be the Switzerland of Asia,\" he buoyantly declared. But then a bunch of army officers murdered him. And so riff moved on.Not, alas, to the nation once memorably designated by the New York Times as the emerging Switzerland of the region: ah! Afghanistan. Nor to another much mentioned contender, Nepal. No: the current Asian champion of peace and stability is Singapore, of course, duly sanctified by HSBC. The stock exchanges, and a soothingly sedated sort of society, have it.But only in Asia. Poor battered Lebanon used to be called \"the Switzerland of the Middle East\". Guinea, Lesotho and Swaziland all aspire to be known as \"the Switzerland of Africa\". Costa Rica relishes its title as the \"Switzerland of Central America\". And now the backbenchers of Britain, too, want to play that game. You can, apparently, live at the heart of Europe without being part of it. You can let the lorries of the free market use your toll roads and cream off a nice dividend. You can keep a highly inflated currency but allow your banks to take deposits from all comers (and scrabble to keep your haven status).It's all very democratic, of course, a country run by anonymous politicians that lets the technocrats steer its ferry boats, a nation of different tongues and communities that graciously allows outsiders in to sweep its roads and bake its pizzas, but gives them only the most reduced of rights. You want change and constant referendums? Learn here that referendums mean no change. It's a placid, complacent place. Switzerland has eternal peace and convenient neutrality. Switzerland defines its own national self-interest every day.But is this the future we see for Britain (or, more accurately, for England, since that's where the wish-fulfillers live)? Even as the question's asked, you can find the delusionists moving on. If not Switzerland, then somewhere bigger, more bustling and dynamic, on the peripheries of Europe? Yes, of course! Ankara boasts a growth rate of 9.6% this year so far. We can become \"the Turkey of Europe\".Turkey cold, or Turkey hot \u2013 on the borders of Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria? Turkey armed, with generals who need shuffling away to keep elected politicians safe from coups? Turkey looking to Brussels for a future \u2013 or Turkey rejected, beginning to swagger in the Middle East? Turkey, secular or Muslim?Somehow, put that way, the quest to be something else doesn't sound so alluring. We can all the play the transmogrification game: I sometimes think Britain would be best as the new Canada, with enough prosperity and shrunken profile to suit every taste. But the harsh truth in this zone of dreams is escapism, not remote reality. We can become the England of outer Europe if we want. We can stand alone, tall and proud \u2013 or shivering. But why, then, this pile of old Geneva, this load of Istanbul?We are what we are, no matter what we wish for.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 January 2011. For the avoidance of confusion, a reference to Mont Blanc was changed to the Eiger, as the latter is not only visible from Switzerland but lies within it.", "tags": ["European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "Why can't we be more like Switzerland? | Peter Preston"},{"date": "2012-01-01T15:10:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Be careful what you wish for, even though the sceptics in Tory backrooms seem to have it all figured out. No euro, no zone, no ever greater union? No worries \u2013 as the alternative swills from chat to chat. We can become (key phrase) \"the Switzerland of outer Europe\". It's that globally alluring Swiss riff again. If you don't like where you are or what you are, think Basel and Bern. If you're stuck in a valley of black despair, look up at the Eiger. If you're not sure where you're going, try munching a pippin with William Tell.Long ago, in Dhaka, I sat with a triumphant Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as he described the young, free country he hoped to build. \"Bangladesh will be the Switzerland of Asia,\" he buoyantly declared. But then a bunch of army officers murdered him. And so riff moved on.Not, alas, to the nation once memorably designated by the New York Times as the emerging Switzerland of the region: ah! Afghanistan. Nor to another much mentioned contender, Nepal. No: the current Asian champion of peace and stability is Singapore, of course, duly sanctified by HSBC. The stock exchanges, and a soothingly sedated sort of society, have it.But only in Asia. Poor battered Lebanon used to be called \"the Switzerland of the Middle East\". Guinea, Lesotho and Swaziland all aspire to be known as \"the Switzerland of Africa\". Costa Rica relishes its title as the \"Switzerland of Central America\". And now the backbenchers of Britain, too, want to play that game. You can, apparently, live at the heart of Europe without being part of it. You can let the lorries of the free market use your toll roads and cream off a nice dividend. You can keep a highly inflated currency but allow your banks to take deposits from all comers (and scrabble to keep your haven status).It's all very democratic, of course, a country run by anonymous politicians that lets the technocrats steer its ferry boats, a nation of different tongues and communities that graciously allows outsiders in to sweep its roads and bake its pizzas, but gives them only the most reduced of rights. You want change and constant referendums? Learn here that referendums mean no change. It's a placid, complacent place. Switzerland has eternal peace and convenient neutrality. Switzerland defines its own national self-interest every day.But is this the future we see for Britain (or, more accurately, for England, since that's where the wish-fulfillers live)? Even as the question's asked, you can find the delusionists moving on. If not Switzerland, then somewhere bigger, more bustling and dynamic, on the peripheries of Europe? Yes, of course! Ankara boasts a growth rate of 9.6% this year so far. We can become \"the Turkey of Europe\".Turkey cold, or Turkey hot \u2013 on the borders of Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria? Turkey armed, with generals who need shuffling away to keep elected politicians safe from coups? Turkey looking to Brussels for a future \u2013 or Turkey rejected, beginning to swagger in the Middle East? Turkey, secular or Muslim?Somehow, put that way, the quest to be something else doesn't sound so alluring. We can all the play the transmogrification game: I sometimes think Britain would be best as the new Canada, with enough prosperity and shrunken profile to suit every taste. But the harsh truth in this zone of dreams is escapism, not remote reality. We can become the England of outer Europe if we want. We can stand alone, tall and proud \u2013 or shivering. But why, then, this pile of old Geneva, this load of Istanbul?We are what we are, no matter what we wish for.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 January 2011. For the avoidance of confusion, a reference to Mont Blanc was changed to the Eiger, as the latter is not only visible from Switzerland but lies within it.", "tags": ["European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "Why can't we be more like Switzerland? | Peter Preston"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:07:46Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for the 51 weeks a year when Davos is just another ski resort, Switzerland is renowned as a haven for multimillionaires in search of a quiet life \u2013 and a minimal tax bill. Lewis Hamilton and Phil Collins are among the Brits who have chosen to flee to the Alpine state to avoid the scrutiny of the Revenue.But tax havens, where few questions are asked about residents' financial affairs, have come under increasing international pressure to change their ways in recent years.The resignation of Swiss central bank governor Philipp Hildebrand earlier this month, after his wealthy wife caused controversy by betting against the Swiss franc, showed that the country has become less tolerant of the idea that the financial affairs of the super-rich should be secret.The UK and German treasuries have both recently signed agreements with the Swiss government under which their citizens will have to pay up for salting their money away in secretive accounts in Zurich or Geneva \u2013 though the European commission is currently challenging the deals, which have not yet been signed into law.Criticism of the Swiss authorities' approach intensified after a celebrated case starting in 2010, in which a whistleblower at HSBC released the financial details of scores of the bank's private clients, allowing the French, German and UK authorities to pursue them for unpaid tax.More recently, the Swiss government has proposed abolishing so-called \"lump sum taxation\", under which wealthy individuals can offer to pay a flat fee up front in exchange for avoiding any scrutiny of their financial affairs by the authorities.Swiss finance minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said last summer when the idea was announced that revenue could double, although she acknowledged that some taxpayers might decide to leave rather than submit to closer examination of their affairs. \"We have to realistically reckon with people leaving, but we do not think it will be a huge number,\" she said. However, the plan has not yet come into force.At the same time, a group of leftwing campaigners is promoting the idea of a referendum on imposing a federal inheritance tax for the first time, as well as a levy on financial gifts. The proposals are unlikely to be voted on until next year but could be enforced retrospectively to cover any gifts made from this month.However, Richard Murphy of the Tax Justice Network said it would be a mistake to see these straws in the wind as evidence that Switzerland is shrugging off its secretive status. \"It's clearly still a tax haven, and most wealthy people if they wanted to could still put their money there, no questions asked,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Davos", "Corporate governance", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Switzerland lifts the lid \u2013 ever so slightly \u2013 on its financial secrets"},{"date": "2012-01-01T15:10:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Be careful what you wish for, even though the sceptics in Tory backrooms seem to have it all figured out. No euro, no zone, no ever greater union? No worries \u2013 as the alternative swills from chat to chat. We can become (key phrase) \"the Switzerland of outer Europe\". It's that globally alluring Swiss riff again. If you don't like where you are or what you are, think Basel and Bern. If you're stuck in a valley of black despair, look up at the Eiger. If you're not sure where you're going, try munching a pippin with William Tell.Long ago, in Dhaka, I sat with a triumphant Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as he described the young, free country he hoped to build. \"Bangladesh will be the Switzerland of Asia,\" he buoyantly declared. But then a bunch of army officers murdered him. And so riff moved on.Not, alas, to the nation once memorably designated by the New York Times as the emerging Switzerland of the region: ah! Afghanistan. Nor to another much mentioned contender, Nepal. No: the current Asian champion of peace and stability is Singapore, of course, duly sanctified by HSBC. The stock exchanges, and a soothingly sedated sort of society, have it.But only in Asia. Poor battered Lebanon used to be called \"the Switzerland of the Middle East\". Guinea, Lesotho and Swaziland all aspire to be known as \"the Switzerland of Africa\". Costa Rica relishes its title as the \"Switzerland of Central America\". And now the backbenchers of Britain, too, want to play that game. You can, apparently, live at the heart of Europe without being part of it. You can let the lorries of the free market use your toll roads and cream off a nice dividend. You can keep a highly inflated currency but allow your banks to take deposits from all comers (and scrabble to keep your haven status).It's all very democratic, of course, a country run by anonymous politicians that lets the technocrats steer its ferry boats, a nation of different tongues and communities that graciously allows outsiders in to sweep its roads and bake its pizzas, but gives them only the most reduced of rights. You want change and constant referendums? Learn here that referendums mean no change. It's a placid, complacent place. Switzerland has eternal peace and convenient neutrality. Switzerland defines its own national self-interest every day.But is this the future we see for Britain (or, more accurately, for England, since that's where the wish-fulfillers live)? Even as the question's asked, you can find the delusionists moving on. If not Switzerland, then somewhere bigger, more bustling and dynamic, on the peripheries of Europe? Yes, of course! Ankara boasts a growth rate of 9.6% this year so far. We can become \"the Turkey of Europe\".Turkey cold, or Turkey hot \u2013 on the borders of Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria? Turkey armed, with generals who need shuffling away to keep elected politicians safe from coups? Turkey looking to Brussels for a future \u2013 or Turkey rejected, beginning to swagger in the Middle East? Turkey, secular or Muslim?Somehow, put that way, the quest to be something else doesn't sound so alluring. We can all the play the transmogrification game: I sometimes think Britain would be best as the new Canada, with enough prosperity and shrunken profile to suit every taste. But the harsh truth in this zone of dreams is escapism, not remote reality. We can become the England of outer Europe if we want. We can stand alone, tall and proud \u2013 or shivering. But why, then, this pile of old Geneva, this load of Istanbul?We are what we are, no matter what we wish for.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 January 2011. For the avoidance of confusion, a reference to Mont Blanc was changed to the Eiger, as the latter is not only visible from Switzerland but lies within it.", "tags": ["European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "Why can't we be more like Switzerland? | Peter Preston"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:07:46Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for the 51 weeks a year when Davos is just another ski resort, Switzerland is renowned as a haven for multimillionaires in search of a quiet life \u2013 and a minimal tax bill. Lewis Hamilton and Phil Collins are among the Brits who have chosen to flee to the Alpine state to avoid the scrutiny of the Revenue.But tax havens, where few questions are asked about residents' financial affairs, have come under increasing international pressure to change their ways in recent years.The resignation of Swiss central bank governor Philipp Hildebrand earlier this month, after his wealthy wife caused controversy by betting against the Swiss franc, showed that the country has become less tolerant of the idea that the financial affairs of the super-rich should be secret.The UK and German treasuries have both recently signed agreements with the Swiss government under which their citizens will have to pay up for salting their money away in secretive accounts in Zurich or Geneva \u2013 though the European commission is currently challenging the deals, which have not yet been signed into law.Criticism of the Swiss authorities' approach intensified after a celebrated case starting in 2010, in which a whistleblower at HSBC released the financial details of scores of the bank's private clients, allowing the French, German and UK authorities to pursue them for unpaid tax.More recently, the Swiss government has proposed abolishing so-called \"lump sum taxation\", under which wealthy individuals can offer to pay a flat fee up front in exchange for avoiding any scrutiny of their financial affairs by the authorities.Swiss finance minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said last summer when the idea was announced that revenue could double, although she acknowledged that some taxpayers might decide to leave rather than submit to closer examination of their affairs. \"We have to realistically reckon with people leaving, but we do not think it will be a huge number,\" she said. However, the plan has not yet come into force.At the same time, a group of leftwing campaigners is promoting the idea of a referendum on imposing a federal inheritance tax for the first time, as well as a levy on financial gifts. The proposals are unlikely to be voted on until next year but could be enforced retrospectively to cover any gifts made from this month.However, Richard Murphy of the Tax Justice Network said it would be a mistake to see these straws in the wind as evidence that Switzerland is shrugging off its secretive status. \"It's clearly still a tax haven, and most wealthy people if they wanted to could still put their money there, no questions asked,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Davos", "Corporate governance", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Switzerland lifts the lid \u2013 ever so slightly \u2013 on its financial secrets"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:01:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Heavy snow is forecast for the high Alps this week when the global elite gathers for its annual shindig in Davos. The blizzard may cover up the architectural blemishes of the unprepossessing Swiss town, but it will be unable to hide the fault lines in the global economy.The agenda is a full one, with the mood one of caution and some trepidation. Slowing growth, financial fragility, governments teetering on the brink of insolvency and default, and clear signs of a public backlash against the excesses of the rich and powerful: all have created a sombre backdrop to the invitation-only affair.So if you are not packing your ski boots in anticipation of rubbing shoulders with Bob Diamond or George Osborne, here is your A to Z guide to the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum.A is for anti-globalisation Davos is the Glastonbury of globalisation, the event that attracts all the movers and shakers of the world economy. For one week in January it contains more billionaires per square kilometre than any place on earth and, unsurprisingly, attracts the attention of the anti-globalisation movement. This year the protests will be centred on an igloo, which will be home to Occupy the World Economic Forum. The Swiss authorities tend to take a tough line with protesters \u2013 and even innocent bystanders. Last year Andrew Clark, then Observer business editor, was arrested on a train on his way back from Davos.B is for Belvedere During the day the action in Davos is focused on the conference centre, an ugly 1970s building which has recently been modernised and extended. After hours, members of the WEF normally repair to the Belvedere, the hotel where all the best parties are held and where many of the dignitaries stay. Hotels in Davos week are eye-wateringly expensive: a bog-standard, chalet-style room costs 400-500 Swiss francs (\u00a3275-\u00a3345) a night, with a five-night minimum stay.C is for Cameron The prime minister is one of close to 40 heads of state or government expected to show up for this year's talkfest. An experienced Davos hand, Cameron first came to the event as opposition leader, but will deliver one of the keynote addresses this year. Gordon Brown and Tony Blair are also both on the list of participants.D is for Doha Each year trade ministers gather in Davos for talks aimed at breathing new life into the moribund Doha trade liberalisation talks. Each year they fail.E is for Europe This year's hot topic is the crisis in the eurozone, which is casting a shadow over the entire global economy. Expect lots of sermons from the Chinese, the Americans and the Brits about the need for Europe to \"get its act together\" and warm words from European policymakers about how the worst of the crisis is now over.F is for fondue Getting the authentic taste of Swiss cuisine in Davos is surprisingly difficult, with most of the hotels serving identical international fare. Those in the know head for the Gentiana, where George Osborne dined last year with Angel Gurr\u00eda, head of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.G is for Gates Since handing over control of Microsoft, Bill Gates has devoted himself to philanthropy and will use Davos as a platform to call for the use of innovative sources of finance, such as a financial transaction tax, to fund development.H is for Hungary The attention over the past year has been on Europe's soft southern underbelly \u2013 Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain. In the past few weeks, the crisis has spread east to the former communist country, which was badly burned by the global financial crisis. An International Monetary Fund programme is imminent and Hungary's plight will be much discussed.I is for Igwel Davos is organised around a series of themed sessions in which panels of experts give their views on the issues of the moment. Behind the scenes, world leaders are encouraged to talk more freely at \"Igwels\" \u2013 informal gatherings of world economic leaders. This is supposed to be where the business of Davos is done, although the real deal-making takes place in one-on-one clandestine meetings.J is for Johnson It is a mayoral election year in London, so Boris will be in town to bang the drum for his new airport, dish the dirt on Ken Livingstone and tell the world about how wonderful the Olympics will be. Only the mischievous would say he will be trying to upstage the prime minister.K is for Klosters A 15-minute spin down the mountain by minibus or limo, Klosters has become the overspill town for those who can't find rooms in Davos or who prefer to spend more time on the ski slopes than in the conference centre.L is for Lagarde This will be Christine Lagarde's first meeting as managing director of the International Monetary Fund. She has plenty on her to-do list: preventing the break-up of the euro, addressing the state of the global economy and making sure the fund has enough money to provide help to countries that need it.M is for Merkel Each year Davos is kicked off with a big speech by a prominent world leader and this year it is Angela Merkel's turn. Germany's pivotal role in resolving the eurozone crisis means her words will be carefully scrutinised by the financial markets.N is for non-governmental organisations There was a time in the 1990s when Davos was the exclusive preserve of politicians, business folk and academics. Development was not on the agenda and trade unionists were not permitted inside the conference centre. These days the WEF prides itself on making the event more inclusive, extending invitations to charities such as Oxfam and One, founded by Bono. The U2 singer has become a Davos fixture but will not be there this year.O is for off-piste The bread and butter of Davos are the sessions on economics, business and finance, but the WEF prides itself on its array of off-piste sessions, in which members can keep up to speed with the latest developments in neuroscience, quantum physics, astronomy, music, architecture and literature. For many participants these are the most enjoyable bits of the week.P is for Pandit Each Davos meeting has a number of co-chairs drawn from the business community, which pays royally for the privilege. Vikram Pandit, chief executive officer of Citigroup, is one of this year's six co-chairs. The others are Yasuchika Hasegawa, chief executive of Takeda Pharmaceutical; Paul Polman, Unilever's boss; Peter Voser, chief of Royal Dutch Shell; Alejandro Ram\u00edrez, boss of the Mexican cinema chain Cin\u00e9polis; and, to redress the gender balance somewhat, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer.Q is for queue Unless you are a head of state, there is no escaping the long lines to get into the conference centre \u2013 and the Belvedere \u2013 at peak times of the day. It gets quite parky in January, especially when it snows, so take a nice warm coat.R is for Roubini Back in 2007, Nouriel Roubini was one of the few economists to see the global crash coming. Dr Doom, as he has come to be known will set the tone on Wednesday in a session called The Seeds of Dystopia. Not one for the faint-hearted.S is for Schwab Klaus Schwab has been Mr Davos since founding the WEF in 1971 with the motto \"committed to improving the state of the world\". Schwab, who was born in Germany in 1938, said last week that capitalism, in its current form, \"no longer fits the world around us\".T is for trophy wives Normally accompanying American tycoons, the TWs are easy to spot in Davos. They are the ones with the highest heels, the big hair, the real fur coats and the hints of expensive cosmetic surgery.U is for United States As ever, there will be plenty of American businessmen on parade at the forum, since they like a few days' R&R in the Alps. But it is a presidential election year, so US politicians will be thin on the ground. Tim Geithner, the treasury secretary, is the biggest name on the attendance list.V is for valley Davos nestles in a valley high in the mountains. First inhabited in the middle ages, from the 19th century it became a popular destination for those suffering from tuberculosis because doctors thought the air was good for their patients \u2013 including Thomas Mann, whose novel The Magic Mountain is set in Davos.W is for women Reflecting life in the boardroom, Davos has tended to be a male-dominated affair. The WEF is promising to do better this year.X is for Zhang Xiaoqiang The deputy director of China's national development and reform commission is part of Beijing's increasingly influential Davos team. Given the growing importance of emerging countries in the global economy, there has been a subtle shift at the annual meeting. Once western leaders used to lecture developing countries: now it is the other way around.Y is for York That's his royal highness the Duke of York to you. Prince Andrew turns up in Davos every year to promote Britain's exports.Z is for Zoellick Having fallen out with Barack Obama, it appears unlikely that Robert Zoellick will seek a second term as World Bank president when his first runs out in July. Rumours have it that he will announce his decision in Davos this week.", "tags": ["Davos", "Economics", "Financial crisis", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Financial sector", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Davos guide: what you need to know about the World Economic Forum"},{"date": "2012-01-01T15:10:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Be careful what you wish for, even though the sceptics in Tory backrooms seem to have it all figured out. No euro, no zone, no ever greater union? No worries \u2013 as the alternative swills from chat to chat. We can become (key phrase) \"the Switzerland of outer Europe\". It's that globally alluring Swiss riff again. If you don't like where you are or what you are, think Basel and Bern. If you're stuck in a valley of black despair, look up at the Eiger. If you're not sure where you're going, try munching a pippin with William Tell.Long ago, in Dhaka, I sat with a triumphant Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as he described the young, free country he hoped to build. \"Bangladesh will be the Switzerland of Asia,\" he buoyantly declared. But then a bunch of army officers murdered him. And so riff moved on.Not, alas, to the nation once memorably designated by the New York Times as the emerging Switzerland of the region: ah! Afghanistan. Nor to another much mentioned contender, Nepal. No: the current Asian champion of peace and stability is Singapore, of course, duly sanctified by HSBC. The stock exchanges, and a soothingly sedated sort of society, have it.But only in Asia. Poor battered Lebanon used to be called \"the Switzerland of the Middle East\". Guinea, Lesotho and Swaziland all aspire to be known as \"the Switzerland of Africa\". Costa Rica relishes its title as the \"Switzerland of Central America\". And now the backbenchers of Britain, too, want to play that game. You can, apparently, live at the heart of Europe without being part of it. You can let the lorries of the free market use your toll roads and cream off a nice dividend. You can keep a highly inflated currency but allow your banks to take deposits from all comers (and scrabble to keep your haven status).It's all very democratic, of course, a country run by anonymous politicians that lets the technocrats steer its ferry boats, a nation of different tongues and communities that graciously allows outsiders in to sweep its roads and bake its pizzas, but gives them only the most reduced of rights. You want change and constant referendums? Learn here that referendums mean no change. It's a placid, complacent place. Switzerland has eternal peace and convenient neutrality. Switzerland defines its own national self-interest every day.But is this the future we see for Britain (or, more accurately, for England, since that's where the wish-fulfillers live)? Even as the question's asked, you can find the delusionists moving on. If not Switzerland, then somewhere bigger, more bustling and dynamic, on the peripheries of Europe? Yes, of course! Ankara boasts a growth rate of 9.6% this year so far. We can become \"the Turkey of Europe\".Turkey cold, or Turkey hot \u2013 on the borders of Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria? Turkey armed, with generals who need shuffling away to keep elected politicians safe from coups? Turkey looking to Brussels for a future \u2013 or Turkey rejected, beginning to swagger in the Middle East? Turkey, secular or Muslim?Somehow, put that way, the quest to be something else doesn't sound so alluring. We can all the play the transmogrification game: I sometimes think Britain would be best as the new Canada, with enough prosperity and shrunken profile to suit every taste. But the harsh truth in this zone of dreams is escapism, not remote reality. We can become the England of outer Europe if we want. We can stand alone, tall and proud \u2013 or shivering. But why, then, this pile of old Geneva, this load of Istanbul?We are what we are, no matter what we wish for.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 January 2011. For the avoidance of confusion, a reference to Mont Blanc was changed to the Eiger, as the latter is not only visible from Switzerland but lies within it.", "tags": ["European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "Why can't we be more like Switzerland? | Peter Preston"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:07:46Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for the 51 weeks a year when Davos is just another ski resort, Switzerland is renowned as a haven for multimillionaires in search of a quiet life \u2013 and a minimal tax bill. Lewis Hamilton and Phil Collins are among the Brits who have chosen to flee to the Alpine state to avoid the scrutiny of the Revenue.But tax havens, where few questions are asked about residents' financial affairs, have come under increasing international pressure to change their ways in recent years.The resignation of Swiss central bank governor Philipp Hildebrand earlier this month, after his wealthy wife caused controversy by betting against the Swiss franc, showed that the country has become less tolerant of the idea that the financial affairs of the super-rich should be secret.The UK and German treasuries have both recently signed agreements with the Swiss government under which their citizens will have to pay up for salting their money away in secretive accounts in Zurich or Geneva \u2013 though the European commission is currently challenging the deals, which have not yet been signed into law.Criticism of the Swiss authorities' approach intensified after a celebrated case starting in 2010, in which a whistleblower at HSBC released the financial details of scores of the bank's private clients, allowing the French, German and UK authorities to pursue them for unpaid tax.More recently, the Swiss government has proposed abolishing so-called \"lump sum taxation\", under which wealthy individuals can offer to pay a flat fee up front in exchange for avoiding any scrutiny of their financial affairs by the authorities.Swiss finance minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said last summer when the idea was announced that revenue could double, although she acknowledged that some taxpayers might decide to leave rather than submit to closer examination of their affairs. \"We have to realistically reckon with people leaving, but we do not think it will be a huge number,\" she said. However, the plan has not yet come into force.At the same time, a group of leftwing campaigners is promoting the idea of a referendum on imposing a federal inheritance tax for the first time, as well as a levy on financial gifts. The proposals are unlikely to be voted on until next year but could be enforced retrospectively to cover any gifts made from this month.However, Richard Murphy of the Tax Justice Network said it would be a mistake to see these straws in the wind as evidence that Switzerland is shrugging off its secretive status. \"It's clearly still a tax haven, and most wealthy people if they wanted to could still put their money there, no questions asked,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Davos", "Corporate governance", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Switzerland lifts the lid \u2013 ever so slightly \u2013 on its financial secrets"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:01:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Heavy snow is forecast for the high Alps this week when the global elite gathers for its annual shindig in Davos. The blizzard may cover up the architectural blemishes of the unprepossessing Swiss town, but it will be unable to hide the fault lines in the global economy.The agenda is a full one, with the mood one of caution and some trepidation. Slowing growth, financial fragility, governments teetering on the brink of insolvency and default, and clear signs of a public backlash against the excesses of the rich and powerful: all have created a sombre backdrop to the invitation-only affair.So if you are not packing your ski boots in anticipation of rubbing shoulders with Bob Diamond or George Osborne, here is your A to Z guide to the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum.A is for anti-globalisation Davos is the Glastonbury of globalisation, the event that attracts all the movers and shakers of the world economy. For one week in January it contains more billionaires per square kilometre than any place on earth and, unsurprisingly, attracts the attention of the anti-globalisation movement. This year the protests will be centred on an igloo, which will be home to Occupy the World Economic Forum. The Swiss authorities tend to take a tough line with protesters \u2013 and even innocent bystanders. Last year Andrew Clark, then Observer business editor, was arrested on a train on his way back from Davos.B is for Belvedere During the day the action in Davos is focused on the conference centre, an ugly 1970s building which has recently been modernised and extended. After hours, members of the WEF normally repair to the Belvedere, the hotel where all the best parties are held and where many of the dignitaries stay. Hotels in Davos week are eye-wateringly expensive: a bog-standard, chalet-style room costs 400-500 Swiss francs (\u00a3275-\u00a3345) a night, with a five-night minimum stay.C is for Cameron The prime minister is one of close to 40 heads of state or government expected to show up for this year's talkfest. An experienced Davos hand, Cameron first came to the event as opposition leader, but will deliver one of the keynote addresses this year. Gordon Brown and Tony Blair are also both on the list of participants.D is for Doha Each year trade ministers gather in Davos for talks aimed at breathing new life into the moribund Doha trade liberalisation talks. Each year they fail.E is for Europe This year's hot topic is the crisis in the eurozone, which is casting a shadow over the entire global economy. Expect lots of sermons from the Chinese, the Americans and the Brits about the need for Europe to \"get its act together\" and warm words from European policymakers about how the worst of the crisis is now over.F is for fondue Getting the authentic taste of Swiss cuisine in Davos is surprisingly difficult, with most of the hotels serving identical international fare. Those in the know head for the Gentiana, where George Osborne dined last year with Angel Gurr\u00eda, head of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.G is for Gates Since handing over control of Microsoft, Bill Gates has devoted himself to philanthropy and will use Davos as a platform to call for the use of innovative sources of finance, such as a financial transaction tax, to fund development.H is for Hungary The attention over the past year has been on Europe's soft southern underbelly \u2013 Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain. In the past few weeks, the crisis has spread east to the former communist country, which was badly burned by the global financial crisis. An International Monetary Fund programme is imminent and Hungary's plight will be much discussed.I is for Igwel Davos is organised around a series of themed sessions in which panels of experts give their views on the issues of the moment. Behind the scenes, world leaders are encouraged to talk more freely at \"Igwels\" \u2013 informal gatherings of world economic leaders. This is supposed to be where the business of Davos is done, although the real deal-making takes place in one-on-one clandestine meetings.J is for Johnson It is a mayoral election year in London, so Boris will be in town to bang the drum for his new airport, dish the dirt on Ken Livingstone and tell the world about how wonderful the Olympics will be. Only the mischievous would say he will be trying to upstage the prime minister.K is for Klosters A 15-minute spin down the mountain by minibus or limo, Klosters has become the overspill town for those who can't find rooms in Davos or who prefer to spend more time on the ski slopes than in the conference centre.L is for Lagarde This will be Christine Lagarde's first meeting as managing director of the International Monetary Fund. She has plenty on her to-do list: preventing the break-up of the euro, addressing the state of the global economy and making sure the fund has enough money to provide help to countries that need it.M is for Merkel Each year Davos is kicked off with a big speech by a prominent world leader and this year it is Angela Merkel's turn. Germany's pivotal role in resolving the eurozone crisis means her words will be carefully scrutinised by the financial markets.N is for non-governmental organisations There was a time in the 1990s when Davos was the exclusive preserve of politicians, business folk and academics. Development was not on the agenda and trade unionists were not permitted inside the conference centre. These days the WEF prides itself on making the event more inclusive, extending invitations to charities such as Oxfam and One, founded by Bono. The U2 singer has become a Davos fixture but will not be there this year.O is for off-piste The bread and butter of Davos are the sessions on economics, business and finance, but the WEF prides itself on its array of off-piste sessions, in which members can keep up to speed with the latest developments in neuroscience, quantum physics, astronomy, music, architecture and literature. For many participants these are the most enjoyable bits of the week.P is for Pandit Each Davos meeting has a number of co-chairs drawn from the business community, which pays royally for the privilege. Vikram Pandit, chief executive officer of Citigroup, is one of this year's six co-chairs. The others are Yasuchika Hasegawa, chief executive of Takeda Pharmaceutical; Paul Polman, Unilever's boss; Peter Voser, chief of Royal Dutch Shell; Alejandro Ram\u00edrez, boss of the Mexican cinema chain Cin\u00e9polis; and, to redress the gender balance somewhat, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer.Q is for queue Unless you are a head of state, there is no escaping the long lines to get into the conference centre \u2013 and the Belvedere \u2013 at peak times of the day. It gets quite parky in January, especially when it snows, so take a nice warm coat.R is for Roubini Back in 2007, Nouriel Roubini was one of the few economists to see the global crash coming. Dr Doom, as he has come to be known will set the tone on Wednesday in a session called The Seeds of Dystopia. Not one for the faint-hearted.S is for Schwab Klaus Schwab has been Mr Davos since founding the WEF in 1971 with the motto \"committed to improving the state of the world\". Schwab, who was born in Germany in 1938, said last week that capitalism, in its current form, \"no longer fits the world around us\".T is for trophy wives Normally accompanying American tycoons, the TWs are easy to spot in Davos. They are the ones with the highest heels, the big hair, the real fur coats and the hints of expensive cosmetic surgery.U is for United States As ever, there will be plenty of American businessmen on parade at the forum, since they like a few days' R&R in the Alps. But it is a presidential election year, so US politicians will be thin on the ground. Tim Geithner, the treasury secretary, is the biggest name on the attendance list.V is for valley Davos nestles in a valley high in the mountains. First inhabited in the middle ages, from the 19th century it became a popular destination for those suffering from tuberculosis because doctors thought the air was good for their patients \u2013 including Thomas Mann, whose novel The Magic Mountain is set in Davos.W is for women Reflecting life in the boardroom, Davos has tended to be a male-dominated affair. The WEF is promising to do better this year.X is for Zhang Xiaoqiang The deputy director of China's national development and reform commission is part of Beijing's increasingly influential Davos team. Given the growing importance of emerging countries in the global economy, there has been a subtle shift at the annual meeting. Once western leaders used to lecture developing countries: now it is the other way around.Y is for York That's his royal highness the Duke of York to you. Prince Andrew turns up in Davos every year to promote Britain's exports.Z is for Zoellick Having fallen out with Barack Obama, it appears unlikely that Robert Zoellick will seek a second term as World Bank president when his first runs out in July. Rumours have it that he will announce his decision in Davos this week.", "tags": ["Davos", "Economics", "Financial crisis", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Financial sector", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Davos guide: what you need to know about the World Economic Forum"},{"date": "2012-01-26T11:26:38Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the beginning of last December, the Northern League \u2013 having left the majority that supported the government \u2013 convened in Vicenza for what it called \"the Northern parliament\". Its leader, Umberto Bossi, then announced its new political policy. Its aim is no less than to alter the geography of Europe.Bossi unveiled a great map, coloured in by his son Renzo, that signalled the birth of a new state composed of so-called Padania (that is, the regions of Northern Italy), Switzerland, Austria, Bavaria and Savoy. Soon afterwards, to confirm the \"seriousness\" of the programme, the former minister Roberto Calderoli said that, from now on, all members of the Northern League, when they renewed their party membership, would have to swear solemnly to fight for the secession of Padania.It is not the first time, of course, that the League has spoken of secession: this has, in fact, always been its final objective, or at least its dream. However, never before has it spoken of changing not only the borders of Italy, but also of other states such as France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland.The move might sound pan-European, but the league's members are about as far as you can get from European integrationists. They have made much of their Euroscepticism over the years, and are finding now they are at the vanguard of a growing movement that encompasses much of the centre right in Italy. Italian Euroscepticism has been boosted by gathering hostility towards the single currency, which is considered to be responsible for the economic crisis; and it is particularly resentful of the most powerful European states, who are believed to be the real rulers of a union in which Italy plays the part of poor relation or even colony.In support of his new policy, Bossi explained that a war had been fought in Europe \u2013 monetary and non-military, but nevertheless a war \u2013 and Italy had lost. And when wars end, he added, treaties are written and borders are changed.How credible is a policy of this nature? In Italy, it is considered a farce, and it is possible that reactions from abroad have been even harsher: come on, just imagine how the Germans, the French, the Swiss and the Austrians would react to news that a man going by the name of Umberto Bossi wants to take over their countries.Nevertheless, putting this to one side, it would be a mistake to dismiss it all as a mere pipe-dream. The League may be full of big talk, but it knows it can take advantage of the deeply rooted opinions of a substantial proportion of the population of northern Italy. The sacrifices Mario Monti's government has asked Italians to make for the sake of stability are certainly strengthening this intolerance towards the EU.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "European Union", "World news"], "title": "Italy's Northern League: Eurosceptics with their own pan-European project"},{"date": "2012-01-01T15:10:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Be careful what you wish for, even though the sceptics in Tory backrooms seem to have it all figured out. No euro, no zone, no ever greater union? No worries \u2013 as the alternative swills from chat to chat. We can become (key phrase) \"the Switzerland of outer Europe\". It's that globally alluring Swiss riff again. If you don't like where you are or what you are, think Basel and Bern. If you're stuck in a valley of black despair, look up at the Eiger. If you're not sure where you're going, try munching a pippin with William Tell.Long ago, in Dhaka, I sat with a triumphant Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as he described the young, free country he hoped to build. \"Bangladesh will be the Switzerland of Asia,\" he buoyantly declared. But then a bunch of army officers murdered him. And so riff moved on.Not, alas, to the nation once memorably designated by the New York Times as the emerging Switzerland of the region: ah! Afghanistan. Nor to another much mentioned contender, Nepal. No: the current Asian champion of peace and stability is Singapore, of course, duly sanctified by HSBC. The stock exchanges, and a soothingly sedated sort of society, have it.But only in Asia. Poor battered Lebanon used to be called \"the Switzerland of the Middle East\". Guinea, Lesotho and Swaziland all aspire to be known as \"the Switzerland of Africa\". Costa Rica relishes its title as the \"Switzerland of Central America\". And now the backbenchers of Britain, too, want to play that game. You can, apparently, live at the heart of Europe without being part of it. You can let the lorries of the free market use your toll roads and cream off a nice dividend. You can keep a highly inflated currency but allow your banks to take deposits from all comers (and scrabble to keep your haven status).It's all very democratic, of course, a country run by anonymous politicians that lets the technocrats steer its ferry boats, a nation of different tongues and communities that graciously allows outsiders in to sweep its roads and bake its pizzas, but gives them only the most reduced of rights. You want change and constant referendums? Learn here that referendums mean no change. It's a placid, complacent place. Switzerland has eternal peace and convenient neutrality. Switzerland defines its own national self-interest every day.But is this the future we see for Britain (or, more accurately, for England, since that's where the wish-fulfillers live)? Even as the question's asked, you can find the delusionists moving on. If not Switzerland, then somewhere bigger, more bustling and dynamic, on the peripheries of Europe? Yes, of course! Ankara boasts a growth rate of 9.6% this year so far. We can become \"the Turkey of Europe\".Turkey cold, or Turkey hot \u2013 on the borders of Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria? Turkey armed, with generals who need shuffling away to keep elected politicians safe from coups? Turkey looking to Brussels for a future \u2013 or Turkey rejected, beginning to swagger in the Middle East? Turkey, secular or Muslim?Somehow, put that way, the quest to be something else doesn't sound so alluring. We can all the play the transmogrification game: I sometimes think Britain would be best as the new Canada, with enough prosperity and shrunken profile to suit every taste. But the harsh truth in this zone of dreams is escapism, not remote reality. We can become the England of outer Europe if we want. We can stand alone, tall and proud \u2013 or shivering. But why, then, this pile of old Geneva, this load of Istanbul?We are what we are, no matter what we wish for.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 January 2011. For the avoidance of confusion, a reference to Mont Blanc was changed to the Eiger, as the latter is not only visible from Switzerland but lies within it.", "tags": ["European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "Why can't we be more like Switzerland? | Peter Preston"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:07:46Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for the 51 weeks a year when Davos is just another ski resort, Switzerland is renowned as a haven for multimillionaires in search of a quiet life \u2013 and a minimal tax bill. Lewis Hamilton and Phil Collins are among the Brits who have chosen to flee to the Alpine state to avoid the scrutiny of the Revenue.But tax havens, where few questions are asked about residents' financial affairs, have come under increasing international pressure to change their ways in recent years.The resignation of Swiss central bank governor Philipp Hildebrand earlier this month, after his wealthy wife caused controversy by betting against the Swiss franc, showed that the country has become less tolerant of the idea that the financial affairs of the super-rich should be secret.The UK and German treasuries have both recently signed agreements with the Swiss government under which their citizens will have to pay up for salting their money away in secretive accounts in Zurich or Geneva \u2013 though the European commission is currently challenging the deals, which have not yet been signed into law.Criticism of the Swiss authorities' approach intensified after a celebrated case starting in 2010, in which a whistleblower at HSBC released the financial details of scores of the bank's private clients, allowing the French, German and UK authorities to pursue them for unpaid tax.More recently, the Swiss government has proposed abolishing so-called \"lump sum taxation\", under which wealthy individuals can offer to pay a flat fee up front in exchange for avoiding any scrutiny of their financial affairs by the authorities.Swiss finance minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said last summer when the idea was announced that revenue could double, although she acknowledged that some taxpayers might decide to leave rather than submit to closer examination of their affairs. \"We have to realistically reckon with people leaving, but we do not think it will be a huge number,\" she said. However, the plan has not yet come into force.At the same time, a group of leftwing campaigners is promoting the idea of a referendum on imposing a federal inheritance tax for the first time, as well as a levy on financial gifts. The proposals are unlikely to be voted on until next year but could be enforced retrospectively to cover any gifts made from this month.However, Richard Murphy of the Tax Justice Network said it would be a mistake to see these straws in the wind as evidence that Switzerland is shrugging off its secretive status. \"It's clearly still a tax haven, and most wealthy people if they wanted to could still put their money there, no questions asked,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Davos", "Corporate governance", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Switzerland lifts the lid \u2013 ever so slightly \u2013 on its financial secrets"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:01:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Heavy snow is forecast for the high Alps this week when the global elite gathers for its annual shindig in Davos. The blizzard may cover up the architectural blemishes of the unprepossessing Swiss town, but it will be unable to hide the fault lines in the global economy.The agenda is a full one, with the mood one of caution and some trepidation. Slowing growth, financial fragility, governments teetering on the brink of insolvency and default, and clear signs of a public backlash against the excesses of the rich and powerful: all have created a sombre backdrop to the invitation-only affair.So if you are not packing your ski boots in anticipation of rubbing shoulders with Bob Diamond or George Osborne, here is your A to Z guide to the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum.A is for anti-globalisation Davos is the Glastonbury of globalisation, the event that attracts all the movers and shakers of the world economy. For one week in January it contains more billionaires per square kilometre than any place on earth and, unsurprisingly, attracts the attention of the anti-globalisation movement. This year the protests will be centred on an igloo, which will be home to Occupy the World Economic Forum. The Swiss authorities tend to take a tough line with protesters \u2013 and even innocent bystanders. Last year Andrew Clark, then Observer business editor, was arrested on a train on his way back from Davos.B is for Belvedere During the day the action in Davos is focused on the conference centre, an ugly 1970s building which has recently been modernised and extended. After hours, members of the WEF normally repair to the Belvedere, the hotel where all the best parties are held and where many of the dignitaries stay. Hotels in Davos week are eye-wateringly expensive: a bog-standard, chalet-style room costs 400-500 Swiss francs (\u00a3275-\u00a3345) a night, with a five-night minimum stay.C is for Cameron The prime minister is one of close to 40 heads of state or government expected to show up for this year's talkfest. An experienced Davos hand, Cameron first came to the event as opposition leader, but will deliver one of the keynote addresses this year. Gordon Brown and Tony Blair are also both on the list of participants.D is for Doha Each year trade ministers gather in Davos for talks aimed at breathing new life into the moribund Doha trade liberalisation talks. Each year they fail.E is for Europe This year's hot topic is the crisis in the eurozone, which is casting a shadow over the entire global economy. Expect lots of sermons from the Chinese, the Americans and the Brits about the need for Europe to \"get its act together\" and warm words from European policymakers about how the worst of the crisis is now over.F is for fondue Getting the authentic taste of Swiss cuisine in Davos is surprisingly difficult, with most of the hotels serving identical international fare. Those in the know head for the Gentiana, where George Osborne dined last year with Angel Gurr\u00eda, head of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.G is for Gates Since handing over control of Microsoft, Bill Gates has devoted himself to philanthropy and will use Davos as a platform to call for the use of innovative sources of finance, such as a financial transaction tax, to fund development.H is for Hungary The attention over the past year has been on Europe's soft southern underbelly \u2013 Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain. In the past few weeks, the crisis has spread east to the former communist country, which was badly burned by the global financial crisis. An International Monetary Fund programme is imminent and Hungary's plight will be much discussed.I is for Igwel Davos is organised around a series of themed sessions in which panels of experts give their views on the issues of the moment. Behind the scenes, world leaders are encouraged to talk more freely at \"Igwels\" \u2013 informal gatherings of world economic leaders. This is supposed to be where the business of Davos is done, although the real deal-making takes place in one-on-one clandestine meetings.J is for Johnson It is a mayoral election year in London, so Boris will be in town to bang the drum for his new airport, dish the dirt on Ken Livingstone and tell the world about how wonderful the Olympics will be. Only the mischievous would say he will be trying to upstage the prime minister.K is for Klosters A 15-minute spin down the mountain by minibus or limo, Klosters has become the overspill town for those who can't find rooms in Davos or who prefer to spend more time on the ski slopes than in the conference centre.L is for Lagarde This will be Christine Lagarde's first meeting as managing director of the International Monetary Fund. She has plenty on her to-do list: preventing the break-up of the euro, addressing the state of the global economy and making sure the fund has enough money to provide help to countries that need it.M is for Merkel Each year Davos is kicked off with a big speech by a prominent world leader and this year it is Angela Merkel's turn. Germany's pivotal role in resolving the eurozone crisis means her words will be carefully scrutinised by the financial markets.N is for non-governmental organisations There was a time in the 1990s when Davos was the exclusive preserve of politicians, business folk and academics. Development was not on the agenda and trade unionists were not permitted inside the conference centre. These days the WEF prides itself on making the event more inclusive, extending invitations to charities such as Oxfam and One, founded by Bono. The U2 singer has become a Davos fixture but will not be there this year.O is for off-piste The bread and butter of Davos are the sessions on economics, business and finance, but the WEF prides itself on its array of off-piste sessions, in which members can keep up to speed with the latest developments in neuroscience, quantum physics, astronomy, music, architecture and literature. For many participants these are the most enjoyable bits of the week.P is for Pandit Each Davos meeting has a number of co-chairs drawn from the business community, which pays royally for the privilege. Vikram Pandit, chief executive officer of Citigroup, is one of this year's six co-chairs. The others are Yasuchika Hasegawa, chief executive of Takeda Pharmaceutical; Paul Polman, Unilever's boss; Peter Voser, chief of Royal Dutch Shell; Alejandro Ram\u00edrez, boss of the Mexican cinema chain Cin\u00e9polis; and, to redress the gender balance somewhat, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer.Q is for queue Unless you are a head of state, there is no escaping the long lines to get into the conference centre \u2013 and the Belvedere \u2013 at peak times of the day. It gets quite parky in January, especially when it snows, so take a nice warm coat.R is for Roubini Back in 2007, Nouriel Roubini was one of the few economists to see the global crash coming. Dr Doom, as he has come to be known will set the tone on Wednesday in a session called The Seeds of Dystopia. Not one for the faint-hearted.S is for Schwab Klaus Schwab has been Mr Davos since founding the WEF in 1971 with the motto \"committed to improving the state of the world\". Schwab, who was born in Germany in 1938, said last week that capitalism, in its current form, \"no longer fits the world around us\".T is for trophy wives Normally accompanying American tycoons, the TWs are easy to spot in Davos. They are the ones with the highest heels, the big hair, the real fur coats and the hints of expensive cosmetic surgery.U is for United States As ever, there will be plenty of American businessmen on parade at the forum, since they like a few days' R&R in the Alps. But it is a presidential election year, so US politicians will be thin on the ground. Tim Geithner, the treasury secretary, is the biggest name on the attendance list.V is for valley Davos nestles in a valley high in the mountains. First inhabited in the middle ages, from the 19th century it became a popular destination for those suffering from tuberculosis because doctors thought the air was good for their patients \u2013 including Thomas Mann, whose novel The Magic Mountain is set in Davos.W is for women Reflecting life in the boardroom, Davos has tended to be a male-dominated affair. The WEF is promising to do better this year.X is for Zhang Xiaoqiang The deputy director of China's national development and reform commission is part of Beijing's increasingly influential Davos team. Given the growing importance of emerging countries in the global economy, there has been a subtle shift at the annual meeting. Once western leaders used to lecture developing countries: now it is the other way around.Y is for York That's his royal highness the Duke of York to you. Prince Andrew turns up in Davos every year to promote Britain's exports.Z is for Zoellick Having fallen out with Barack Obama, it appears unlikely that Robert Zoellick will seek a second term as World Bank president when his first runs out in July. Rumours have it that he will announce his decision in Davos this week.", "tags": ["Davos", "Economics", "Financial crisis", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Financial sector", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Davos guide: what you need to know about the World Economic Forum"},{"date": "2012-01-26T11:26:38Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the beginning of last December, the Northern League \u2013 having left the majority that supported the government \u2013 convened in Vicenza for what it called \"the Northern parliament\". Its leader, Umberto Bossi, then announced its new political policy. Its aim is no less than to alter the geography of Europe.Bossi unveiled a great map, coloured in by his son Renzo, that signalled the birth of a new state composed of so-called Padania (that is, the regions of Northern Italy), Switzerland, Austria, Bavaria and Savoy. Soon afterwards, to confirm the \"seriousness\" of the programme, the former minister Roberto Calderoli said that, from now on, all members of the Northern League, when they renewed their party membership, would have to swear solemnly to fight for the secession of Padania.It is not the first time, of course, that the League has spoken of secession: this has, in fact, always been its final objective, or at least its dream. However, never before has it spoken of changing not only the borders of Italy, but also of other states such as France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland.The move might sound pan-European, but the league's members are about as far as you can get from European integrationists. They have made much of their Euroscepticism over the years, and are finding now they are at the vanguard of a growing movement that encompasses much of the centre right in Italy. Italian Euroscepticism has been boosted by gathering hostility towards the single currency, which is considered to be responsible for the economic crisis; and it is particularly resentful of the most powerful European states, who are believed to be the real rulers of a union in which Italy plays the part of poor relation or even colony.In support of his new policy, Bossi explained that a war had been fought in Europe \u2013 monetary and non-military, but nevertheless a war \u2013 and Italy had lost. And when wars end, he added, treaties are written and borders are changed.How credible is a policy of this nature? In Italy, it is considered a farce, and it is possible that reactions from abroad have been even harsher: come on, just imagine how the Germans, the French, the Swiss and the Austrians would react to news that a man going by the name of Umberto Bossi wants to take over their countries.Nevertheless, putting this to one side, it would be a mistake to dismiss it all as a mere pipe-dream. The League may be full of big talk, but it knows it can take advantage of the deeply rooted opinions of a substantial proportion of the population of northern Italy. The sacrifices Mario Monti's government has asked Italians to make for the sake of stability are certainly strengthening this intolerance towards the EU.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "European Union", "World news"], "title": "Italy's Northern League: Eurosceptics with their own pan-European project"},{"date": "2012-01-26T17:36:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "8.29am: Good morning. We're back following events in Davos, where Bill Gates is currently holding forth on food security and David Cameron, fresh from Brussels, is set to take the stage at 10:30 UK time. Ed Miliband, Gordon Brown and Boris Johnson are also due to speak \u2013 it's a Britain's day at Davos.Yesterday Angela Merkel delivered the summit's opening speech and captured the news agenda by simultaneously releasing an interview to 6 European newspapers, including the Guardian. For all the latest developments on the ongoing crisis in the eurozone, have a look at my colleague Graeme Wearden and Julia Kollewe's liveblog. For everything Davos, stay tuned here.8.29am: Good morning. We're back following events in Davos, where Bill Gates is currently holding forth on food security and David Cameron, fresh from Brussels, is set to take the stage at 10:30 UK time. Ed Miliband, Gordon Brown and Boris Johnson are also due to speak \u2013 it's a Britain's day at Davos.Yesterday, Angela Merkel delivered the summit's opening speech and captured the news agenda by simultaneously releasing an interview to six European newspapers, including the Guardian. For all the latest developments on the ongoing crisis in the eurozone, have a look at my colleague Graeme Wearden and Julia Kollewe's liveblog. For everything Davos, stay tuned here.8.32am: Jill Treanor's already up and running with a fascinating insight into why the summit is so crucial to business leaders, and first mention of an intriguing concept: the southern 'silk road'.Starting off with a breakfast with HSBC, where chief executive Stuart Gulliver has given me a quick insight into how he spends his days while at Davos. About 60 meetings in 4 days \u2013 based roughly on 12 meetings a day, plus a breakfast and a lunch. He's seeing clients, central bankers etc. And from all around the world. Yesterday? Mexico, Saudi, Italy, US, Switzerland and Brazil to name a few ... it illustrates why people come to this ski resort.HSBC is doing its best to present a more upbeat view of the world. The bank's chief economist Stephen King set out the case this morning for what he calls a southern 'silk road'. The idea is that emerging markets will start to trade with each other, not just with the more developed economies. He reckons trade will develop tenfold between Asia, the Middle East and Africa which will change the world does business. He describes it as a 'return to the world as it was perhaps a thousand years ago'. What he means is that Europe will be on the periphery rather than at the centre of world trade.There will be implications for even the way cars are made \u2013 as places such as China and India demand cars, they will need to be smaller ones than those for the US market, where, to put it politely, the population has been getting heavier. There were a couple of people on the panel with King, including Sunil Kant Munjal, chairman of Hero Corporate Service, who offered the following insight: China makes a decision and implements tomorrow. India makes a decision and starts a debate about it.9.09am: More from that Bill Gates session, 'Ensuring Food Security'. Also on the panel are Jos\u00e9 Graziano da Silva of the UN's food and agriculture organisation, Swiss Re CEO Stefan Lippe and Nigerian finance minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who replaces the advertised Goodluck Jonathan (he's got a lot on his hands at the moment, with fuel protests and terrorism plunging Nigeria into civil crisis).The Bill and Melinda Gates foundation has invested millions of dollars in food security projects and the philanthropist takes a keen interest in the issue. It's something that has increasingly preoccupied policy-makers as commodity prices, including those of basic foodstuffs, have rocketed. More from Jill:'Ensuring food security' was one of the main events early in Thursday's programme in Davos. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, finance director of Nigeria, provided an interesting anecdote in a wide-ranging debate about the grain lost each year. A chief executive visiting Nigeria had said to her that he was amazed by not seeing a single cold storage truck while visiting the country. 'Now I understood the losses,' he said to her.Josette Sheeran, executive director of the United Nations World Food Programme, stated that people who don't have food have three choices \u2013 'revolt, migrate or die'. 'We need a better plan,' she said, pointing to the one in seven people who are food insecure. 70% of brain growth takes place before the age of two so deprivation of food in infants is long-lasting.Crucially Jose Graziano da Silva reckons the world's 7bn population will be adequately fed in 20 years time. 'I am confident we can do it. The problem is not supply side. The problem is access to food.'Paul Polman, chief executive of Unilever who is co-chair at this year's Davos, pointed that his company is trying to decouple growth from environmental impact. Unilever has commitment to getting all raw materials sustainably. He is also head of the B20 which meets alongside the G20 leaders. Brono Le Maire, French agriculture minister, admitted that the economic crisis in Europe could take food security off the agenda. He made it clear that he really didn't think that should happen. So has capitalism had failed food security \u2013 investing in agricultures provides good returns? Microsoft founder and now head of his foundation, Bill Gates, said: 'No-one ever said capitalism solves everything'. Stefan Lippe, chief executive of Swiss Re, said his firm was developing ways to protect investors against weather risk \u2013 that would bring in more investment.9.18am: More Gates! The excellent World Economic Forum live feed is currently broadcasting a press conference with Gates and Simon Bland. The topic is the Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which is 10 years old this month.Jill tells me that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is putting $750m in the form of a promissory note into the Global Fund. He urged contributors not to pull back on their commitments because of tough economic times. She also said that Simon Bland, who runs the fund, acknowledged that taxpayers question the value of aid during tough economic times. Even so, he is going to be asking governments for fresh support.9.32am: Former UK prime minister Gordon Brown is due to speak twice today \u2013 once in a few minutes and once at 11:30 UK time, when he'll clash with Ed Miliband, also due to speak then. He's likely to be touting his new global fund for education \u2013 an ambitious project aimed at achieving universal primary education by 2015. In a report released today, Brown warns of \"a hidden and silent emergency in education\". He says:Cameras never capture children going hungry for want of education, or lives devastated for want of learning.9.41am: The main hall is packed for Gordon Brown's session on 'Africa \u2013\u00a0From Transition to Transformation'. He's joined by Jacob Zuma, the South African president, Alpha Cond\u00e9, president of Guinea, Jakaya Kikwete, president of Tanzania, Raila Odinga, prime minister of Kenya and Meles Zenawi, the Ethiopian PM.Zenawi just accidentally called Brown \"Mr Prime Minister\".9.46am: Yesterday, we heard how bankers actually hissed Peter Mandelson during one Davos session. Today it's become clearer that the former EU trade commissioner and UK cabinet minister is attempting to distance himself from the global financial elite. Our reporter here in London, Shiv Malik, has the story: Lord Mandelson has admitted that he is no longer 'intensely relaxed about people getting filthy rich as long as they pay their taxes', given rising inequality and stagnating middle class incomes brought about by the damaging downsides of globalisation.Almost a decade and a half after making his remarks which came to characterise the Labour government's embrace of free markets and the City, Mandelson said that he was now \"much more concerned\" about inequality than when he made first made his comments to a US industrialist in California in 1998.Describing his previous his remarks as 'spontaneous and un-thoughtful', Mandelson who has held a number of government posts during his long political career but was most recently business secretary under Gordon Brown's government, said he would no longer repeat them today.Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme after the publication in Davos on Wednesday of a thinktank report on the future of Globalisation, Mandelson said, 'I don't think I would say that now. Why? Because amongst other things we've seen that globalisation has not generated the rising incomes for all,' he said.In an about turn from one of the staunchest defenders of free trade and globalisation on the left, the former European trade commissioner also made the argument for greater government control and economic intervention and believed that the UK needed to develop a 'modern industrial policy'.10.04am: Our economics editor Larry Elliott has been watching Gordon Brown's Africa session. He sends us these thoughts:Gordon Brown is chairing a Davos session on Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa has recovered quickly from the Great Recession of 2008-09, Brown says, but big challenges remain. Africa is 15% of the world's population but accounts for only 1% of global manufacturing and 1% of global inward investment.Meles Zenawi, prime minister of Ethiopia, expresses confidence that Africa will be the next \"growth pole\" of the global economy and is in the position that India was in at the start of the 1990s, before its rapid economic take-off period.Africa needs three things, he adds: higher investment in infrastructure; better skills; and to attract low-cost manufacturing plants which are looking to re-locate from Asia.Jakaya Kikwete, president of Tanzania says Africa is 'starting from very low levels of development'. He outlines six areas necessary for more rapid progress: sticking to economic reform programmes; investment in education at all levels; transforming agriculture from a position where people 'live from hand to mouth'; develop infrastructure; boost manufacturing; and integrate both regionally and internationally. 'Africa needs access to markets\", he says. 'The early conclusion of the Doha Development Agenda (trade liberalisation talks) is critical'.Sarah Brown, Gordon's wife, is tweeting proceedings:President Zuma of South Africa: optimistic about Africa's leadership and knows the future is on their own hands @WEF #davos\u2014 Sarah Brown (@SarahBrownUK) January 26, 2012President Kikwete: we are all part of global economy- that affects Africa; need to invest in education as our men & women make things happen\u2014 Sarah Brown (@SarahBrownUK) January 26, 201210.20am: David Cameron is due to take the floor at around 10:30. His speech has been widely trailed. He's due to say that eurozone leaders need to \"stop tinkering\" and \"be bolder\". But Professor Simon Evenett of St Gallen University, whom I spoke to yesterday, emails me to say:At a Davos where the private sector is imploring governments to end the eurozone crisis, any defence of last December's UK veto won't go down well.A bulldog speech by Prime Minister Cameron risks painting the UK as part of the problem. Although the prime minister's speech at Davos is another opportunity to push for further liberalisation in Europe, the UK's real priority is to protect the single market as well as the City.10.34am: Faisal Islam, Channel 4 News economics editor, tweets the following photo of delegates queueing up for Cameron: Long queue of dignitaries to hear the prime minister at davos twitter.com/faisalislam/st\u2026\u2014 Faisal Islam (@faisalislam) January 26, 201210.38am: Cameron is on. (Larry Elliott tells us \"Brown is an old pro. His session on Africa has overrun by five minutes, keeping Cameron waiting\".) Don't forget to watch for yourself on the Davos live feed. I note that Cameron's viewing figures on the feed are hovering around the 1300 mark. Merkel's were up into the 3000s.Cameron says: This is not a moment to try and pretend there is not a problem... this is a time to show the leadership that our people are quite rightly demanding. Tinkering ... simply isn't going to cut it any more. This is a time for boldness. Boldness in what we do nationally, but also boldness in what we do as a continent.10.44am: Here's the live feed again: Some more Cameron quotes: The most urgent question facing all of Europe right now is how to deal with the eurozone crisis. This is where Europe needs to be boldest of all ... We need to be honest about the overall situation. The crisis is still weighing down on business confidence and on investment ... the uncertainty in Greece has to be brought to an end ... but we also have to be honest about the long-term consequences of a single currency.And some twitter reaction (we note that Sarah Brown has fallen silent):Five EU countries are less competitive than Iran, says Cameron.He is really cosying up to the rest of Europe\u2014 Robert Peston (@Peston) January 26, 2012Cameron #davos \"We are unashamedly pro-business\" Apart from bank regulation, pay clamp down, minimum price for alcohol, North Sea oil tax...\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 2012It would appear that Cameron is getting more impatient with \u20acurozone leaders conho.me/yl4Z4r\u2014 Tim Montgomerie (@TimMontgomerie) January 26, 201211.07am: The British prime minister is tying things up with a stand-up question and answer session. Very Tory party conference \u2013 not very Davos. Yesterday evening Angela Merkel was quizzed sedately by Klaus Schwab from the comfort of an armchair.Cameron's mind ever on the PR angle as he looks for next question in audience. \"Who's next? We need a bit of gender balance here\"\u2014 FT at Davos 2012 (@FTDavos) January 26, 2012He's also alluded to a \"special treat\" at the end of the Q&A. What could it be?11.08am: That treat \u2013 it's Boris Johnson and Sebastian Coe! Lucky us.Boris has bought some Thames water \u2013 \"the champagne of waters\" with him to Davos, and turned it into an ice sculpture of Tower Bridge. All to promote the 2012 Olympic games, of course.11.25am: It's the ice sculpture Boris Johnson, mayor of London, couldn't resist telling us about at the end of David Cameron's session. My colleague Graeme Wearden points out that it's grossly geographically inaccurate and may confuse visitors to the Olympics later this year.11.42am: Larry Elliott and Jill Treanor have been working together on a news story in reaction Cameron's speech. Here's an early excerpt. They describe his address as a \"stinging critique\" of the eurozone's response to economic crisis.David Cameron urged eurozone leaders to follow Britain's 'bold and decisive' action in dealing with its crisis as he warned that the continent was facing a 'perilous' moment.Addressing the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, the prime minister said three things needed to done urgently in 2012 \u2013 'Greece, banks and firewall'. He said Greek situation needed to resolved, banks recapitalised and an agreement reached a new bailout fund for troubled eurozone countries.He set out a stinging critique of the eurozone's current response the crisis, and its long-term failure to make itself more competitive. Half of EU countries were less competitive than they were a year ago and five were less competitive than Iran. Since the start of the crisis the level of government debt per head of population in Europe had risen by \u20ac4,500, foreign direct investment had fallen by two-thirds and nearly half of EU member states had nearly one-fifth of their young people out of work.'This is not a moment to pretend there's not a problem. It's not the moment for fear of failure to hold us back,' he said.He described the timing of a proposal for a financial transaction tax as 'madness', saying it would cost 500,000 jobs in the EU and cut GDP up to \u20ac200bn.Setting out a defence of his own tough stance on cutting spending, he said 'to be cautious would have have been catastrophic'.'It is time for boldness,' he said. 'The [eurozone] crisis is still weighing down on business confidence,' said Cameron, citing the rise in bond yields in Spain, Italy and Portugal from a year ago. 11.57am: Jill Treanor's now heading to a session on the Nordic experience. Can lessons learnt by Scandinavian countries, with their high-state spending/high-quality of life model be applied globally? Ed Miliband will be joined there by the Danish PM and fellow social democrat, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Norway's trade minister and Sweden's finance minister. The Chatham House rule applies, apparently, but Jill is hoping to speak to Miliband. We'll let you know how she gets on.11.59am: And just when you thought you'd had enough of British politicians and ex-PMs strutting their stuff at Davos, Tony Blair turns up as well. Kamal Ahmed from the Sunday Telegraph tweets:At #Davos #wef philanthropy debate Tony Blair, Eric Schmidt, Sean Parker and Yuri Milner. So, small beer then...\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 2012Oh yes, and the moderator is someone called Chelsea Clinton #Davos #wef\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 201212.03pm: Oh. No Tony Blair after all. He's not the only no-show. Goodluck Jonathan, president of Nigeria, has also failed to turn up \u2013 perhaps understandably \u2013 for at least two sessions. Ah, sadly no Tony Blair. He's \"stuck in Middle East\" Probably wanted to avoid those tricky questions on his complex biz structures #Davos\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 20121.02pm: Larry Elliott's been at lunch with the mayor of London, and observes that there are some subjects he's happy to gloss over:Boris Johnson is speaking at Olympics lunch and telling everybody how safe it is. Crime is down by 10% over the past four years, murder rate down by a quarter, crime on public transport down by 30% and the tube is the safest in Europe. No mention of last summer's riots.1.13pm: The Robin Hood Tax campaign has leapt into action after David Cameron disparaged the idea of a financial transaction tax (FTT) in his Davos speech \u2013 he said its introduction would be \"simply madness\". Spokesman David Hilman said:Cameron is guilty of using dodgy statistics and bad economics to justify his opposition to an FTT that would ensure the City pays to repair the damage it has caused.Cameron has confused the interests of the Square Mile with the interests of Britain as a whole and is turning down billions that could protect schools, hospitals and jobs.1.31pm: Meet Davos man. And the occasional woman. The Davos 'Ask a Leader' video series puts you face-to-face with some of the summit's luminaries, from Mauricio Cardenas, Colombia's mining minister to novelist and poet Carmen Boullosa. Here's physicist Saul Perlmutter, talking about the history of the expansion of the universe. Quite some way from 10-year bond yields.1.44pm: Jill Treanor reports from that session with Ed Miliband:So the Nordic discussion was fascinating \u2013 the idea of equality, social security and union recognition. Under Chatham House rules there is no quoting unless the participants agree. Ed Miliband wasn't keen. But one participant Jacob Wallenberg, chairman of the big Swedish investment house Investor AB (who told me later this was his 20th Davos) was. Addressing the point about whether Nordic countries were complacent about their success, he said 'when China gets going, it's not that I'm concerned they'll pass us but that they will run us over'. He stressed this was not a political statement but one about economics.2.18pm: Reuters has produced a slightly overwhelming Davos by numbers graphic. It contains such gems as follows: it costs $689 to take a limousine from Zurich to Davos, as many delegates will, unless they take a helicopter, at $9000 for a return trip; global public debt in 2012 is $47tn, compared to $18tn in 2000; 4712 Swiss troops have been deployed to protect the summit; and Swiss socialists have built 15 protest igloos. CNN reckons that being a delegate costs, on average, $40,000 in accreditation, travel and expenses. Money well spent?2.39pm: Barclay's chief Bob Diamond has been giving interviews. He's been talking to Bloomberg in a somewhat chilly studio: \"The zero-interest rate environment in the major developed economies is certainly presenting a challenge to banking, there's no question about it.\"On regulation, he says:We know we want to make the financial system safer and sounder. But we also know the importance of driving the economy, providing opportunities for job creation ... and keeping a balance amongst the major economies so that we encourage the continued development of international banking and not a return to protectionism and Balkanisation.He's also been hanging out with Liz Clayman, of Fox business news: Barclays CEO Bob Diamond 2 FBN: \"I predict U.S. GDP will surprise 2 the upside in Q4, will b 3%.\" yfrog.com/nzeephdj\u2014 Liz Claman (@LizClaman) January 26, 20122.59pm: Associated Press's debate on democracy \u2013 Are the democratic institutions of the 20th century fit for the 21st? \u2013 is now underway. The live feed is below.Yesterday, AP asked people to submit questions to their panellists, including Tunisian politician Rachid Ghannouchi, Republican congressman David T Dreier and Pakistani foreign minister Hina Rabbani Khar.Rachid Ghannouchi says:After the collapse of the Soviet Union, a wave democracy spread across the world, but not the Arab world. The obstacle was not Islam, but outside pressure.He goes on to comment: \"I have no doubt that the Syrian revolution will succeed like all other revolutions.\"3.31pm: Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, has arrived in Davos. Those hoping for profound insights from the former French finance minister may be disappointed by her first tweet, which is about snow. Don't worry, Christine, we get your drift. Good to be back in Davos. Record snowfall here- highest in January for 69 years. World Economic Forum\u2014 Christine Lagarde (@Lagarde) January 26, 2012There are hints that another global player may be drawing near. Rupert Murdoch tweets that he's in Zurich, a mere $4500 helicopter ride away from Davos: In Zurich with the big chiefs of soccer. Amazing organization with power over most of the world's football.Now back to family and work.\u2014 Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch) January 26, 20124.19pm: The Guardian multimedia team have put together a montage of David Cameron's summit speech.In the meantime the European press have been reacting to the UK PM's address, which included harsh criticism of the response to the eurozone crisis. Der Spiegel goes with \"Cameron dismisses Merkel's financial transaction plan as 'madness'\", whereas leftwing French daily Lib\u00e9ration has \"Cameron wants more deregulation at the heart of the EU\". Rightwing Spanish daily El Mundo's headline is \"Cameron describes the Sarkozy and Rajoy's Tobin tax as 'mad'\".4.24pm: Some scratching of heads as to why Ed Miliband appears not to need a coat, despite the nearly freezing Davos weather. Tweeter Political Animal suggests one possibility, courtesy of The West Wing: @nicholaswatt Abby Bartlett: \"Why didn't Santos wear a coat?\" Jed: \"He wanted to look young & vigorous.\" \"He looked a young, vigorous fool.\"\u2014 Political Animal (@politic_animal) January 26, 20124.32pm: Felipe Calder\u00f3n, president of Mexico, is delivering a speech in the congress hall. The session, moderated by Bill Gates, is entitled \"Global economic crisis: role and challenges of the G20\".Calder\u00f3n says:The crisis is an opportunity to address once and for all the terrible misery in which many people live.4.39pm: Calder\u00f3n:If we are ever to define a new type of development model, this is the time to do it. We must move towards a green growth path ... climate change, for instance, is already affecting the quality of life in my country. We have the worst floods in the south of the country and the worst droughts in the north ever, at the same time. Taking action now will be much cheaper than taking action in the future ... Mexico will push for the G20 countries to comply with their commitments.The president adds: The new economic model will have to be one in which growth doesn't come at the expense of financial responsibility, social justice and full respect for the environment.4.45pm: Calder\u00f3n is praising the April 2009 G20 hosted by Gordon Brown in London as a model for international economic cooperation. At that meeting, world leaders agreed to pump an additional $1tn (\u00a3748bn) into the crisis-hit global economy.5.07pm: A special video message from Aung San Suu Kyi followed the Calderon session. Speaking of the democratic movement in her own country, the Burmese opposition leader said:Support us in our efforts to take the next crucial step that will enable us to bridge the gap between potential and fulfilment ... The possibility of a great transformation is in sight for our country ... Please support our endeavours to make Burma the shining representative of what can be possible.Aung San Suu Kyi explained that the work to prepare for elections has kept her away from the Davos summit, though of course the risks of her being denied re-entry to the country after leaving it are still very real.5.19pm: Stephen Harper, prime minister of Canada, is giving the final set-piece speech of the evening in the congress hall. It's interesting to compare his managerialist delivery with that of David Cameron \u2013 let alone Boris Johnson \u2013 earlier in the day. He's talking up the Canadian economy, as expected, and making assurances not to raise tax. Harper also seems to be throwing in the odd line of French in \u2013 perhaps around 20%, to match the proportion of native French speakers in Canada?5.28pm: That's just about it for today. Here's a summary of the main developments:\u2022 It was 'UK day' at Davos \u2013 or at least, it felt that way. Gordon Brown's session on Africa was followed by David Cameron in bullish form, lecturing the assembled delegates on the 'madness' of a financial transaction tax, among other things.\u2022 Peter Mandelson made clear in an interview with the Today Programme that he regretted saying Labour was 'intensely relaxed about people getting filthy rich', adding that 'globalisation has not generated the rising incomes for all'.\u2022 Bill Gates made his presence felt at the summit, with a major discussion on food security, a topic close to his heart, a press conference on the global fund against Aids, TB and malaria, and an interview with Mexican president Felipe Calder\u00f3n. \u2022 Aung Sun Suu Kyi delivered a video message in which she asked global leaders for support in her struggle to establish a more democratic Burma.Thanks for reading and for your comments below. We'll be back again tomorrow.", "tags": ["Davos", "World news", "Business", "Economic policy", "Economics", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Davos 2012: Day two, as it happened"},{"date": "2012-01-01T15:10:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Be careful what you wish for, even though the sceptics in Tory backrooms seem to have it all figured out. No euro, no zone, no ever greater union? No worries \u2013 as the alternative swills from chat to chat. We can become (key phrase) \"the Switzerland of outer Europe\". It's that globally alluring Swiss riff again. If you don't like where you are or what you are, think Basel and Bern. If you're stuck in a valley of black despair, look up at the Eiger. If you're not sure where you're going, try munching a pippin with William Tell.Long ago, in Dhaka, I sat with a triumphant Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as he described the young, free country he hoped to build. \"Bangladesh will be the Switzerland of Asia,\" he buoyantly declared. But then a bunch of army officers murdered him. And so riff moved on.Not, alas, to the nation once memorably designated by the New York Times as the emerging Switzerland of the region: ah! Afghanistan. Nor to another much mentioned contender, Nepal. No: the current Asian champion of peace and stability is Singapore, of course, duly sanctified by HSBC. The stock exchanges, and a soothingly sedated sort of society, have it.But only in Asia. Poor battered Lebanon used to be called \"the Switzerland of the Middle East\". Guinea, Lesotho and Swaziland all aspire to be known as \"the Switzerland of Africa\". Costa Rica relishes its title as the \"Switzerland of Central America\". And now the backbenchers of Britain, too, want to play that game. You can, apparently, live at the heart of Europe without being part of it. You can let the lorries of the free market use your toll roads and cream off a nice dividend. You can keep a highly inflated currency but allow your banks to take deposits from all comers (and scrabble to keep your haven status).It's all very democratic, of course, a country run by anonymous politicians that lets the technocrats steer its ferry boats, a nation of different tongues and communities that graciously allows outsiders in to sweep its roads and bake its pizzas, but gives them only the most reduced of rights. You want change and constant referendums? Learn here that referendums mean no change. It's a placid, complacent place. Switzerland has eternal peace and convenient neutrality. Switzerland defines its own national self-interest every day.But is this the future we see for Britain (or, more accurately, for England, since that's where the wish-fulfillers live)? Even as the question's asked, you can find the delusionists moving on. If not Switzerland, then somewhere bigger, more bustling and dynamic, on the peripheries of Europe? Yes, of course! Ankara boasts a growth rate of 9.6% this year so far. We can become \"the Turkey of Europe\".Turkey cold, or Turkey hot \u2013 on the borders of Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria? Turkey armed, with generals who need shuffling away to keep elected politicians safe from coups? Turkey looking to Brussels for a future \u2013 or Turkey rejected, beginning to swagger in the Middle East? Turkey, secular or Muslim?Somehow, put that way, the quest to be something else doesn't sound so alluring. We can all the play the transmogrification game: I sometimes think Britain would be best as the new Canada, with enough prosperity and shrunken profile to suit every taste. But the harsh truth in this zone of dreams is escapism, not remote reality. We can become the England of outer Europe if we want. We can stand alone, tall and proud \u2013 or shivering. But why, then, this pile of old Geneva, this load of Istanbul?We are what we are, no matter what we wish for.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 January 2011. For the avoidance of confusion, a reference to Mont Blanc was changed to the Eiger, as the latter is not only visible from Switzerland but lies within it.", "tags": ["European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "Why can't we be more like Switzerland? | Peter Preston"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:07:46Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for the 51 weeks a year when Davos is just another ski resort, Switzerland is renowned as a haven for multimillionaires in search of a quiet life \u2013 and a minimal tax bill. Lewis Hamilton and Phil Collins are among the Brits who have chosen to flee to the Alpine state to avoid the scrutiny of the Revenue.But tax havens, where few questions are asked about residents' financial affairs, have come under increasing international pressure to change their ways in recent years.The resignation of Swiss central bank governor Philipp Hildebrand earlier this month, after his wealthy wife caused controversy by betting against the Swiss franc, showed that the country has become less tolerant of the idea that the financial affairs of the super-rich should be secret.The UK and German treasuries have both recently signed agreements with the Swiss government under which their citizens will have to pay up for salting their money away in secretive accounts in Zurich or Geneva \u2013 though the European commission is currently challenging the deals, which have not yet been signed into law.Criticism of the Swiss authorities' approach intensified after a celebrated case starting in 2010, in which a whistleblower at HSBC released the financial details of scores of the bank's private clients, allowing the French, German and UK authorities to pursue them for unpaid tax.More recently, the Swiss government has proposed abolishing so-called \"lump sum taxation\", under which wealthy individuals can offer to pay a flat fee up front in exchange for avoiding any scrutiny of their financial affairs by the authorities.Swiss finance minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said last summer when the idea was announced that revenue could double, although she acknowledged that some taxpayers might decide to leave rather than submit to closer examination of their affairs. \"We have to realistically reckon with people leaving, but we do not think it will be a huge number,\" she said. However, the plan has not yet come into force.At the same time, a group of leftwing campaigners is promoting the idea of a referendum on imposing a federal inheritance tax for the first time, as well as a levy on financial gifts. The proposals are unlikely to be voted on until next year but could be enforced retrospectively to cover any gifts made from this month.However, Richard Murphy of the Tax Justice Network said it would be a mistake to see these straws in the wind as evidence that Switzerland is shrugging off its secretive status. \"It's clearly still a tax haven, and most wealthy people if they wanted to could still put their money there, no questions asked,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Davos", "Corporate governance", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Switzerland lifts the lid \u2013 ever so slightly \u2013 on its financial secrets"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:01:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Heavy snow is forecast for the high Alps this week when the global elite gathers for its annual shindig in Davos. The blizzard may cover up the architectural blemishes of the unprepossessing Swiss town, but it will be unable to hide the fault lines in the global economy.The agenda is a full one, with the mood one of caution and some trepidation. Slowing growth, financial fragility, governments teetering on the brink of insolvency and default, and clear signs of a public backlash against the excesses of the rich and powerful: all have created a sombre backdrop to the invitation-only affair.So if you are not packing your ski boots in anticipation of rubbing shoulders with Bob Diamond or George Osborne, here is your A to Z guide to the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum.A is for anti-globalisation Davos is the Glastonbury of globalisation, the event that attracts all the movers and shakers of the world economy. For one week in January it contains more billionaires per square kilometre than any place on earth and, unsurprisingly, attracts the attention of the anti-globalisation movement. This year the protests will be centred on an igloo, which will be home to Occupy the World Economic Forum. The Swiss authorities tend to take a tough line with protesters \u2013 and even innocent bystanders. Last year Andrew Clark, then Observer business editor, was arrested on a train on his way back from Davos.B is for Belvedere During the day the action in Davos is focused on the conference centre, an ugly 1970s building which has recently been modernised and extended. After hours, members of the WEF normally repair to the Belvedere, the hotel where all the best parties are held and where many of the dignitaries stay. Hotels in Davos week are eye-wateringly expensive: a bog-standard, chalet-style room costs 400-500 Swiss francs (\u00a3275-\u00a3345) a night, with a five-night minimum stay.C is for Cameron The prime minister is one of close to 40 heads of state or government expected to show up for this year's talkfest. An experienced Davos hand, Cameron first came to the event as opposition leader, but will deliver one of the keynote addresses this year. Gordon Brown and Tony Blair are also both on the list of participants.D is for Doha Each year trade ministers gather in Davos for talks aimed at breathing new life into the moribund Doha trade liberalisation talks. Each year they fail.E is for Europe This year's hot topic is the crisis in the eurozone, which is casting a shadow over the entire global economy. Expect lots of sermons from the Chinese, the Americans and the Brits about the need for Europe to \"get its act together\" and warm words from European policymakers about how the worst of the crisis is now over.F is for fondue Getting the authentic taste of Swiss cuisine in Davos is surprisingly difficult, with most of the hotels serving identical international fare. Those in the know head for the Gentiana, where George Osborne dined last year with Angel Gurr\u00eda, head of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.G is for Gates Since handing over control of Microsoft, Bill Gates has devoted himself to philanthropy and will use Davos as a platform to call for the use of innovative sources of finance, such as a financial transaction tax, to fund development.H is for Hungary The attention over the past year has been on Europe's soft southern underbelly \u2013 Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain. In the past few weeks, the crisis has spread east to the former communist country, which was badly burned by the global financial crisis. An International Monetary Fund programme is imminent and Hungary's plight will be much discussed.I is for Igwel Davos is organised around a series of themed sessions in which panels of experts give their views on the issues of the moment. Behind the scenes, world leaders are encouraged to talk more freely at \"Igwels\" \u2013 informal gatherings of world economic leaders. This is supposed to be where the business of Davos is done, although the real deal-making takes place in one-on-one clandestine meetings.J is for Johnson It is a mayoral election year in London, so Boris will be in town to bang the drum for his new airport, dish the dirt on Ken Livingstone and tell the world about how wonderful the Olympics will be. Only the mischievous would say he will be trying to upstage the prime minister.K is for Klosters A 15-minute spin down the mountain by minibus or limo, Klosters has become the overspill town for those who can't find rooms in Davos or who prefer to spend more time on the ski slopes than in the conference centre.L is for Lagarde This will be Christine Lagarde's first meeting as managing director of the International Monetary Fund. She has plenty on her to-do list: preventing the break-up of the euro, addressing the state of the global economy and making sure the fund has enough money to provide help to countries that need it.M is for Merkel Each year Davos is kicked off with a big speech by a prominent world leader and this year it is Angela Merkel's turn. Germany's pivotal role in resolving the eurozone crisis means her words will be carefully scrutinised by the financial markets.N is for non-governmental organisations There was a time in the 1990s when Davos was the exclusive preserve of politicians, business folk and academics. Development was not on the agenda and trade unionists were not permitted inside the conference centre. These days the WEF prides itself on making the event more inclusive, extending invitations to charities such as Oxfam and One, founded by Bono. The U2 singer has become a Davos fixture but will not be there this year.O is for off-piste The bread and butter of Davos are the sessions on economics, business and finance, but the WEF prides itself on its array of off-piste sessions, in which members can keep up to speed with the latest developments in neuroscience, quantum physics, astronomy, music, architecture and literature. For many participants these are the most enjoyable bits of the week.P is for Pandit Each Davos meeting has a number of co-chairs drawn from the business community, which pays royally for the privilege. Vikram Pandit, chief executive officer of Citigroup, is one of this year's six co-chairs. The others are Yasuchika Hasegawa, chief executive of Takeda Pharmaceutical; Paul Polman, Unilever's boss; Peter Voser, chief of Royal Dutch Shell; Alejandro Ram\u00edrez, boss of the Mexican cinema chain Cin\u00e9polis; and, to redress the gender balance somewhat, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer.Q is for queue Unless you are a head of state, there is no escaping the long lines to get into the conference centre \u2013 and the Belvedere \u2013 at peak times of the day. It gets quite parky in January, especially when it snows, so take a nice warm coat.R is for Roubini Back in 2007, Nouriel Roubini was one of the few economists to see the global crash coming. Dr Doom, as he has come to be known will set the tone on Wednesday in a session called The Seeds of Dystopia. Not one for the faint-hearted.S is for Schwab Klaus Schwab has been Mr Davos since founding the WEF in 1971 with the motto \"committed to improving the state of the world\". Schwab, who was born in Germany in 1938, said last week that capitalism, in its current form, \"no longer fits the world around us\".T is for trophy wives Normally accompanying American tycoons, the TWs are easy to spot in Davos. They are the ones with the highest heels, the big hair, the real fur coats and the hints of expensive cosmetic surgery.U is for United States As ever, there will be plenty of American businessmen on parade at the forum, since they like a few days' R&R in the Alps. But it is a presidential election year, so US politicians will be thin on the ground. Tim Geithner, the treasury secretary, is the biggest name on the attendance list.V is for valley Davos nestles in a valley high in the mountains. First inhabited in the middle ages, from the 19th century it became a popular destination for those suffering from tuberculosis because doctors thought the air was good for their patients \u2013 including Thomas Mann, whose novel The Magic Mountain is set in Davos.W is for women Reflecting life in the boardroom, Davos has tended to be a male-dominated affair. The WEF is promising to do better this year.X is for Zhang Xiaoqiang The deputy director of China's national development and reform commission is part of Beijing's increasingly influential Davos team. Given the growing importance of emerging countries in the global economy, there has been a subtle shift at the annual meeting. Once western leaders used to lecture developing countries: now it is the other way around.Y is for York That's his royal highness the Duke of York to you. Prince Andrew turns up in Davos every year to promote Britain's exports.Z is for Zoellick Having fallen out with Barack Obama, it appears unlikely that Robert Zoellick will seek a second term as World Bank president when his first runs out in July. Rumours have it that he will announce his decision in Davos this week.", "tags": ["Davos", "Economics", "Financial crisis", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Financial sector", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Davos guide: what you need to know about the World Economic Forum"},{"date": "2012-01-26T11:26:38Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the beginning of last December, the Northern League \u2013 having left the majority that supported the government \u2013 convened in Vicenza for what it called \"the Northern parliament\". Its leader, Umberto Bossi, then announced its new political policy. Its aim is no less than to alter the geography of Europe.Bossi unveiled a great map, coloured in by his son Renzo, that signalled the birth of a new state composed of so-called Padania (that is, the regions of Northern Italy), Switzerland, Austria, Bavaria and Savoy. Soon afterwards, to confirm the \"seriousness\" of the programme, the former minister Roberto Calderoli said that, from now on, all members of the Northern League, when they renewed their party membership, would have to swear solemnly to fight for the secession of Padania.It is not the first time, of course, that the League has spoken of secession: this has, in fact, always been its final objective, or at least its dream. However, never before has it spoken of changing not only the borders of Italy, but also of other states such as France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland.The move might sound pan-European, but the league's members are about as far as you can get from European integrationists. They have made much of their Euroscepticism over the years, and are finding now they are at the vanguard of a growing movement that encompasses much of the centre right in Italy. Italian Euroscepticism has been boosted by gathering hostility towards the single currency, which is considered to be responsible for the economic crisis; and it is particularly resentful of the most powerful European states, who are believed to be the real rulers of a union in which Italy plays the part of poor relation or even colony.In support of his new policy, Bossi explained that a war had been fought in Europe \u2013 monetary and non-military, but nevertheless a war \u2013 and Italy had lost. And when wars end, he added, treaties are written and borders are changed.How credible is a policy of this nature? In Italy, it is considered a farce, and it is possible that reactions from abroad have been even harsher: come on, just imagine how the Germans, the French, the Swiss and the Austrians would react to news that a man going by the name of Umberto Bossi wants to take over their countries.Nevertheless, putting this to one side, it would be a mistake to dismiss it all as a mere pipe-dream. The League may be full of big talk, but it knows it can take advantage of the deeply rooted opinions of a substantial proportion of the population of northern Italy. The sacrifices Mario Monti's government has asked Italians to make for the sake of stability are certainly strengthening this intolerance towards the EU.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "European Union", "World news"], "title": "Italy's Northern League: Eurosceptics with their own pan-European project"},{"date": "2012-01-26T17:36:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "8.29am: Good morning. We're back following events in Davos, where Bill Gates is currently holding forth on food security and David Cameron, fresh from Brussels, is set to take the stage at 10:30 UK time. Ed Miliband, Gordon Brown and Boris Johnson are also due to speak \u2013 it's a Britain's day at Davos.Yesterday Angela Merkel delivered the summit's opening speech and captured the news agenda by simultaneously releasing an interview to 6 European newspapers, including the Guardian. For all the latest developments on the ongoing crisis in the eurozone, have a look at my colleague Graeme Wearden and Julia Kollewe's liveblog. For everything Davos, stay tuned here.8.29am: Good morning. We're back following events in Davos, where Bill Gates is currently holding forth on food security and David Cameron, fresh from Brussels, is set to take the stage at 10:30 UK time. Ed Miliband, Gordon Brown and Boris Johnson are also due to speak \u2013 it's a Britain's day at Davos.Yesterday, Angela Merkel delivered the summit's opening speech and captured the news agenda by simultaneously releasing an interview to six European newspapers, including the Guardian. For all the latest developments on the ongoing crisis in the eurozone, have a look at my colleague Graeme Wearden and Julia Kollewe's liveblog. For everything Davos, stay tuned here.8.32am: Jill Treanor's already up and running with a fascinating insight into why the summit is so crucial to business leaders, and first mention of an intriguing concept: the southern 'silk road'.Starting off with a breakfast with HSBC, where chief executive Stuart Gulliver has given me a quick insight into how he spends his days while at Davos. About 60 meetings in 4 days \u2013 based roughly on 12 meetings a day, plus a breakfast and a lunch. He's seeing clients, central bankers etc. And from all around the world. Yesterday? Mexico, Saudi, Italy, US, Switzerland and Brazil to name a few ... it illustrates why people come to this ski resort.HSBC is doing its best to present a more upbeat view of the world. The bank's chief economist Stephen King set out the case this morning for what he calls a southern 'silk road'. The idea is that emerging markets will start to trade with each other, not just with the more developed economies. He reckons trade will develop tenfold between Asia, the Middle East and Africa which will change the world does business. He describes it as a 'return to the world as it was perhaps a thousand years ago'. What he means is that Europe will be on the periphery rather than at the centre of world trade.There will be implications for even the way cars are made \u2013 as places such as China and India demand cars, they will need to be smaller ones than those for the US market, where, to put it politely, the population has been getting heavier. There were a couple of people on the panel with King, including Sunil Kant Munjal, chairman of Hero Corporate Service, who offered the following insight: China makes a decision and implements tomorrow. India makes a decision and starts a debate about it.9.09am: More from that Bill Gates session, 'Ensuring Food Security'. Also on the panel are Jos\u00e9 Graziano da Silva of the UN's food and agriculture organisation, Swiss Re CEO Stefan Lippe and Nigerian finance minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who replaces the advertised Goodluck Jonathan (he's got a lot on his hands at the moment, with fuel protests and terrorism plunging Nigeria into civil crisis).The Bill and Melinda Gates foundation has invested millions of dollars in food security projects and the philanthropist takes a keen interest in the issue. It's something that has increasingly preoccupied policy-makers as commodity prices, including those of basic foodstuffs, have rocketed. More from Jill:'Ensuring food security' was one of the main events early in Thursday's programme in Davos. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, finance director of Nigeria, provided an interesting anecdote in a wide-ranging debate about the grain lost each year. A chief executive visiting Nigeria had said to her that he was amazed by not seeing a single cold storage truck while visiting the country. 'Now I understood the losses,' he said to her.Josette Sheeran, executive director of the United Nations World Food Programme, stated that people who don't have food have three choices \u2013 'revolt, migrate or die'. 'We need a better plan,' she said, pointing to the one in seven people who are food insecure. 70% of brain growth takes place before the age of two so deprivation of food in infants is long-lasting.Crucially Jose Graziano da Silva reckons the world's 7bn population will be adequately fed in 20 years time. 'I am confident we can do it. The problem is not supply side. The problem is access to food.'Paul Polman, chief executive of Unilever who is co-chair at this year's Davos, pointed that his company is trying to decouple growth from environmental impact. Unilever has commitment to getting all raw materials sustainably. He is also head of the B20 which meets alongside the G20 leaders. Brono Le Maire, French agriculture minister, admitted that the economic crisis in Europe could take food security off the agenda. He made it clear that he really didn't think that should happen. So has capitalism had failed food security \u2013 investing in agricultures provides good returns? Microsoft founder and now head of his foundation, Bill Gates, said: 'No-one ever said capitalism solves everything'. Stefan Lippe, chief executive of Swiss Re, said his firm was developing ways to protect investors against weather risk \u2013 that would bring in more investment.9.18am: More Gates! The excellent World Economic Forum live feed is currently broadcasting a press conference with Gates and Simon Bland. The topic is the Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which is 10 years old this month.Jill tells me that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is putting $750m in the form of a promissory note into the Global Fund. He urged contributors not to pull back on their commitments because of tough economic times. She also said that Simon Bland, who runs the fund, acknowledged that taxpayers question the value of aid during tough economic times. Even so, he is going to be asking governments for fresh support.9.32am: Former UK prime minister Gordon Brown is due to speak twice today \u2013 once in a few minutes and once at 11:30 UK time, when he'll clash with Ed Miliband, also due to speak then. He's likely to be touting his new global fund for education \u2013 an ambitious project aimed at achieving universal primary education by 2015. In a report released today, Brown warns of \"a hidden and silent emergency in education\". He says:Cameras never capture children going hungry for want of education, or lives devastated for want of learning.9.41am: The main hall is packed for Gordon Brown's session on 'Africa \u2013\u00a0From Transition to Transformation'. He's joined by Jacob Zuma, the South African president, Alpha Cond\u00e9, president of Guinea, Jakaya Kikwete, president of Tanzania, Raila Odinga, prime minister of Kenya and Meles Zenawi, the Ethiopian PM.Zenawi just accidentally called Brown \"Mr Prime Minister\".9.46am: Yesterday, we heard how bankers actually hissed Peter Mandelson during one Davos session. Today it's become clearer that the former EU trade commissioner and UK cabinet minister is attempting to distance himself from the global financial elite. Our reporter here in London, Shiv Malik, has the story: Lord Mandelson has admitted that he is no longer 'intensely relaxed about people getting filthy rich as long as they pay their taxes', given rising inequality and stagnating middle class incomes brought about by the damaging downsides of globalisation.Almost a decade and a half after making his remarks which came to characterise the Labour government's embrace of free markets and the City, Mandelson said that he was now \"much more concerned\" about inequality than when he made first made his comments to a US industrialist in California in 1998.Describing his previous his remarks as 'spontaneous and un-thoughtful', Mandelson who has held a number of government posts during his long political career but was most recently business secretary under Gordon Brown's government, said he would no longer repeat them today.Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme after the publication in Davos on Wednesday of a thinktank report on the future of Globalisation, Mandelson said, 'I don't think I would say that now. Why? Because amongst other things we've seen that globalisation has not generated the rising incomes for all,' he said.In an about turn from one of the staunchest defenders of free trade and globalisation on the left, the former European trade commissioner also made the argument for greater government control and economic intervention and believed that the UK needed to develop a 'modern industrial policy'.10.04am: Our economics editor Larry Elliott has been watching Gordon Brown's Africa session. He sends us these thoughts:Gordon Brown is chairing a Davos session on Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa has recovered quickly from the Great Recession of 2008-09, Brown says, but big challenges remain. Africa is 15% of the world's population but accounts for only 1% of global manufacturing and 1% of global inward investment.Meles Zenawi, prime minister of Ethiopia, expresses confidence that Africa will be the next \"growth pole\" of the global economy and is in the position that India was in at the start of the 1990s, before its rapid economic take-off period.Africa needs three things, he adds: higher investment in infrastructure; better skills; and to attract low-cost manufacturing plants which are looking to re-locate from Asia.Jakaya Kikwete, president of Tanzania says Africa is 'starting from very low levels of development'. He outlines six areas necessary for more rapid progress: sticking to economic reform programmes; investment in education at all levels; transforming agriculture from a position where people 'live from hand to mouth'; develop infrastructure; boost manufacturing; and integrate both regionally and internationally. 'Africa needs access to markets\", he says. 'The early conclusion of the Doha Development Agenda (trade liberalisation talks) is critical'.Sarah Brown, Gordon's wife, is tweeting proceedings:President Zuma of South Africa: optimistic about Africa's leadership and knows the future is on their own hands @WEF #davos\u2014 Sarah Brown (@SarahBrownUK) January 26, 2012President Kikwete: we are all part of global economy- that affects Africa; need to invest in education as our men & women make things happen\u2014 Sarah Brown (@SarahBrownUK) January 26, 201210.20am: David Cameron is due to take the floor at around 10:30. His speech has been widely trailed. He's due to say that eurozone leaders need to \"stop tinkering\" and \"be bolder\". But Professor Simon Evenett of St Gallen University, whom I spoke to yesterday, emails me to say:At a Davos where the private sector is imploring governments to end the eurozone crisis, any defence of last December's UK veto won't go down well.A bulldog speech by Prime Minister Cameron risks painting the UK as part of the problem. Although the prime minister's speech at Davos is another opportunity to push for further liberalisation in Europe, the UK's real priority is to protect the single market as well as the City.10.34am: Faisal Islam, Channel 4 News economics editor, tweets the following photo of delegates queueing up for Cameron: Long queue of dignitaries to hear the prime minister at davos twitter.com/faisalislam/st\u2026\u2014 Faisal Islam (@faisalislam) January 26, 201210.38am: Cameron is on. (Larry Elliott tells us \"Brown is an old pro. His session on Africa has overrun by five minutes, keeping Cameron waiting\".) Don't forget to watch for yourself on the Davos live feed. I note that Cameron's viewing figures on the feed are hovering around the 1300 mark. Merkel's were up into the 3000s.Cameron says: This is not a moment to try and pretend there is not a problem... this is a time to show the leadership that our people are quite rightly demanding. Tinkering ... simply isn't going to cut it any more. This is a time for boldness. Boldness in what we do nationally, but also boldness in what we do as a continent.10.44am: Here's the live feed again: Some more Cameron quotes: The most urgent question facing all of Europe right now is how to deal with the eurozone crisis. This is where Europe needs to be boldest of all ... We need to be honest about the overall situation. The crisis is still weighing down on business confidence and on investment ... the uncertainty in Greece has to be brought to an end ... but we also have to be honest about the long-term consequences of a single currency.And some twitter reaction (we note that Sarah Brown has fallen silent):Five EU countries are less competitive than Iran, says Cameron.He is really cosying up to the rest of Europe\u2014 Robert Peston (@Peston) January 26, 2012Cameron #davos \"We are unashamedly pro-business\" Apart from bank regulation, pay clamp down, minimum price for alcohol, North Sea oil tax...\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 2012It would appear that Cameron is getting more impatient with \u20acurozone leaders conho.me/yl4Z4r\u2014 Tim Montgomerie (@TimMontgomerie) January 26, 201211.07am: The British prime minister is tying things up with a stand-up question and answer session. Very Tory party conference \u2013 not very Davos. Yesterday evening Angela Merkel was quizzed sedately by Klaus Schwab from the comfort of an armchair.Cameron's mind ever on the PR angle as he looks for next question in audience. \"Who's next? We need a bit of gender balance here\"\u2014 FT at Davos 2012 (@FTDavos) January 26, 2012He's also alluded to a \"special treat\" at the end of the Q&A. What could it be?11.08am: That treat \u2013 it's Boris Johnson and Sebastian Coe! Lucky us.Boris has bought some Thames water \u2013 \"the champagne of waters\" with him to Davos, and turned it into an ice sculpture of Tower Bridge. All to promote the 2012 Olympic games, of course.11.25am: It's the ice sculpture Boris Johnson, mayor of London, couldn't resist telling us about at the end of David Cameron's session. My colleague Graeme Wearden points out that it's grossly geographically inaccurate and may confuse visitors to the Olympics later this year.11.42am: Larry Elliott and Jill Treanor have been working together on a news story in reaction Cameron's speech. Here's an early excerpt. They describe his address as a \"stinging critique\" of the eurozone's response to economic crisis.David Cameron urged eurozone leaders to follow Britain's 'bold and decisive' action in dealing with its crisis as he warned that the continent was facing a 'perilous' moment.Addressing the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, the prime minister said three things needed to done urgently in 2012 \u2013 'Greece, banks and firewall'. He said Greek situation needed to resolved, banks recapitalised and an agreement reached a new bailout fund for troubled eurozone countries.He set out a stinging critique of the eurozone's current response the crisis, and its long-term failure to make itself more competitive. Half of EU countries were less competitive than they were a year ago and five were less competitive than Iran. Since the start of the crisis the level of government debt per head of population in Europe had risen by \u20ac4,500, foreign direct investment had fallen by two-thirds and nearly half of EU member states had nearly one-fifth of their young people out of work.'This is not a moment to pretend there's not a problem. It's not the moment for fear of failure to hold us back,' he said.He described the timing of a proposal for a financial transaction tax as 'madness', saying it would cost 500,000 jobs in the EU and cut GDP up to \u20ac200bn.Setting out a defence of his own tough stance on cutting spending, he said 'to be cautious would have have been catastrophic'.'It is time for boldness,' he said. 'The [eurozone] crisis is still weighing down on business confidence,' said Cameron, citing the rise in bond yields in Spain, Italy and Portugal from a year ago. 11.57am: Jill Treanor's now heading to a session on the Nordic experience. Can lessons learnt by Scandinavian countries, with their high-state spending/high-quality of life model be applied globally? Ed Miliband will be joined there by the Danish PM and fellow social democrat, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Norway's trade minister and Sweden's finance minister. The Chatham House rule applies, apparently, but Jill is hoping to speak to Miliband. We'll let you know how she gets on.11.59am: And just when you thought you'd had enough of British politicians and ex-PMs strutting their stuff at Davos, Tony Blair turns up as well. Kamal Ahmed from the Sunday Telegraph tweets:At #Davos #wef philanthropy debate Tony Blair, Eric Schmidt, Sean Parker and Yuri Milner. So, small beer then...\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 2012Oh yes, and the moderator is someone called Chelsea Clinton #Davos #wef\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 201212.03pm: Oh. No Tony Blair after all. He's not the only no-show. Goodluck Jonathan, president of Nigeria, has also failed to turn up \u2013 perhaps understandably \u2013 for at least two sessions. Ah, sadly no Tony Blair. He's \"stuck in Middle East\" Probably wanted to avoid those tricky questions on his complex biz structures #Davos\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 20121.02pm: Larry Elliott's been at lunch with the mayor of London, and observes that there are some subjects he's happy to gloss over:Boris Johnson is speaking at Olympics lunch and telling everybody how safe it is. Crime is down by 10% over the past four years, murder rate down by a quarter, crime on public transport down by 30% and the tube is the safest in Europe. No mention of last summer's riots.1.13pm: The Robin Hood Tax campaign has leapt into action after David Cameron disparaged the idea of a financial transaction tax (FTT) in his Davos speech \u2013 he said its introduction would be \"simply madness\". Spokesman David Hilman said:Cameron is guilty of using dodgy statistics and bad economics to justify his opposition to an FTT that would ensure the City pays to repair the damage it has caused.Cameron has confused the interests of the Square Mile with the interests of Britain as a whole and is turning down billions that could protect schools, hospitals and jobs.1.31pm: Meet Davos man. And the occasional woman. The Davos 'Ask a Leader' video series puts you face-to-face with some of the summit's luminaries, from Mauricio Cardenas, Colombia's mining minister to novelist and poet Carmen Boullosa. Here's physicist Saul Perlmutter, talking about the history of the expansion of the universe. Quite some way from 10-year bond yields.1.44pm: Jill Treanor reports from that session with Ed Miliband:So the Nordic discussion was fascinating \u2013 the idea of equality, social security and union recognition. Under Chatham House rules there is no quoting unless the participants agree. Ed Miliband wasn't keen. But one participant Jacob Wallenberg, chairman of the big Swedish investment house Investor AB (who told me later this was his 20th Davos) was. Addressing the point about whether Nordic countries were complacent about their success, he said 'when China gets going, it's not that I'm concerned they'll pass us but that they will run us over'. He stressed this was not a political statement but one about economics.2.18pm: Reuters has produced a slightly overwhelming Davos by numbers graphic. It contains such gems as follows: it costs $689 to take a limousine from Zurich to Davos, as many delegates will, unless they take a helicopter, at $9000 for a return trip; global public debt in 2012 is $47tn, compared to $18tn in 2000; 4712 Swiss troops have been deployed to protect the summit; and Swiss socialists have built 15 protest igloos. CNN reckons that being a delegate costs, on average, $40,000 in accreditation, travel and expenses. Money well spent?2.39pm: Barclay's chief Bob Diamond has been giving interviews. He's been talking to Bloomberg in a somewhat chilly studio: \"The zero-interest rate environment in the major developed economies is certainly presenting a challenge to banking, there's no question about it.\"On regulation, he says:We know we want to make the financial system safer and sounder. But we also know the importance of driving the economy, providing opportunities for job creation ... and keeping a balance amongst the major economies so that we encourage the continued development of international banking and not a return to protectionism and Balkanisation.He's also been hanging out with Liz Clayman, of Fox business news: Barclays CEO Bob Diamond 2 FBN: \"I predict U.S. GDP will surprise 2 the upside in Q4, will b 3%.\" yfrog.com/nzeephdj\u2014 Liz Claman (@LizClaman) January 26, 20122.59pm: Associated Press's debate on democracy \u2013 Are the democratic institutions of the 20th century fit for the 21st? \u2013 is now underway. The live feed is below.Yesterday, AP asked people to submit questions to their panellists, including Tunisian politician Rachid Ghannouchi, Republican congressman David T Dreier and Pakistani foreign minister Hina Rabbani Khar.Rachid Ghannouchi says:After the collapse of the Soviet Union, a wave democracy spread across the world, but not the Arab world. The obstacle was not Islam, but outside pressure.He goes on to comment: \"I have no doubt that the Syrian revolution will succeed like all other revolutions.\"3.31pm: Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, has arrived in Davos. Those hoping for profound insights from the former French finance minister may be disappointed by her first tweet, which is about snow. Don't worry, Christine, we get your drift. Good to be back in Davos. Record snowfall here- highest in January for 69 years. World Economic Forum\u2014 Christine Lagarde (@Lagarde) January 26, 2012There are hints that another global player may be drawing near. Rupert Murdoch tweets that he's in Zurich, a mere $4500 helicopter ride away from Davos: In Zurich with the big chiefs of soccer. Amazing organization with power over most of the world's football.Now back to family and work.\u2014 Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch) January 26, 20124.19pm: The Guardian multimedia team have put together a montage of David Cameron's summit speech.In the meantime the European press have been reacting to the UK PM's address, which included harsh criticism of the response to the eurozone crisis. Der Spiegel goes with \"Cameron dismisses Merkel's financial transaction plan as 'madness'\", whereas leftwing French daily Lib\u00e9ration has \"Cameron wants more deregulation at the heart of the EU\". Rightwing Spanish daily El Mundo's headline is \"Cameron describes the Sarkozy and Rajoy's Tobin tax as 'mad'\".4.24pm: Some scratching of heads as to why Ed Miliband appears not to need a coat, despite the nearly freezing Davos weather. Tweeter Political Animal suggests one possibility, courtesy of The West Wing: @nicholaswatt Abby Bartlett: \"Why didn't Santos wear a coat?\" Jed: \"He wanted to look young & vigorous.\" \"He looked a young, vigorous fool.\"\u2014 Political Animal (@politic_animal) January 26, 20124.32pm: Felipe Calder\u00f3n, president of Mexico, is delivering a speech in the congress hall. The session, moderated by Bill Gates, is entitled \"Global economic crisis: role and challenges of the G20\".Calder\u00f3n says:The crisis is an opportunity to address once and for all the terrible misery in which many people live.4.39pm: Calder\u00f3n:If we are ever to define a new type of development model, this is the time to do it. We must move towards a green growth path ... climate change, for instance, is already affecting the quality of life in my country. We have the worst floods in the south of the country and the worst droughts in the north ever, at the same time. Taking action now will be much cheaper than taking action in the future ... Mexico will push for the G20 countries to comply with their commitments.The president adds: The new economic model will have to be one in which growth doesn't come at the expense of financial responsibility, social justice and full respect for the environment.4.45pm: Calder\u00f3n is praising the April 2009 G20 hosted by Gordon Brown in London as a model for international economic cooperation. At that meeting, world leaders agreed to pump an additional $1tn (\u00a3748bn) into the crisis-hit global economy.5.07pm: A special video message from Aung San Suu Kyi followed the Calderon session. Speaking of the democratic movement in her own country, the Burmese opposition leader said:Support us in our efforts to take the next crucial step that will enable us to bridge the gap between potential and fulfilment ... The possibility of a great transformation is in sight for our country ... Please support our endeavours to make Burma the shining representative of what can be possible.Aung San Suu Kyi explained that the work to prepare for elections has kept her away from the Davos summit, though of course the risks of her being denied re-entry to the country after leaving it are still very real.5.19pm: Stephen Harper, prime minister of Canada, is giving the final set-piece speech of the evening in the congress hall. It's interesting to compare his managerialist delivery with that of David Cameron \u2013 let alone Boris Johnson \u2013 earlier in the day. He's talking up the Canadian economy, as expected, and making assurances not to raise tax. Harper also seems to be throwing in the odd line of French in \u2013 perhaps around 20%, to match the proportion of native French speakers in Canada?5.28pm: That's just about it for today. Here's a summary of the main developments:\u2022 It was 'UK day' at Davos \u2013 or at least, it felt that way. Gordon Brown's session on Africa was followed by David Cameron in bullish form, lecturing the assembled delegates on the 'madness' of a financial transaction tax, among other things.\u2022 Peter Mandelson made clear in an interview with the Today Programme that he regretted saying Labour was 'intensely relaxed about people getting filthy rich', adding that 'globalisation has not generated the rising incomes for all'.\u2022 Bill Gates made his presence felt at the summit, with a major discussion on food security, a topic close to his heart, a press conference on the global fund against Aids, TB and malaria, and an interview with Mexican president Felipe Calder\u00f3n. \u2022 Aung Sun Suu Kyi delivered a video message in which she asked global leaders for support in her struggle to establish a more democratic Burma.Thanks for reading and for your comments below. We'll be back again tomorrow.", "tags": ["Davos", "World news", "Business", "Economic policy", "Economics", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Davos 2012: Day two, as it happened"},{"date": "2012-01-04T19:48:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's central bank was embroiled in an insider trading scandal after bank chief Philipp Hildebrand was accused of speculating on currency transactions only weeks before he instituted dramatic policy changes that shifted prices in his favour.The accusations, which have rocked the Swiss banking industry, were made by Swiss weekly newspaper Die Weltwoche in a statement before its Thursday publication. It said that previous reports that Hildebrand's wife was responsible for the foreign exchange transactions were misplaced and it was the bank chief who was behind the purchase and selling of currency that triggered an investigation by the Swiss National Bank (SNB).The bank chairman also made several other dollar and euro transactions on the foreign exchange market between March and October last year, according to Die Weltwoche, which is close to the far-right Swiss People's Party (SVP).Hildebrand has come under sustained attack from the SVP and its vice-president Christoph Blocher following the bank chief's efforts to bring down the value of the Swiss franc against the dollar and the euro.The SNB shocked foreign exchange markets last September when it imposed a cap on the value of the franc against the euro to stop the currency soaring and thereby hurting Swiss exporters' earnings.The Swiss weekly claimed that in March alone, Hildebrand bought US dollars worth SFr1.1m, saying it had access to extracts from the Hildebrands' banking documents. The SNB refused to comment.The bank that allegedly handled the transactions, Banque Sarasin, said an employee had leaked client information by transmitting banking details to a lawyer close to the SVP. It said the member of staff had left the bank and could face prosecution.Die Weltwoche said the same employee had lodged a complaint against Hildebrand for alleged insider trading. \"We have all the bank statements showing the relevant transactions, plus a verbal assurance from a bank employee confirming that it was Hildebrand personally \u2013 not his wife \u2013 who ordered the transactions,\" Die Weltwoche's deputy editor-in-chief, Philipp Gut, told the Associated Press in a telephone interview on Wednesday.According to the newspaper, Hildebrand bought more than $500,000 in two transactions dated 15 August, which he then resold in September \u2013 making a profit of SFr75,000 (\u00a352,000).On 15 August the dollar was worth 0.79 francs, against 0.92 francs on 4 October.\"It's a classic forex [foreign exchange] speculation,\" Gut said. \"The only option for Hildebrand is to step down.\"The Zurich-based weekly said it had obtained bank statements showing that he was the one who had bought large amounts of dollars before selling them at a profit.The central bank said in December that an independent investigation into the Hildebrand couple's transactions found they complied with previously agreed ethical standards.The probe was reportedly launched after SVP figurehead Christoph Blocher went to then president Micheline Calmy-Rey with extracts of banking documents.Blocher, a billionaire, has so far refused to comment. A critic of SNB policy under Hildebrand, he is also a defender of Switzerland's banking secrecy laws.Three weeks earlier the bank chief's wife, Kashya Hildebrand, who runs an art gallery in Zurich, said she bought dollars due to the fact that they had \"hit a very low level and become ridiculously cheap\".In a written statement to SF, the Swiss television network, Hildebrand said she had always followed the foreign exchange market and had worked in the banking sector for 15 years between 1984 and 1999 before moving into art.", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Swiss franc", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking"], "title": "Switzerland's central bank chief accused of insider trading"},{"date": "2012-01-01T15:10:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Be careful what you wish for, even though the sceptics in Tory backrooms seem to have it all figured out. No euro, no zone, no ever greater union? No worries \u2013 as the alternative swills from chat to chat. We can become (key phrase) \"the Switzerland of outer Europe\". It's that globally alluring Swiss riff again. If you don't like where you are or what you are, think Basel and Bern. If you're stuck in a valley of black despair, look up at the Eiger. If you're not sure where you're going, try munching a pippin with William Tell.Long ago, in Dhaka, I sat with a triumphant Sheikh Mujibur Rahman as he described the young, free country he hoped to build. \"Bangladesh will be the Switzerland of Asia,\" he buoyantly declared. But then a bunch of army officers murdered him. And so riff moved on.Not, alas, to the nation once memorably designated by the New York Times as the emerging Switzerland of the region: ah! Afghanistan. Nor to another much mentioned contender, Nepal. No: the current Asian champion of peace and stability is Singapore, of course, duly sanctified by HSBC. The stock exchanges, and a soothingly sedated sort of society, have it.But only in Asia. Poor battered Lebanon used to be called \"the Switzerland of the Middle East\". Guinea, Lesotho and Swaziland all aspire to be known as \"the Switzerland of Africa\". Costa Rica relishes its title as the \"Switzerland of Central America\". And now the backbenchers of Britain, too, want to play that game. You can, apparently, live at the heart of Europe without being part of it. You can let the lorries of the free market use your toll roads and cream off a nice dividend. You can keep a highly inflated currency but allow your banks to take deposits from all comers (and scrabble to keep your haven status).It's all very democratic, of course, a country run by anonymous politicians that lets the technocrats steer its ferry boats, a nation of different tongues and communities that graciously allows outsiders in to sweep its roads and bake its pizzas, but gives them only the most reduced of rights. You want change and constant referendums? Learn here that referendums mean no change. It's a placid, complacent place. Switzerland has eternal peace and convenient neutrality. Switzerland defines its own national self-interest every day.But is this the future we see for Britain (or, more accurately, for England, since that's where the wish-fulfillers live)? Even as the question's asked, you can find the delusionists moving on. If not Switzerland, then somewhere bigger, more bustling and dynamic, on the peripheries of Europe? Yes, of course! Ankara boasts a growth rate of 9.6% this year so far. We can become \"the Turkey of Europe\".Turkey cold, or Turkey hot \u2013 on the borders of Iraqi Kurdistan and Syria? Turkey armed, with generals who need shuffling away to keep elected politicians safe from coups? Turkey looking to Brussels for a future \u2013 or Turkey rejected, beginning to swagger in the Middle East? Turkey, secular or Muslim?Somehow, put that way, the quest to be something else doesn't sound so alluring. We can all the play the transmogrification game: I sometimes think Britain would be best as the new Canada, with enough prosperity and shrunken profile to suit every taste. But the harsh truth in this zone of dreams is escapism, not remote reality. We can become the England of outer Europe if we want. We can stand alone, tall and proud \u2013 or shivering. But why, then, this pile of old Geneva, this load of Istanbul?We are what we are, no matter what we wish for.\u2022 This article was amended on 2 January 2011. For the avoidance of confusion, a reference to Mont Blanc was changed to the Eiger, as the latter is not only visible from Switzerland but lies within it.", "tags": ["European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Conservatives", "Politics"], "title": "Why can't we be more like Switzerland? | Peter Preston"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:07:46Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Even for the 51 weeks a year when Davos is just another ski resort, Switzerland is renowned as a haven for multimillionaires in search of a quiet life \u2013 and a minimal tax bill. Lewis Hamilton and Phil Collins are among the Brits who have chosen to flee to the Alpine state to avoid the scrutiny of the Revenue.But tax havens, where few questions are asked about residents' financial affairs, have come under increasing international pressure to change their ways in recent years.The resignation of Swiss central bank governor Philipp Hildebrand earlier this month, after his wealthy wife caused controversy by betting against the Swiss franc, showed that the country has become less tolerant of the idea that the financial affairs of the super-rich should be secret.The UK and German treasuries have both recently signed agreements with the Swiss government under which their citizens will have to pay up for salting their money away in secretive accounts in Zurich or Geneva \u2013 though the European commission is currently challenging the deals, which have not yet been signed into law.Criticism of the Swiss authorities' approach intensified after a celebrated case starting in 2010, in which a whistleblower at HSBC released the financial details of scores of the bank's private clients, allowing the French, German and UK authorities to pursue them for unpaid tax.More recently, the Swiss government has proposed abolishing so-called \"lump sum taxation\", under which wealthy individuals can offer to pay a flat fee up front in exchange for avoiding any scrutiny of their financial affairs by the authorities.Swiss finance minister Eveline Widmer-Schlumpf said last summer when the idea was announced that revenue could double, although she acknowledged that some taxpayers might decide to leave rather than submit to closer examination of their affairs. \"We have to realistically reckon with people leaving, but we do not think it will be a huge number,\" she said. However, the plan has not yet come into force.At the same time, a group of leftwing campaigners is promoting the idea of a referendum on imposing a federal inheritance tax for the first time, as well as a levy on financial gifts. The proposals are unlikely to be voted on until next year but could be enforced retrospectively to cover any gifts made from this month.However, Richard Murphy of the Tax Justice Network said it would be a mistake to see these straws in the wind as evidence that Switzerland is shrugging off its secretive status. \"It's clearly still a tax haven, and most wealthy people if they wanted to could still put their money there, no questions asked,\" he said.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "Davos", "Corporate governance", "Business", "Europe", "World news", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Switzerland lifts the lid \u2013 ever so slightly \u2013 on its financial secrets"},{"date": "2012-01-22T00:01:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Heavy snow is forecast for the high Alps this week when the global elite gathers for its annual shindig in Davos. The blizzard may cover up the architectural blemishes of the unprepossessing Swiss town, but it will be unable to hide the fault lines in the global economy.The agenda is a full one, with the mood one of caution and some trepidation. Slowing growth, financial fragility, governments teetering on the brink of insolvency and default, and clear signs of a public backlash against the excesses of the rich and powerful: all have created a sombre backdrop to the invitation-only affair.So if you are not packing your ski boots in anticipation of rubbing shoulders with Bob Diamond or George Osborne, here is your A to Z guide to the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum.A is for anti-globalisation Davos is the Glastonbury of globalisation, the event that attracts all the movers and shakers of the world economy. For one week in January it contains more billionaires per square kilometre than any place on earth and, unsurprisingly, attracts the attention of the anti-globalisation movement. This year the protests will be centred on an igloo, which will be home to Occupy the World Economic Forum. The Swiss authorities tend to take a tough line with protesters \u2013 and even innocent bystanders. Last year Andrew Clark, then Observer business editor, was arrested on a train on his way back from Davos.B is for Belvedere During the day the action in Davos is focused on the conference centre, an ugly 1970s building which has recently been modernised and extended. After hours, members of the WEF normally repair to the Belvedere, the hotel where all the best parties are held and where many of the dignitaries stay. Hotels in Davos week are eye-wateringly expensive: a bog-standard, chalet-style room costs 400-500 Swiss francs (\u00a3275-\u00a3345) a night, with a five-night minimum stay.C is for Cameron The prime minister is one of close to 40 heads of state or government expected to show up for this year's talkfest. An experienced Davos hand, Cameron first came to the event as opposition leader, but will deliver one of the keynote addresses this year. Gordon Brown and Tony Blair are also both on the list of participants.D is for Doha Each year trade ministers gather in Davos for talks aimed at breathing new life into the moribund Doha trade liberalisation talks. Each year they fail.E is for Europe This year's hot topic is the crisis in the eurozone, which is casting a shadow over the entire global economy. Expect lots of sermons from the Chinese, the Americans and the Brits about the need for Europe to \"get its act together\" and warm words from European policymakers about how the worst of the crisis is now over.F is for fondue Getting the authentic taste of Swiss cuisine in Davos is surprisingly difficult, with most of the hotels serving identical international fare. Those in the know head for the Gentiana, where George Osborne dined last year with Angel Gurr\u00eda, head of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development.G is for Gates Since handing over control of Microsoft, Bill Gates has devoted himself to philanthropy and will use Davos as a platform to call for the use of innovative sources of finance, such as a financial transaction tax, to fund development.H is for Hungary The attention over the past year has been on Europe's soft southern underbelly \u2013 Greece, Portugal, Italy and Spain. In the past few weeks, the crisis has spread east to the former communist country, which was badly burned by the global financial crisis. An International Monetary Fund programme is imminent and Hungary's plight will be much discussed.I is for Igwel Davos is organised around a series of themed sessions in which panels of experts give their views on the issues of the moment. Behind the scenes, world leaders are encouraged to talk more freely at \"Igwels\" \u2013 informal gatherings of world economic leaders. This is supposed to be where the business of Davos is done, although the real deal-making takes place in one-on-one clandestine meetings.J is for Johnson It is a mayoral election year in London, so Boris will be in town to bang the drum for his new airport, dish the dirt on Ken Livingstone and tell the world about how wonderful the Olympics will be. Only the mischievous would say he will be trying to upstage the prime minister.K is for Klosters A 15-minute spin down the mountain by minibus or limo, Klosters has become the overspill town for those who can't find rooms in Davos or who prefer to spend more time on the ski slopes than in the conference centre.L is for Lagarde This will be Christine Lagarde's first meeting as managing director of the International Monetary Fund. She has plenty on her to-do list: preventing the break-up of the euro, addressing the state of the global economy and making sure the fund has enough money to provide help to countries that need it.M is for Merkel Each year Davos is kicked off with a big speech by a prominent world leader and this year it is Angela Merkel's turn. Germany's pivotal role in resolving the eurozone crisis means her words will be carefully scrutinised by the financial markets.N is for non-governmental organisations There was a time in the 1990s when Davos was the exclusive preserve of politicians, business folk and academics. Development was not on the agenda and trade unionists were not permitted inside the conference centre. These days the WEF prides itself on making the event more inclusive, extending invitations to charities such as Oxfam and One, founded by Bono. The U2 singer has become a Davos fixture but will not be there this year.O is for off-piste The bread and butter of Davos are the sessions on economics, business and finance, but the WEF prides itself on its array of off-piste sessions, in which members can keep up to speed with the latest developments in neuroscience, quantum physics, astronomy, music, architecture and literature. For many participants these are the most enjoyable bits of the week.P is for Pandit Each Davos meeting has a number of co-chairs drawn from the business community, which pays royally for the privilege. Vikram Pandit, chief executive officer of Citigroup, is one of this year's six co-chairs. The others are Yasuchika Hasegawa, chief executive of Takeda Pharmaceutical; Paul Polman, Unilever's boss; Peter Voser, chief of Royal Dutch Shell; Alejandro Ram\u00edrez, boss of the Mexican cinema chain Cin\u00e9polis; and, to redress the gender balance somewhat, Sheryl Sandberg, Facebook's chief operating officer.Q is for queue Unless you are a head of state, there is no escaping the long lines to get into the conference centre \u2013 and the Belvedere \u2013 at peak times of the day. It gets quite parky in January, especially when it snows, so take a nice warm coat.R is for Roubini Back in 2007, Nouriel Roubini was one of the few economists to see the global crash coming. Dr Doom, as he has come to be known will set the tone on Wednesday in a session called The Seeds of Dystopia. Not one for the faint-hearted.S is for Schwab Klaus Schwab has been Mr Davos since founding the WEF in 1971 with the motto \"committed to improving the state of the world\". Schwab, who was born in Germany in 1938, said last week that capitalism, in its current form, \"no longer fits the world around us\".T is for trophy wives Normally accompanying American tycoons, the TWs are easy to spot in Davos. They are the ones with the highest heels, the big hair, the real fur coats and the hints of expensive cosmetic surgery.U is for United States As ever, there will be plenty of American businessmen on parade at the forum, since they like a few days' R&R in the Alps. But it is a presidential election year, so US politicians will be thin on the ground. Tim Geithner, the treasury secretary, is the biggest name on the attendance list.V is for valley Davos nestles in a valley high in the mountains. First inhabited in the middle ages, from the 19th century it became a popular destination for those suffering from tuberculosis because doctors thought the air was good for their patients \u2013 including Thomas Mann, whose novel The Magic Mountain is set in Davos.W is for women Reflecting life in the boardroom, Davos has tended to be a male-dominated affair. The WEF is promising to do better this year.X is for Zhang Xiaoqiang The deputy director of China's national development and reform commission is part of Beijing's increasingly influential Davos team. Given the growing importance of emerging countries in the global economy, there has been a subtle shift at the annual meeting. Once western leaders used to lecture developing countries: now it is the other way around.Y is for York That's his royal highness the Duke of York to you. Prince Andrew turns up in Davos every year to promote Britain's exports.Z is for Zoellick Having fallen out with Barack Obama, it appears unlikely that Robert Zoellick will seek a second term as World Bank president when his first runs out in July. Rumours have it that he will announce his decision in Davos this week.", "tags": ["Davos", "Economics", "Financial crisis", "Business", "Eurozone crisis", "World news", "Financial sector", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Davos guide: what you need to know about the World Economic Forum"},{"date": "2012-01-26T11:26:38Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At the beginning of last December, the Northern League \u2013 having left the majority that supported the government \u2013 convened in Vicenza for what it called \"the Northern parliament\". Its leader, Umberto Bossi, then announced its new political policy. Its aim is no less than to alter the geography of Europe.Bossi unveiled a great map, coloured in by his son Renzo, that signalled the birth of a new state composed of so-called Padania (that is, the regions of Northern Italy), Switzerland, Austria, Bavaria and Savoy. Soon afterwards, to confirm the \"seriousness\" of the programme, the former minister Roberto Calderoli said that, from now on, all members of the Northern League, when they renewed their party membership, would have to swear solemnly to fight for the secession of Padania.It is not the first time, of course, that the League has spoken of secession: this has, in fact, always been its final objective, or at least its dream. However, never before has it spoken of changing not only the borders of Italy, but also of other states such as France, Germany, Austria and Switzerland.The move might sound pan-European, but the league's members are about as far as you can get from European integrationists. They have made much of their Euroscepticism over the years, and are finding now they are at the vanguard of a growing movement that encompasses much of the centre right in Italy. Italian Euroscepticism has been boosted by gathering hostility towards the single currency, which is considered to be responsible for the economic crisis; and it is particularly resentful of the most powerful European states, who are believed to be the real rulers of a union in which Italy plays the part of poor relation or even colony.In support of his new policy, Bossi explained that a war had been fought in Europe \u2013 monetary and non-military, but nevertheless a war \u2013 and Italy had lost. And when wars end, he added, treaties are written and borders are changed.How credible is a policy of this nature? In Italy, it is considered a farce, and it is possible that reactions from abroad have been even harsher: come on, just imagine how the Germans, the French, the Swiss and the Austrians would react to news that a man going by the name of Umberto Bossi wants to take over their countries.Nevertheless, putting this to one side, it would be a mistake to dismiss it all as a mere pipe-dream. The League may be full of big talk, but it knows it can take advantage of the deeply rooted opinions of a substantial proportion of the population of northern Italy. The sacrifices Mario Monti's government has asked Italians to make for the sake of stability are certainly strengthening this intolerance towards the EU.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "European Union", "World news"], "title": "Italy's Northern League: Eurosceptics with their own pan-European project"},{"date": "2012-01-26T17:36:04Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "8.29am: Good morning. We're back following events in Davos, where Bill Gates is currently holding forth on food security and David Cameron, fresh from Brussels, is set to take the stage at 10:30 UK time. Ed Miliband, Gordon Brown and Boris Johnson are also due to speak \u2013 it's a Britain's day at Davos.Yesterday Angela Merkel delivered the summit's opening speech and captured the news agenda by simultaneously releasing an interview to 6 European newspapers, including the Guardian. For all the latest developments on the ongoing crisis in the eurozone, have a look at my colleague Graeme Wearden and Julia Kollewe's liveblog. For everything Davos, stay tuned here.8.29am: Good morning. We're back following events in Davos, where Bill Gates is currently holding forth on food security and David Cameron, fresh from Brussels, is set to take the stage at 10:30 UK time. Ed Miliband, Gordon Brown and Boris Johnson are also due to speak \u2013 it's a Britain's day at Davos.Yesterday, Angela Merkel delivered the summit's opening speech and captured the news agenda by simultaneously releasing an interview to six European newspapers, including the Guardian. For all the latest developments on the ongoing crisis in the eurozone, have a look at my colleague Graeme Wearden and Julia Kollewe's liveblog. For everything Davos, stay tuned here.8.32am: Jill Treanor's already up and running with a fascinating insight into why the summit is so crucial to business leaders, and first mention of an intriguing concept: the southern 'silk road'.Starting off with a breakfast with HSBC, where chief executive Stuart Gulliver has given me a quick insight into how he spends his days while at Davos. About 60 meetings in 4 days \u2013 based roughly on 12 meetings a day, plus a breakfast and a lunch. He's seeing clients, central bankers etc. And from all around the world. Yesterday? Mexico, Saudi, Italy, US, Switzerland and Brazil to name a few ... it illustrates why people come to this ski resort.HSBC is doing its best to present a more upbeat view of the world. The bank's chief economist Stephen King set out the case this morning for what he calls a southern 'silk road'. The idea is that emerging markets will start to trade with each other, not just with the more developed economies. He reckons trade will develop tenfold between Asia, the Middle East and Africa which will change the world does business. He describes it as a 'return to the world as it was perhaps a thousand years ago'. What he means is that Europe will be on the periphery rather than at the centre of world trade.There will be implications for even the way cars are made \u2013 as places such as China and India demand cars, they will need to be smaller ones than those for the US market, where, to put it politely, the population has been getting heavier. There were a couple of people on the panel with King, including Sunil Kant Munjal, chairman of Hero Corporate Service, who offered the following insight: China makes a decision and implements tomorrow. India makes a decision and starts a debate about it.9.09am: More from that Bill Gates session, 'Ensuring Food Security'. Also on the panel are Jos\u00e9 Graziano da Silva of the UN's food and agriculture organisation, Swiss Re CEO Stefan Lippe and Nigerian finance minister, Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, who replaces the advertised Goodluck Jonathan (he's got a lot on his hands at the moment, with fuel protests and terrorism plunging Nigeria into civil crisis).The Bill and Melinda Gates foundation has invested millions of dollars in food security projects and the philanthropist takes a keen interest in the issue. It's something that has increasingly preoccupied policy-makers as commodity prices, including those of basic foodstuffs, have rocketed. More from Jill:'Ensuring food security' was one of the main events early in Thursday's programme in Davos. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, finance director of Nigeria, provided an interesting anecdote in a wide-ranging debate about the grain lost each year. A chief executive visiting Nigeria had said to her that he was amazed by not seeing a single cold storage truck while visiting the country. 'Now I understood the losses,' he said to her.Josette Sheeran, executive director of the United Nations World Food Programme, stated that people who don't have food have three choices \u2013 'revolt, migrate or die'. 'We need a better plan,' she said, pointing to the one in seven people who are food insecure. 70% of brain growth takes place before the age of two so deprivation of food in infants is long-lasting.Crucially Jose Graziano da Silva reckons the world's 7bn population will be adequately fed in 20 years time. 'I am confident we can do it. The problem is not supply side. The problem is access to food.'Paul Polman, chief executive of Unilever who is co-chair at this year's Davos, pointed that his company is trying to decouple growth from environmental impact. Unilever has commitment to getting all raw materials sustainably. He is also head of the B20 which meets alongside the G20 leaders. Brono Le Maire, French agriculture minister, admitted that the economic crisis in Europe could take food security off the agenda. He made it clear that he really didn't think that should happen. So has capitalism had failed food security \u2013 investing in agricultures provides good returns? Microsoft founder and now head of his foundation, Bill Gates, said: 'No-one ever said capitalism solves everything'. Stefan Lippe, chief executive of Swiss Re, said his firm was developing ways to protect investors against weather risk \u2013 that would bring in more investment.9.18am: More Gates! The excellent World Economic Forum live feed is currently broadcasting a press conference with Gates and Simon Bland. The topic is the Global Fund to Fight Aids, Tuberculosis and Malaria, which is 10 years old this month.Jill tells me that the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation is putting $750m in the form of a promissory note into the Global Fund. He urged contributors not to pull back on their commitments because of tough economic times. She also said that Simon Bland, who runs the fund, acknowledged that taxpayers question the value of aid during tough economic times. Even so, he is going to be asking governments for fresh support.9.32am: Former UK prime minister Gordon Brown is due to speak twice today \u2013 once in a few minutes and once at 11:30 UK time, when he'll clash with Ed Miliband, also due to speak then. He's likely to be touting his new global fund for education \u2013 an ambitious project aimed at achieving universal primary education by 2015. In a report released today, Brown warns of \"a hidden and silent emergency in education\". He says:Cameras never capture children going hungry for want of education, or lives devastated for want of learning.9.41am: The main hall is packed for Gordon Brown's session on 'Africa \u2013\u00a0From Transition to Transformation'. He's joined by Jacob Zuma, the South African president, Alpha Cond\u00e9, president of Guinea, Jakaya Kikwete, president of Tanzania, Raila Odinga, prime minister of Kenya and Meles Zenawi, the Ethiopian PM.Zenawi just accidentally called Brown \"Mr Prime Minister\".9.46am: Yesterday, we heard how bankers actually hissed Peter Mandelson during one Davos session. Today it's become clearer that the former EU trade commissioner and UK cabinet minister is attempting to distance himself from the global financial elite. Our reporter here in London, Shiv Malik, has the story: Lord Mandelson has admitted that he is no longer 'intensely relaxed about people getting filthy rich as long as they pay their taxes', given rising inequality and stagnating middle class incomes brought about by the damaging downsides of globalisation.Almost a decade and a half after making his remarks which came to characterise the Labour government's embrace of free markets and the City, Mandelson said that he was now \"much more concerned\" about inequality than when he made first made his comments to a US industrialist in California in 1998.Describing his previous his remarks as 'spontaneous and un-thoughtful', Mandelson who has held a number of government posts during his long political career but was most recently business secretary under Gordon Brown's government, said he would no longer repeat them today.Speaking on BBC Radio 4's Today programme after the publication in Davos on Wednesday of a thinktank report on the future of Globalisation, Mandelson said, 'I don't think I would say that now. Why? Because amongst other things we've seen that globalisation has not generated the rising incomes for all,' he said.In an about turn from one of the staunchest defenders of free trade and globalisation on the left, the former European trade commissioner also made the argument for greater government control and economic intervention and believed that the UK needed to develop a 'modern industrial policy'.10.04am: Our economics editor Larry Elliott has been watching Gordon Brown's Africa session. He sends us these thoughts:Gordon Brown is chairing a Davos session on Africa. Sub-Saharan Africa has recovered quickly from the Great Recession of 2008-09, Brown says, but big challenges remain. Africa is 15% of the world's population but accounts for only 1% of global manufacturing and 1% of global inward investment.Meles Zenawi, prime minister of Ethiopia, expresses confidence that Africa will be the next \"growth pole\" of the global economy and is in the position that India was in at the start of the 1990s, before its rapid economic take-off period.Africa needs three things, he adds: higher investment in infrastructure; better skills; and to attract low-cost manufacturing plants which are looking to re-locate from Asia.Jakaya Kikwete, president of Tanzania says Africa is 'starting from very low levels of development'. He outlines six areas necessary for more rapid progress: sticking to economic reform programmes; investment in education at all levels; transforming agriculture from a position where people 'live from hand to mouth'; develop infrastructure; boost manufacturing; and integrate both regionally and internationally. 'Africa needs access to markets\", he says. 'The early conclusion of the Doha Development Agenda (trade liberalisation talks) is critical'.Sarah Brown, Gordon's wife, is tweeting proceedings:President Zuma of South Africa: optimistic about Africa's leadership and knows the future is on their own hands @WEF #davos\u2014 Sarah Brown (@SarahBrownUK) January 26, 2012President Kikwete: we are all part of global economy- that affects Africa; need to invest in education as our men & women make things happen\u2014 Sarah Brown (@SarahBrownUK) January 26, 201210.20am: David Cameron is due to take the floor at around 10:30. His speech has been widely trailed. He's due to say that eurozone leaders need to \"stop tinkering\" and \"be bolder\". But Professor Simon Evenett of St Gallen University, whom I spoke to yesterday, emails me to say:At a Davos where the private sector is imploring governments to end the eurozone crisis, any defence of last December's UK veto won't go down well.A bulldog speech by Prime Minister Cameron risks painting the UK as part of the problem. Although the prime minister's speech at Davos is another opportunity to push for further liberalisation in Europe, the UK's real priority is to protect the single market as well as the City.10.34am: Faisal Islam, Channel 4 News economics editor, tweets the following photo of delegates queueing up for Cameron: Long queue of dignitaries to hear the prime minister at davos twitter.com/faisalislam/st\u2026\u2014 Faisal Islam (@faisalislam) January 26, 201210.38am: Cameron is on. (Larry Elliott tells us \"Brown is an old pro. His session on Africa has overrun by five minutes, keeping Cameron waiting\".) Don't forget to watch for yourself on the Davos live feed. I note that Cameron's viewing figures on the feed are hovering around the 1300 mark. Merkel's were up into the 3000s.Cameron says: This is not a moment to try and pretend there is not a problem... this is a time to show the leadership that our people are quite rightly demanding. Tinkering ... simply isn't going to cut it any more. This is a time for boldness. Boldness in what we do nationally, but also boldness in what we do as a continent.10.44am: Here's the live feed again: Some more Cameron quotes: The most urgent question facing all of Europe right now is how to deal with the eurozone crisis. This is where Europe needs to be boldest of all ... We need to be honest about the overall situation. The crisis is still weighing down on business confidence and on investment ... the uncertainty in Greece has to be brought to an end ... but we also have to be honest about the long-term consequences of a single currency.And some twitter reaction (we note that Sarah Brown has fallen silent):Five EU countries are less competitive than Iran, says Cameron.He is really cosying up to the rest of Europe\u2014 Robert Peston (@Peston) January 26, 2012Cameron #davos \"We are unashamedly pro-business\" Apart from bank regulation, pay clamp down, minimum price for alcohol, North Sea oil tax...\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 2012It would appear that Cameron is getting more impatient with \u20acurozone leaders conho.me/yl4Z4r\u2014 Tim Montgomerie (@TimMontgomerie) January 26, 201211.07am: The British prime minister is tying things up with a stand-up question and answer session. Very Tory party conference \u2013 not very Davos. Yesterday evening Angela Merkel was quizzed sedately by Klaus Schwab from the comfort of an armchair.Cameron's mind ever on the PR angle as he looks for next question in audience. \"Who's next? We need a bit of gender balance here\"\u2014 FT at Davos 2012 (@FTDavos) January 26, 2012He's also alluded to a \"special treat\" at the end of the Q&A. What could it be?11.08am: That treat \u2013 it's Boris Johnson and Sebastian Coe! Lucky us.Boris has bought some Thames water \u2013 \"the champagne of waters\" with him to Davos, and turned it into an ice sculpture of Tower Bridge. All to promote the 2012 Olympic games, of course.11.25am: It's the ice sculpture Boris Johnson, mayor of London, couldn't resist telling us about at the end of David Cameron's session. My colleague Graeme Wearden points out that it's grossly geographically inaccurate and may confuse visitors to the Olympics later this year.11.42am: Larry Elliott and Jill Treanor have been working together on a news story in reaction Cameron's speech. Here's an early excerpt. They describe his address as a \"stinging critique\" of the eurozone's response to economic crisis.David Cameron urged eurozone leaders to follow Britain's 'bold and decisive' action in dealing with its crisis as he warned that the continent was facing a 'perilous' moment.Addressing the annual World Economic Forum in Davos, the prime minister said three things needed to done urgently in 2012 \u2013 'Greece, banks and firewall'. He said Greek situation needed to resolved, banks recapitalised and an agreement reached a new bailout fund for troubled eurozone countries.He set out a stinging critique of the eurozone's current response the crisis, and its long-term failure to make itself more competitive. Half of EU countries were less competitive than they were a year ago and five were less competitive than Iran. Since the start of the crisis the level of government debt per head of population in Europe had risen by \u20ac4,500, foreign direct investment had fallen by two-thirds and nearly half of EU member states had nearly one-fifth of their young people out of work.'This is not a moment to pretend there's not a problem. It's not the moment for fear of failure to hold us back,' he said.He described the timing of a proposal for a financial transaction tax as 'madness', saying it would cost 500,000 jobs in the EU and cut GDP up to \u20ac200bn.Setting out a defence of his own tough stance on cutting spending, he said 'to be cautious would have have been catastrophic'.'It is time for boldness,' he said. 'The [eurozone] crisis is still weighing down on business confidence,' said Cameron, citing the rise in bond yields in Spain, Italy and Portugal from a year ago. 11.57am: Jill Treanor's now heading to a session on the Nordic experience. Can lessons learnt by Scandinavian countries, with their high-state spending/high-quality of life model be applied globally? Ed Miliband will be joined there by the Danish PM and fellow social democrat, Helle Thorning-Schmidt, Norway's trade minister and Sweden's finance minister. The Chatham House rule applies, apparently, but Jill is hoping to speak to Miliband. We'll let you know how she gets on.11.59am: And just when you thought you'd had enough of British politicians and ex-PMs strutting their stuff at Davos, Tony Blair turns up as well. Kamal Ahmed from the Sunday Telegraph tweets:At #Davos #wef philanthropy debate Tony Blair, Eric Schmidt, Sean Parker and Yuri Milner. So, small beer then...\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 2012Oh yes, and the moderator is someone called Chelsea Clinton #Davos #wef\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 201212.03pm: Oh. No Tony Blair after all. He's not the only no-show. Goodluck Jonathan, president of Nigeria, has also failed to turn up \u2013 perhaps understandably \u2013 for at least two sessions. Ah, sadly no Tony Blair. He's \"stuck in Middle East\" Probably wanted to avoid those tricky questions on his complex biz structures #Davos\u2014 Kamal Ahmed (@kamalahmed1) January 26, 20121.02pm: Larry Elliott's been at lunch with the mayor of London, and observes that there are some subjects he's happy to gloss over:Boris Johnson is speaking at Olympics lunch and telling everybody how safe it is. Crime is down by 10% over the past four years, murder rate down by a quarter, crime on public transport down by 30% and the tube is the safest in Europe. No mention of last summer's riots.1.13pm: The Robin Hood Tax campaign has leapt into action after David Cameron disparaged the idea of a financial transaction tax (FTT) in his Davos speech \u2013 he said its introduction would be \"simply madness\". Spokesman David Hilman said:Cameron is guilty of using dodgy statistics and bad economics to justify his opposition to an FTT that would ensure the City pays to repair the damage it has caused.Cameron has confused the interests of the Square Mile with the interests of Britain as a whole and is turning down billions that could protect schools, hospitals and jobs.1.31pm: Meet Davos man. And the occasional woman. The Davos 'Ask a Leader' video series puts you face-to-face with some of the summit's luminaries, from Mauricio Cardenas, Colombia's mining minister to novelist and poet Carmen Boullosa. Here's physicist Saul Perlmutter, talking about the history of the expansion of the universe. Quite some way from 10-year bond yields.1.44pm: Jill Treanor reports from that session with Ed Miliband:So the Nordic discussion was fascinating \u2013 the idea of equality, social security and union recognition. Under Chatham House rules there is no quoting unless the participants agree. Ed Miliband wasn't keen. But one participant Jacob Wallenberg, chairman of the big Swedish investment house Investor AB (who told me later this was his 20th Davos) was. Addressing the point about whether Nordic countries were complacent about their success, he said 'when China gets going, it's not that I'm concerned they'll pass us but that they will run us over'. He stressed this was not a political statement but one about economics.2.18pm: Reuters has produced a slightly overwhelming Davos by numbers graphic. It contains such gems as follows: it costs $689 to take a limousine from Zurich to Davos, as many delegates will, unless they take a helicopter, at $9000 for a return trip; global public debt in 2012 is $47tn, compared to $18tn in 2000; 4712 Swiss troops have been deployed to protect the summit; and Swiss socialists have built 15 protest igloos. CNN reckons that being a delegate costs, on average, $40,000 in accreditation, travel and expenses. Money well spent?2.39pm: Barclay's chief Bob Diamond has been giving interviews. He's been talking to Bloomberg in a somewhat chilly studio: \"The zero-interest rate environment in the major developed economies is certainly presenting a challenge to banking, there's no question about it.\"On regulation, he says:We know we want to make the financial system safer and sounder. But we also know the importance of driving the economy, providing opportunities for job creation ... and keeping a balance amongst the major economies so that we encourage the continued development of international banking and not a return to protectionism and Balkanisation.He's also been hanging out with Liz Clayman, of Fox business news: Barclays CEO Bob Diamond 2 FBN: \"I predict U.S. GDP will surprise 2 the upside in Q4, will b 3%.\" yfrog.com/nzeephdj\u2014 Liz Claman (@LizClaman) January 26, 20122.59pm: Associated Press's debate on democracy \u2013 Are the democratic institutions of the 20th century fit for the 21st? \u2013 is now underway. The live feed is below.Yesterday, AP asked people to submit questions to their panellists, including Tunisian politician Rachid Ghannouchi, Republican congressman David T Dreier and Pakistani foreign minister Hina Rabbani Khar.Rachid Ghannouchi says:After the collapse of the Soviet Union, a wave democracy spread across the world, but not the Arab world. The obstacle was not Islam, but outside pressure.He goes on to comment: \"I have no doubt that the Syrian revolution will succeed like all other revolutions.\"3.31pm: Christine Lagarde, managing director of the International Monetary Fund, has arrived in Davos. Those hoping for profound insights from the former French finance minister may be disappointed by her first tweet, which is about snow. Don't worry, Christine, we get your drift. Good to be back in Davos. Record snowfall here- highest in January for 69 years. World Economic Forum\u2014 Christine Lagarde (@Lagarde) January 26, 2012There are hints that another global player may be drawing near. Rupert Murdoch tweets that he's in Zurich, a mere $4500 helicopter ride away from Davos: In Zurich with the big chiefs of soccer. Amazing organization with power over most of the world's football.Now back to family and work.\u2014 Rupert Murdoch(@rupertmurdoch) January 26, 20124.19pm: The Guardian multimedia team have put together a montage of David Cameron's summit speech.In the meantime the European press have been reacting to the UK PM's address, which included harsh criticism of the response to the eurozone crisis. Der Spiegel goes with \"Cameron dismisses Merkel's financial transaction plan as 'madness'\", whereas leftwing French daily Lib\u00e9ration has \"Cameron wants more deregulation at the heart of the EU\". Rightwing Spanish daily El Mundo's headline is \"Cameron describes the Sarkozy and Rajoy's Tobin tax as 'mad'\".4.24pm: Some scratching of heads as to why Ed Miliband appears not to need a coat, despite the nearly freezing Davos weather. Tweeter Political Animal suggests one possibility, courtesy of The West Wing: @nicholaswatt Abby Bartlett: \"Why didn't Santos wear a coat?\" Jed: \"He wanted to look young & vigorous.\" \"He looked a young, vigorous fool.\"\u2014 Political Animal (@politic_animal) January 26, 20124.32pm: Felipe Calder\u00f3n, president of Mexico, is delivering a speech in the congress hall. The session, moderated by Bill Gates, is entitled \"Global economic crisis: role and challenges of the G20\".Calder\u00f3n says:The crisis is an opportunity to address once and for all the terrible misery in which many people live.4.39pm: Calder\u00f3n:If we are ever to define a new type of development model, this is the time to do it. We must move towards a green growth path ... climate change, for instance, is already affecting the quality of life in my country. We have the worst floods in the south of the country and the worst droughts in the north ever, at the same time. Taking action now will be much cheaper than taking action in the future ... Mexico will push for the G20 countries to comply with their commitments.The president adds: The new economic model will have to be one in which growth doesn't come at the expense of financial responsibility, social justice and full respect for the environment.4.45pm: Calder\u00f3n is praising the April 2009 G20 hosted by Gordon Brown in London as a model for international economic cooperation. At that meeting, world leaders agreed to pump an additional $1tn (\u00a3748bn) into the crisis-hit global economy.5.07pm: A special video message from Aung San Suu Kyi followed the Calderon session. Speaking of the democratic movement in her own country, the Burmese opposition leader said:Support us in our efforts to take the next crucial step that will enable us to bridge the gap between potential and fulfilment ... The possibility of a great transformation is in sight for our country ... Please support our endeavours to make Burma the shining representative of what can be possible.Aung San Suu Kyi explained that the work to prepare for elections has kept her away from the Davos summit, though of course the risks of her being denied re-entry to the country after leaving it are still very real.5.19pm: Stephen Harper, prime minister of Canada, is giving the final set-piece speech of the evening in the congress hall. It's interesting to compare his managerialist delivery with that of David Cameron \u2013 let alone Boris Johnson \u2013 earlier in the day. He's talking up the Canadian economy, as expected, and making assurances not to raise tax. Harper also seems to be throwing in the odd line of French in \u2013 perhaps around 20%, to match the proportion of native French speakers in Canada?5.28pm: That's just about it for today. Here's a summary of the main developments:\u2022 It was 'UK day' at Davos \u2013 or at least, it felt that way. Gordon Brown's session on Africa was followed by David Cameron in bullish form, lecturing the assembled delegates on the 'madness' of a financial transaction tax, among other things.\u2022 Peter Mandelson made clear in an interview with the Today Programme that he regretted saying Labour was 'intensely relaxed about people getting filthy rich', adding that 'globalisation has not generated the rising incomes for all'.\u2022 Bill Gates made his presence felt at the summit, with a major discussion on food security, a topic close to his heart, a press conference on the global fund against Aids, TB and malaria, and an interview with Mexican president Felipe Calder\u00f3n. \u2022 Aung Sun Suu Kyi delivered a video message in which she asked global leaders for support in her struggle to establish a more democratic Burma.Thanks for reading and for your comments below. We'll be back again tomorrow.", "tags": ["Davos", "World news", "Business", "Economic policy", "Economics", "Davos 2012"], "title": "Davos 2012: Day two, as it happened"},{"date": "2012-01-04T19:48:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's central bank was embroiled in an insider trading scandal after bank chief Philipp Hildebrand was accused of speculating on currency transactions only weeks before he instituted dramatic policy changes that shifted prices in his favour.The accusations, which have rocked the Swiss banking industry, were made by Swiss weekly newspaper Die Weltwoche in a statement before its Thursday publication. It said that previous reports that Hildebrand's wife was responsible for the foreign exchange transactions were misplaced and it was the bank chief who was behind the purchase and selling of currency that triggered an investigation by the Swiss National Bank (SNB).The bank chairman also made several other dollar and euro transactions on the foreign exchange market between March and October last year, according to Die Weltwoche, which is close to the far-right Swiss People's Party (SVP).Hildebrand has come under sustained attack from the SVP and its vice-president Christoph Blocher following the bank chief's efforts to bring down the value of the Swiss franc against the dollar and the euro.The SNB shocked foreign exchange markets last September when it imposed a cap on the value of the franc against the euro to stop the currency soaring and thereby hurting Swiss exporters' earnings.The Swiss weekly claimed that in March alone, Hildebrand bought US dollars worth SFr1.1m, saying it had access to extracts from the Hildebrands' banking documents. The SNB refused to comment.The bank that allegedly handled the transactions, Banque Sarasin, said an employee had leaked client information by transmitting banking details to a lawyer close to the SVP. It said the member of staff had left the bank and could face prosecution.Die Weltwoche said the same employee had lodged a complaint against Hildebrand for alleged insider trading. \"We have all the bank statements showing the relevant transactions, plus a verbal assurance from a bank employee confirming that it was Hildebrand personally \u2013 not his wife \u2013 who ordered the transactions,\" Die Weltwoche's deputy editor-in-chief, Philipp Gut, told the Associated Press in a telephone interview on Wednesday.According to the newspaper, Hildebrand bought more than $500,000 in two transactions dated 15 August, which he then resold in September \u2013 making a profit of SFr75,000 (\u00a352,000).On 15 August the dollar was worth 0.79 francs, against 0.92 francs on 4 October.\"It's a classic forex [foreign exchange] speculation,\" Gut said. \"The only option for Hildebrand is to step down.\"The Zurich-based weekly said it had obtained bank statements showing that he was the one who had bought large amounts of dollars before selling them at a profit.The central bank said in December that an independent investigation into the Hildebrand couple's transactions found they complied with previously agreed ethical standards.The probe was reportedly launched after SVP figurehead Christoph Blocher went to then president Micheline Calmy-Rey with extracts of banking documents.Blocher, a billionaire, has so far refused to comment. A critic of SNB policy under Hildebrand, he is also a defender of Switzerland's banking secrecy laws.Three weeks earlier the bank chief's wife, Kashya Hildebrand, who runs an art gallery in Zurich, said she bought dollars due to the fact that they had \"hit a very low level and become ridiculously cheap\".In a written statement to SF, the Swiss television network, Hildebrand said she had always followed the foreign exchange market and had worked in the banking sector for 15 years between 1984 and 1999 before moving into art.", "tags": ["Currencies", "Business", "Swiss franc", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking"], "title": "Switzerland's central bank chief accused of insider trading"},{"date": "2012-02-02T11:43:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Where to begin on the sheer stupidity and fruitlessness of horizontal showering? It's time to put the 'no' into this innovation, and quickly, before the nation begins to writhe helplessly like beached seals on a platter of dead skin cells and tepid body fluids. The horizontal shower is wrong, wrong, wrong for so many reasons - the primary one being its resemblance to a mortuary slab.This absurd contraption has just been launched in Switzerland by a company called Dornbracht, which exclaimed rather breathlessly that it is \"expanding the vertical showering experience\". Stupid? It gets stupider ...According to the press release, \"With this application, Dornbracht is once again setting a trend in the shower area.\" The CEO, Andreas Dornbracht, insists we'll all be needing a horizontal shower soon: \"With Horizontal Shower, we are transporting the showering experience into a new dimension,\" he says. \"The result is total relaxation, the kind only experienced by someone reclining. Tension in the head and muscles melts away, everyday stress is washed away with the water; body and mind are revitalized.\"By now, you'll be itching to know about the Ambiance Tuning Technique which goes with the horizontal shower, despite your inability to clean the tide marks off your stomach or get up off your slab because you keep slipping over like a flip-flopping bit of overweight marine life. Well, the ATT, as I like to call it, uses different flows and temperatures of water to create massaging experiences. You can enjoy the horizontal shower lying either on your stomach or your back, when it will presumably relentlessly pelt your face.The arguments for improving the vertical shower are strong, of course: its ludicrous ability to get a human body clean in minutes by making use of the simple laws of gravity; its compactness; and its pleasurable physical sensation. But I say we adopt a bit of blue-sky thinking and push the envelope that bit further. The upside-down shower! That's what we need to turn showering on its head.Incidentally, if you think the horizontal shower is a useful addition to modern sanitaryware, then you may also be interested in purchasing the handy and undeniably jaunty toilet roll hat.Alternatively, share your favourite invention turkeys below.", "tags": ["Homes", "Life and style", "Interiors"], "title": "The horizontal shower - worst invention ever?"},{"date": "2012-06-13T22:47:24Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Aung San Suu Kyi has arrived in Switzerland as European leaders prepare to roll out the red carpets for the Burmese opposition leader.The 66-year-old former political prisoner and head of Burma's National League for Democracy is due to address the UN's International Labour Organisation in Geneva on Thursday at the beginning of a 17-day tour of five countries, including the UK.It is the first time in 24 years that The Lady, as she is known, has visited Europe since returning from Oxford to her native Myanmar, as Burma is now renamed. She spent the majority of those years under house arrest.In a packed itinerary, she will fly from Geneva to Norway's capital, Oslo, for what is expected to be an emotional acceptance speech on Saturday for her Nobel peace prize, awarded to her 21 years ago. It was collected by her husband, the Oxford academic Dr Michael Aris, who died in 1999, and their two sons, Alexander, then 18, and Kim, then 14.She was unable to receive it in person due to a deep-seated fear that if she left Burma, where she has been a unifying symbol for freedom and democracy, she would be unable to return to continue her nonviolent struggle against a repressive military junta.The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbjoern Jagland, said he thought her long-delayed acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".While in Norway, she will also visit the Rafto Foundation in Bergen, named after Norwegian human rights activist Thorolf Rafto, which awarded her the Rafto prize in 1990.On Monday, a concert in her honour is being staged in Dublin, Ireland, where U2 frontman Bono will present her with the Ambassador of Conscience award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.She arrives in Britain on Tuesday, her 67th birthday, and is expected to enjoy a family gathering, possibly meeting with the two grandchildren she has never seen.She is due to receive an honorary doctorate at Oxford, where she studied and later lived with her husband and their young sons.In London, she will address both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall \u2013 a rare honour usually accorded only to heads of state.The last stop will be France, after she was personally invited by the new President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande.In April 1988, Suu Kyi left her family in Oxford to nurse her dying mother in Myanmar. As the daughter of Burma's independence hero Gen Aung San, she was swept to the forefront of an uprising against the military regime. At the time, she said: \"As my father's daughter, I felt I had a duty to get involved\".She was viewed as such a threat to the junta she was kept isolated and under house arrest for 15 of the next 22 years. She was released for the last time in November 2010. In April, she won a seat in the lower house (Pyithu Hlattaw) of Myanmar's parliament.This is her second overseas visit having only recently been granted a passport. She recently spent five days in Thailand where she addressed the World Economic Forum on East Asia in Bangkok.Her visit comes as Myanmar president Thein Sein, whose government has been praised for recent reforms, struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Myanmar between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "UK news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Nobel peace prize", "South and Central Asia", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi arrives in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-13T22:47:24Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Aung San Suu Kyi has arrived in Switzerland as European leaders prepare to roll out the red carpets for the Burmese opposition leader.The 66-year-old former political prisoner and head of Burma's National League for Democracy is due to address the UN's International Labour Organisation in Geneva on Thursday at the beginning of a 17-day tour of five countries, including the UK.It is the first time in 24 years that The Lady, as she is known, has visited Europe since returning from Oxford to her native Myanmar, as Burma is now renamed. She spent the majority of those years under house arrest.In a packed itinerary, she will fly from Geneva to Norway's capital, Oslo, for what is expected to be an emotional acceptance speech on Saturday for her Nobel peace prize, awarded to her 21 years ago. It was collected by her husband, the Oxford academic Dr Michael Aris, who died in 1999, and their two sons, Alexander, then 18, and Kim, then 14.She was unable to receive it in person due to a deep-seated fear that if she left Burma, where she has been a unifying symbol for freedom and democracy, she would be unable to return to continue her nonviolent struggle against a repressive military junta.The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbjoern Jagland, said he thought her long-delayed acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".While in Norway, she will also visit the Rafto Foundation in Bergen, named after Norwegian human rights activist Thorolf Rafto, which awarded her the Rafto prize in 1990.On Monday, a concert in her honour is being staged in Dublin, Ireland, where U2 frontman Bono will present her with the Ambassador of Conscience award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.She arrives in Britain on Tuesday, her 67th birthday, and is expected to enjoy a family gathering, possibly meeting with the two grandchildren she has never seen.She is due to receive an honorary doctorate at Oxford, where she studied and later lived with her husband and their young sons.In London, she will address both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall \u2013 a rare honour usually accorded only to heads of state.The last stop will be France, after she was personally invited by the new President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande.In April 1988, Suu Kyi left her family in Oxford to nurse her dying mother in Myanmar. As the daughter of Burma's independence hero Gen Aung San, she was swept to the forefront of an uprising against the military regime. At the time, she said: \"As my father's daughter, I felt I had a duty to get involved\".She was viewed as such a threat to the junta she was kept isolated and under house arrest for 15 of the next 22 years. She was released for the last time in November 2010. In April, she won a seat in the lower house (Pyithu Hlattaw) of Myanmar's parliament.This is her second overseas visit having only recently been granted a passport. She recently spent five days in Thailand where she addressed the World Economic Forum on East Asia in Bangkok.Her visit comes as Myanmar president Thein Sein, whose government has been praised for recent reforms, struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Myanmar between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "UK news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Nobel peace prize", "South and Central Asia", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi arrives in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-14T13:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost a quarter of a century since she last set foot in Europe, the Burmese pro-democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi kicked off a five-country tour in Switzerland on Thursday, welcoming the international community's efforts to strengthen reform in her homeland.The 66-year-old former political prisoner, kept under house arrest for 15 of the last 22 years, addressed the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in Geneva, her first engagement in a whirlwind tour certain to elevate further her status as an international political celebrity.Now a member of parliament in Burma, the Nobel peace prize laureate welcomed steps to reach out to her country, which has long been isolated because of its military dictatorship.Wearing trademark flowers in her hair, the Lady, as she is known, was given a rapturous welcome by the ILO, an organisation she chose to address because of its long campaign against child and slave labour in Burma.\"The international community is trying very hard to bring my country into it, and it's up to our country to respond the right way,\" she said.\"Any new investment that comes in because of the lifting or suspension of sanctions should add to the democratic process rather than subtract from it,\" she later told reporters.She also urged foreign governments not to allow their companies to form joint ventures with Burma's state-owned oil and gas company until it improved its business practices.The tour, which also takes in Norway, Ireland, Britain and France, will be the first opportunity for western leaders to analyse Aung San Suu Kyi's transition from prisoner of conscience during years of detention to stateswoman.The red carpet is being rolled out during the 17-day visit, seen as another milestone in Burma's political progress, under which recent reforms by the Burmese president, Thein Sein, have led to a lifting of sanctions.Especially emotional for the mother of two will be a return to her \"beloved\" Oxford, where she studied and later settled with her husband, the academic and Tibetan expert Dr Michael Aris, who died from cancer in 1999 having been refused a visa to visit the wife he had been able to see only five times in the previous 10 years. The couple raised their sons, Alexander, 38, and Kim, 34, in the city and she is due to receive an honorary degree at a ceremony at Oxford University next Wednesday.Another engagement will be when she addresses both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall on Thursday, an honour that has been accorded in recent times to Nelson Mandela, in 1996, Barack Obama, in 2011, Pope Benedict XVI, in 2010, and the Queen. It has never before been bestowed on the leader of an opposition party.Ireland will host an Electric Burma concert on Monday, during which U2 frontman Bono will present Aung San Suu Kyi with the \"ambassador of conscience\" award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.The show will also feature Sir Bob Geldof and the Riverdance troupe. \"To be allowed to honour this woman is an honour in itself. The heroine of dignity, integrity, courage and steely moral vigour lost her freedom and her family in order to gain a nation. Ireland is ennobled by her visit,\" Geldof said.Bono has reportedly lent Aung San Suu Kyi his private jet to fly her to Ireland from Oslo, where she will finally give her acceptance speech on Saturday, 21 years after being awarded the Nobel peace prize and lauded as \"an extraordinary example of civil courage\" and \"important symbol in the struggle against oppression\".It was accepted by her son, Alexander, then 18, who received a standing ovation when he said his mother had accepted it \"in the name of all the people of Burma\". His voice trembled as he spoke of his wish that soon she would be able to \"speak directly for herself, instead of through me\".More than two decades later that moment is poised to be one of the tour's highlights. The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbj\u00f8rn Jagland, said her acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".The European tour is only the second time Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of General Aung San, regarded as the founder of modern Burma and who was assassinated when she was two, has left the country since she returned to nurse her dying mother in 1988. She recently attended the World Economic Forum for East Asia in Bangkok.Her passport has only recently been returned. She was deemed a threat to the ruling military junta when she emerged as a unifying symbol of a free Burma during the 1988 pro-democracy uprisings, which were brutally quashed by the military regime.She was forced to spend long, lonely years incarcerated in her dilapidated lakeside villa in Rangoon. Though at times free to leave the country, she never did amid fears she would be refused re-entry. Among her lifelines were a piano and the BBC World Service \u2013 she had a special fondness for Dave Lee Travis's music programme, and the DJ hopes to meet her during her UK visit.Her sacrifice \u2013 staying even as her husband was dying in England, unable to see her sons \u2013 has earned her iconic status comparable with Mandela.Her campaign of non-violent opposition, which gained her the \"Steel Butterfly\" sobriquet, saw her receive an array of human rights awards and gain a high profile that afforded her some protection.Aung San Suu Kyi was released from her last period of house arrest in November 2010, and in April this year won a seat in the lower house of the Burmese parliament.Her visit comes as the government struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Burma between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since last Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "World news", "South and Central Asia", "Europe", "UK news", "France", "Norway", "Nobel peace prize", "Ireland", "Switzerland", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi kicks off European tour in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-13T22:47:24Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Aung San Suu Kyi has arrived in Switzerland as European leaders prepare to roll out the red carpets for the Burmese opposition leader.The 66-year-old former political prisoner and head of Burma's National League for Democracy is due to address the UN's International Labour Organisation in Geneva on Thursday at the beginning of a 17-day tour of five countries, including the UK.It is the first time in 24 years that The Lady, as she is known, has visited Europe since returning from Oxford to her native Myanmar, as Burma is now renamed. She spent the majority of those years under house arrest.In a packed itinerary, she will fly from Geneva to Norway's capital, Oslo, for what is expected to be an emotional acceptance speech on Saturday for her Nobel peace prize, awarded to her 21 years ago. It was collected by her husband, the Oxford academic Dr Michael Aris, who died in 1999, and their two sons, Alexander, then 18, and Kim, then 14.She was unable to receive it in person due to a deep-seated fear that if she left Burma, where she has been a unifying symbol for freedom and democracy, she would be unable to return to continue her nonviolent struggle against a repressive military junta.The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbjoern Jagland, said he thought her long-delayed acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".While in Norway, she will also visit the Rafto Foundation in Bergen, named after Norwegian human rights activist Thorolf Rafto, which awarded her the Rafto prize in 1990.On Monday, a concert in her honour is being staged in Dublin, Ireland, where U2 frontman Bono will present her with the Ambassador of Conscience award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.She arrives in Britain on Tuesday, her 67th birthday, and is expected to enjoy a family gathering, possibly meeting with the two grandchildren she has never seen.She is due to receive an honorary doctorate at Oxford, where she studied and later lived with her husband and their young sons.In London, she will address both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall \u2013 a rare honour usually accorded only to heads of state.The last stop will be France, after she was personally invited by the new President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande.In April 1988, Suu Kyi left her family in Oxford to nurse her dying mother in Myanmar. As the daughter of Burma's independence hero Gen Aung San, she was swept to the forefront of an uprising against the military regime. At the time, she said: \"As my father's daughter, I felt I had a duty to get involved\".She was viewed as such a threat to the junta she was kept isolated and under house arrest for 15 of the next 22 years. She was released for the last time in November 2010. In April, she won a seat in the lower house (Pyithu Hlattaw) of Myanmar's parliament.This is her second overseas visit having only recently been granted a passport. She recently spent five days in Thailand where she addressed the World Economic Forum on East Asia in Bangkok.Her visit comes as Myanmar president Thein Sein, whose government has been praised for recent reforms, struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Myanmar between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "UK news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Nobel peace prize", "South and Central Asia", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi arrives in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-14T13:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost a quarter of a century since she last set foot in Europe, the Burmese pro-democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi kicked off a five-country tour in Switzerland on Thursday, welcoming the international community's efforts to strengthen reform in her homeland.The 66-year-old former political prisoner, kept under house arrest for 15 of the last 22 years, addressed the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in Geneva, her first engagement in a whirlwind tour certain to elevate further her status as an international political celebrity.Now a member of parliament in Burma, the Nobel peace prize laureate welcomed steps to reach out to her country, which has long been isolated because of its military dictatorship.Wearing trademark flowers in her hair, the Lady, as she is known, was given a rapturous welcome by the ILO, an organisation she chose to address because of its long campaign against child and slave labour in Burma.\"The international community is trying very hard to bring my country into it, and it's up to our country to respond the right way,\" she said.\"Any new investment that comes in because of the lifting or suspension of sanctions should add to the democratic process rather than subtract from it,\" she later told reporters.She also urged foreign governments not to allow their companies to form joint ventures with Burma's state-owned oil and gas company until it improved its business practices.The tour, which also takes in Norway, Ireland, Britain and France, will be the first opportunity for western leaders to analyse Aung San Suu Kyi's transition from prisoner of conscience during years of detention to stateswoman.The red carpet is being rolled out during the 17-day visit, seen as another milestone in Burma's political progress, under which recent reforms by the Burmese president, Thein Sein, have led to a lifting of sanctions.Especially emotional for the mother of two will be a return to her \"beloved\" Oxford, where she studied and later settled with her husband, the academic and Tibetan expert Dr Michael Aris, who died from cancer in 1999 having been refused a visa to visit the wife he had been able to see only five times in the previous 10 years. The couple raised their sons, Alexander, 38, and Kim, 34, in the city and she is due to receive an honorary degree at a ceremony at Oxford University next Wednesday.Another engagement will be when she addresses both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall on Thursday, an honour that has been accorded in recent times to Nelson Mandela, in 1996, Barack Obama, in 2011, Pope Benedict XVI, in 2010, and the Queen. It has never before been bestowed on the leader of an opposition party.Ireland will host an Electric Burma concert on Monday, during which U2 frontman Bono will present Aung San Suu Kyi with the \"ambassador of conscience\" award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.The show will also feature Sir Bob Geldof and the Riverdance troupe. \"To be allowed to honour this woman is an honour in itself. The heroine of dignity, integrity, courage and steely moral vigour lost her freedom and her family in order to gain a nation. Ireland is ennobled by her visit,\" Geldof said.Bono has reportedly lent Aung San Suu Kyi his private jet to fly her to Ireland from Oslo, where she will finally give her acceptance speech on Saturday, 21 years after being awarded the Nobel peace prize and lauded as \"an extraordinary example of civil courage\" and \"important symbol in the struggle against oppression\".It was accepted by her son, Alexander, then 18, who received a standing ovation when he said his mother had accepted it \"in the name of all the people of Burma\". His voice trembled as he spoke of his wish that soon she would be able to \"speak directly for herself, instead of through me\".More than two decades later that moment is poised to be one of the tour's highlights. The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbj\u00f8rn Jagland, said her acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".The European tour is only the second time Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of General Aung San, regarded as the founder of modern Burma and who was assassinated when she was two, has left the country since she returned to nurse her dying mother in 1988. She recently attended the World Economic Forum for East Asia in Bangkok.Her passport has only recently been returned. She was deemed a threat to the ruling military junta when she emerged as a unifying symbol of a free Burma during the 1988 pro-democracy uprisings, which were brutally quashed by the military regime.She was forced to spend long, lonely years incarcerated in her dilapidated lakeside villa in Rangoon. Though at times free to leave the country, she never did amid fears she would be refused re-entry. Among her lifelines were a piano and the BBC World Service \u2013 she had a special fondness for Dave Lee Travis's music programme, and the DJ hopes to meet her during her UK visit.Her sacrifice \u2013 staying even as her husband was dying in England, unable to see her sons \u2013 has earned her iconic status comparable with Mandela.Her campaign of non-violent opposition, which gained her the \"Steel Butterfly\" sobriquet, saw her receive an array of human rights awards and gain a high profile that afforded her some protection.Aung San Suu Kyi was released from her last period of house arrest in November 2010, and in April this year won a seat in the lower house of the Burmese parliament.Her visit comes as the government struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Burma between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since last Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "World news", "South and Central Asia", "Europe", "UK news", "France", "Norway", "Nobel peace prize", "Ireland", "Switzerland", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi kicks off European tour in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-16T15:46:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdul-Aziz al Saud has died in Switzerland following an illness.Nayef, 78, who was next in line to the Saudi throne, died in hospital in Geneva on Saturday, according to Saudi state television.The prince had been interior minister in the kingdom since 1975 and deputy prime minister. He spearheaded the country's post-September 11 crackdown on al-Qaida. He rose to the position of crown prince after the death of his elder brother, Crown Prince Sultan, in October last year.The prince had been ill for some months and had been in Switzerland since May for treatment. He had undergone medical tests in the US and although there had been speculation that he had cancer, this has never been officially confirmed.Earlier this month, Nayef's brother and deputy interior minister, Prince Ahmed, told al-Watan newspaper that Nayef was \"well and in good health\u00a0\u2026 and he will soon return\" to Saudi Arabia.Nayef was considered to be more conservative and less keen on reform than his half-brother, the current King Abdullah. However, in 2001, he supported a move to issue women in the kingdom with their own identity cards \u2013 previously they could only be registered on the card of a father or husband.Nayef was initially criticised for shifting the blame from the country following the September 11 attacks, in which 15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudi nationals. It was also reported that he would be listed, along with other members of the royal family, in a lawsuit filed by the victims of the attacks, over claims that family members were engaged in payoffs to al-Qaida, but his name was later to be removed due to diplomatic immunity.In February 2002 there came a change of heart. Under pressure from the US and attacks by Islamist militants within the kingdom \u2013 including a declaration from al-Qaida of its aim to overthrow the Saudi royal family \u2013 Nayef became the first Saudi official to publicly confirm that Saudi nationals were involved in the US attacks.He was later responsible for a successful crackdown of radicals and al-Qaida militants in Saudi Arabia, who were responsible for a wave of bloody attacks in the country between 2003 and 2006. His campaign forced many to flee to neighbouring Yemen.Nayef had also pushed for a more hardline stance towards Iran.King Abdullah said in a statement that funeral prayers would be held for the prince after sunset on Sunday, before a traditional burial. Television channel Al Arabiya reported that his funeral would be held in a mosque in the holy city of Mecca.The succession is likely to pass to another son of the former king, possibly Nayef's younger brother, Prince Salman, who had been governor of Riyadh for nearly five decades before his appointment as defence minister last year.\u2022 This article was amended on 18 June 2012. The original referred to King Abdullah as an uncle, rather than a brother, of Crown Prince Nayef. It also said Prince Salman was governor of Riyadh. He no longer holds that post.", "tags": ["Saudi Arabia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Nayef dies"},{"date": "2012-06-13T22:47:24Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Aung San Suu Kyi has arrived in Switzerland as European leaders prepare to roll out the red carpets for the Burmese opposition leader.The 66-year-old former political prisoner and head of Burma's National League for Democracy is due to address the UN's International Labour Organisation in Geneva on Thursday at the beginning of a 17-day tour of five countries, including the UK.It is the first time in 24 years that The Lady, as she is known, has visited Europe since returning from Oxford to her native Myanmar, as Burma is now renamed. She spent the majority of those years under house arrest.In a packed itinerary, she will fly from Geneva to Norway's capital, Oslo, for what is expected to be an emotional acceptance speech on Saturday for her Nobel peace prize, awarded to her 21 years ago. It was collected by her husband, the Oxford academic Dr Michael Aris, who died in 1999, and their two sons, Alexander, then 18, and Kim, then 14.She was unable to receive it in person due to a deep-seated fear that if she left Burma, where she has been a unifying symbol for freedom and democracy, she would be unable to return to continue her nonviolent struggle against a repressive military junta.The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbjoern Jagland, said he thought her long-delayed acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".While in Norway, she will also visit the Rafto Foundation in Bergen, named after Norwegian human rights activist Thorolf Rafto, which awarded her the Rafto prize in 1990.On Monday, a concert in her honour is being staged in Dublin, Ireland, where U2 frontman Bono will present her with the Ambassador of Conscience award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.She arrives in Britain on Tuesday, her 67th birthday, and is expected to enjoy a family gathering, possibly meeting with the two grandchildren she has never seen.She is due to receive an honorary doctorate at Oxford, where she studied and later lived with her husband and their young sons.In London, she will address both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall \u2013 a rare honour usually accorded only to heads of state.The last stop will be France, after she was personally invited by the new President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande.In April 1988, Suu Kyi left her family in Oxford to nurse her dying mother in Myanmar. As the daughter of Burma's independence hero Gen Aung San, she was swept to the forefront of an uprising against the military regime. At the time, she said: \"As my father's daughter, I felt I had a duty to get involved\".She was viewed as such a threat to the junta she was kept isolated and under house arrest for 15 of the next 22 years. She was released for the last time in November 2010. In April, she won a seat in the lower house (Pyithu Hlattaw) of Myanmar's parliament.This is her second overseas visit having only recently been granted a passport. She recently spent five days in Thailand where she addressed the World Economic Forum on East Asia in Bangkok.Her visit comes as Myanmar president Thein Sein, whose government has been praised for recent reforms, struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Myanmar between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "UK news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Nobel peace prize", "South and Central Asia", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi arrives in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-14T13:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost a quarter of a century since she last set foot in Europe, the Burmese pro-democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi kicked off a five-country tour in Switzerland on Thursday, welcoming the international community's efforts to strengthen reform in her homeland.The 66-year-old former political prisoner, kept under house arrest for 15 of the last 22 years, addressed the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in Geneva, her first engagement in a whirlwind tour certain to elevate further her status as an international political celebrity.Now a member of parliament in Burma, the Nobel peace prize laureate welcomed steps to reach out to her country, which has long been isolated because of its military dictatorship.Wearing trademark flowers in her hair, the Lady, as she is known, was given a rapturous welcome by the ILO, an organisation she chose to address because of its long campaign against child and slave labour in Burma.\"The international community is trying very hard to bring my country into it, and it's up to our country to respond the right way,\" she said.\"Any new investment that comes in because of the lifting or suspension of sanctions should add to the democratic process rather than subtract from it,\" she later told reporters.She also urged foreign governments not to allow their companies to form joint ventures with Burma's state-owned oil and gas company until it improved its business practices.The tour, which also takes in Norway, Ireland, Britain and France, will be the first opportunity for western leaders to analyse Aung San Suu Kyi's transition from prisoner of conscience during years of detention to stateswoman.The red carpet is being rolled out during the 17-day visit, seen as another milestone in Burma's political progress, under which recent reforms by the Burmese president, Thein Sein, have led to a lifting of sanctions.Especially emotional for the mother of two will be a return to her \"beloved\" Oxford, where she studied and later settled with her husband, the academic and Tibetan expert Dr Michael Aris, who died from cancer in 1999 having been refused a visa to visit the wife he had been able to see only five times in the previous 10 years. The couple raised their sons, Alexander, 38, and Kim, 34, in the city and she is due to receive an honorary degree at a ceremony at Oxford University next Wednesday.Another engagement will be when she addresses both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall on Thursday, an honour that has been accorded in recent times to Nelson Mandela, in 1996, Barack Obama, in 2011, Pope Benedict XVI, in 2010, and the Queen. It has never before been bestowed on the leader of an opposition party.Ireland will host an Electric Burma concert on Monday, during which U2 frontman Bono will present Aung San Suu Kyi with the \"ambassador of conscience\" award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.The show will also feature Sir Bob Geldof and the Riverdance troupe. \"To be allowed to honour this woman is an honour in itself. The heroine of dignity, integrity, courage and steely moral vigour lost her freedom and her family in order to gain a nation. Ireland is ennobled by her visit,\" Geldof said.Bono has reportedly lent Aung San Suu Kyi his private jet to fly her to Ireland from Oslo, where she will finally give her acceptance speech on Saturday, 21 years after being awarded the Nobel peace prize and lauded as \"an extraordinary example of civil courage\" and \"important symbol in the struggle against oppression\".It was accepted by her son, Alexander, then 18, who received a standing ovation when he said his mother had accepted it \"in the name of all the people of Burma\". His voice trembled as he spoke of his wish that soon she would be able to \"speak directly for herself, instead of through me\".More than two decades later that moment is poised to be one of the tour's highlights. The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbj\u00f8rn Jagland, said her acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".The European tour is only the second time Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of General Aung San, regarded as the founder of modern Burma and who was assassinated when she was two, has left the country since she returned to nurse her dying mother in 1988. She recently attended the World Economic Forum for East Asia in Bangkok.Her passport has only recently been returned. She was deemed a threat to the ruling military junta when she emerged as a unifying symbol of a free Burma during the 1988 pro-democracy uprisings, which were brutally quashed by the military regime.She was forced to spend long, lonely years incarcerated in her dilapidated lakeside villa in Rangoon. Though at times free to leave the country, she never did amid fears she would be refused re-entry. Among her lifelines were a piano and the BBC World Service \u2013 she had a special fondness for Dave Lee Travis's music programme, and the DJ hopes to meet her during her UK visit.Her sacrifice \u2013 staying even as her husband was dying in England, unable to see her sons \u2013 has earned her iconic status comparable with Mandela.Her campaign of non-violent opposition, which gained her the \"Steel Butterfly\" sobriquet, saw her receive an array of human rights awards and gain a high profile that afforded her some protection.Aung San Suu Kyi was released from her last period of house arrest in November 2010, and in April this year won a seat in the lower house of the Burmese parliament.Her visit comes as the government struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Burma between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since last Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "World news", "South and Central Asia", "Europe", "UK news", "France", "Norway", "Nobel peace prize", "Ireland", "Switzerland", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi kicks off European tour in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-16T15:46:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdul-Aziz al Saud has died in Switzerland following an illness.Nayef, 78, who was next in line to the Saudi throne, died in hospital in Geneva on Saturday, according to Saudi state television.The prince had been interior minister in the kingdom since 1975 and deputy prime minister. He spearheaded the country's post-September 11 crackdown on al-Qaida. He rose to the position of crown prince after the death of his elder brother, Crown Prince Sultan, in October last year.The prince had been ill for some months and had been in Switzerland since May for treatment. He had undergone medical tests in the US and although there had been speculation that he had cancer, this has never been officially confirmed.Earlier this month, Nayef's brother and deputy interior minister, Prince Ahmed, told al-Watan newspaper that Nayef was \"well and in good health\u00a0\u2026 and he will soon return\" to Saudi Arabia.Nayef was considered to be more conservative and less keen on reform than his half-brother, the current King Abdullah. However, in 2001, he supported a move to issue women in the kingdom with their own identity cards \u2013 previously they could only be registered on the card of a father or husband.Nayef was initially criticised for shifting the blame from the country following the September 11 attacks, in which 15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudi nationals. It was also reported that he would be listed, along with other members of the royal family, in a lawsuit filed by the victims of the attacks, over claims that family members were engaged in payoffs to al-Qaida, but his name was later to be removed due to diplomatic immunity.In February 2002 there came a change of heart. Under pressure from the US and attacks by Islamist militants within the kingdom \u2013 including a declaration from al-Qaida of its aim to overthrow the Saudi royal family \u2013 Nayef became the first Saudi official to publicly confirm that Saudi nationals were involved in the US attacks.He was later responsible for a successful crackdown of radicals and al-Qaida militants in Saudi Arabia, who were responsible for a wave of bloody attacks in the country between 2003 and 2006. His campaign forced many to flee to neighbouring Yemen.Nayef had also pushed for a more hardline stance towards Iran.King Abdullah said in a statement that funeral prayers would be held for the prince after sunset on Sunday, before a traditional burial. Television channel Al Arabiya reported that his funeral would be held in a mosque in the holy city of Mecca.The succession is likely to pass to another son of the former king, possibly Nayef's younger brother, Prince Salman, who had been governor of Riyadh for nearly five decades before his appointment as defence minister last year.\u2022 This article was amended on 18 June 2012. The original referred to King Abdullah as an uncle, rather than a brother, of Crown Prince Nayef. It also said Prince Salman was governor of Riyadh. He no longer holds that post.", "tags": ["Saudi Arabia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Nayef dies"},{"date": "2012-06-13T09:04:19Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Police in Italy, Switzerland and Germany have arrested 10 people suspected of involvement in leftwing terrorist activity in Italy and elsewhere over the past three years.Police sources said the suspects, detained in pre-dawn raids, all had links to one of two shadowy organisations: the Informal Anarchist Federation (FAI) and the International Revolutionary Front (FRI). Warrants issued by a judge in Perugia, in central Italy, accused them of a variety of offences including subversion, terrorist conspiracy and international terrorism.Eight arrests were made in Italy, one in Switzerland, and one in Germany.A senior officer in the semi-militarised Carabinieri police, General Giampaolo Ganzer, said the FAI and FRI were in a position to mount attacks with \"both bombs and firearms\". The general, who commands the Carabinieri's special forces, said the two groups were in contact with the Greek anarchist movement.Those arrested appeared not to have been directly connected with the most serious recent terrorist attack in Italy \u2013 the shooting and wounding last month of a senior executive in the nuclear industry, Roberto Adinolfi of Finmeccanica. But in an interview with the Italian Sky TV network, General Ganzer said: \"The origin is the same.\"The warrants cited other terrorist operations, many of them abortive. These included a failed pipebomb attack on the business-oriented Bocconi university in Milan in 2009; recent blasts outside tax collection offices in different parts of Italy; a parcel bomb intercepted in Frankfurt in 2011 and sent to the then CEO of Deutsche Bank, Josef Ackermann; and, also in 2011, a parcel bomb addressed to the Greek embassy in Paris, which was later defused.More than 40 searches were carried out in Italy alone. Among those taken into custody were two men arrested in 2009 on suspicion of sabotaging an Italian railway line.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italian police arrest leftwing terror suspects"},{"date": "2012-06-13T22:47:24Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Aung San Suu Kyi has arrived in Switzerland as European leaders prepare to roll out the red carpets for the Burmese opposition leader.The 66-year-old former political prisoner and head of Burma's National League for Democracy is due to address the UN's International Labour Organisation in Geneva on Thursday at the beginning of a 17-day tour of five countries, including the UK.It is the first time in 24 years that The Lady, as she is known, has visited Europe since returning from Oxford to her native Myanmar, as Burma is now renamed. She spent the majority of those years under house arrest.In a packed itinerary, she will fly from Geneva to Norway's capital, Oslo, for what is expected to be an emotional acceptance speech on Saturday for her Nobel peace prize, awarded to her 21 years ago. It was collected by her husband, the Oxford academic Dr Michael Aris, who died in 1999, and their two sons, Alexander, then 18, and Kim, then 14.She was unable to receive it in person due to a deep-seated fear that if she left Burma, where she has been a unifying symbol for freedom and democracy, she would be unable to return to continue her nonviolent struggle against a repressive military junta.The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbjoern Jagland, said he thought her long-delayed acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".While in Norway, she will also visit the Rafto Foundation in Bergen, named after Norwegian human rights activist Thorolf Rafto, which awarded her the Rafto prize in 1990.On Monday, a concert in her honour is being staged in Dublin, Ireland, where U2 frontman Bono will present her with the Ambassador of Conscience award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.She arrives in Britain on Tuesday, her 67th birthday, and is expected to enjoy a family gathering, possibly meeting with the two grandchildren she has never seen.She is due to receive an honorary doctorate at Oxford, where she studied and later lived with her husband and their young sons.In London, she will address both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall \u2013 a rare honour usually accorded only to heads of state.The last stop will be France, after she was personally invited by the new President Fran\u00e7ois Hollande.In April 1988, Suu Kyi left her family in Oxford to nurse her dying mother in Myanmar. As the daughter of Burma's independence hero Gen Aung San, she was swept to the forefront of an uprising against the military regime. At the time, she said: \"As my father's daughter, I felt I had a duty to get involved\".She was viewed as such a threat to the junta she was kept isolated and under house arrest for 15 of the next 22 years. She was released for the last time in November 2010. In April, she won a seat in the lower house (Pyithu Hlattaw) of Myanmar's parliament.This is her second overseas visit having only recently been granted a passport. She recently spent five days in Thailand where she addressed the World Economic Forum on East Asia in Bangkok.Her visit comes as Myanmar president Thein Sein, whose government has been praised for recent reforms, struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Myanmar between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "UK news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Nobel peace prize", "South and Central Asia", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi arrives in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-14T13:05:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Almost a quarter of a century since she last set foot in Europe, the Burmese pro-democracy icon Aung San Suu Kyi kicked off a five-country tour in Switzerland on Thursday, welcoming the international community's efforts to strengthen reform in her homeland.The 66-year-old former political prisoner, kept under house arrest for 15 of the last 22 years, addressed the International Labour Organisation (ILO) in Geneva, her first engagement in a whirlwind tour certain to elevate further her status as an international political celebrity.Now a member of parliament in Burma, the Nobel peace prize laureate welcomed steps to reach out to her country, which has long been isolated because of its military dictatorship.Wearing trademark flowers in her hair, the Lady, as she is known, was given a rapturous welcome by the ILO, an organisation she chose to address because of its long campaign against child and slave labour in Burma.\"The international community is trying very hard to bring my country into it, and it's up to our country to respond the right way,\" she said.\"Any new investment that comes in because of the lifting or suspension of sanctions should add to the democratic process rather than subtract from it,\" she later told reporters.She also urged foreign governments not to allow their companies to form joint ventures with Burma's state-owned oil and gas company until it improved its business practices.The tour, which also takes in Norway, Ireland, Britain and France, will be the first opportunity for western leaders to analyse Aung San Suu Kyi's transition from prisoner of conscience during years of detention to stateswoman.The red carpet is being rolled out during the 17-day visit, seen as another milestone in Burma's political progress, under which recent reforms by the Burmese president, Thein Sein, have led to a lifting of sanctions.Especially emotional for the mother of two will be a return to her \"beloved\" Oxford, where she studied and later settled with her husband, the academic and Tibetan expert Dr Michael Aris, who died from cancer in 1999 having been refused a visa to visit the wife he had been able to see only five times in the previous 10 years. The couple raised their sons, Alexander, 38, and Kim, 34, in the city and she is due to receive an honorary degree at a ceremony at Oxford University next Wednesday.Another engagement will be when she addresses both houses of parliament in Westminster Hall on Thursday, an honour that has been accorded in recent times to Nelson Mandela, in 1996, Barack Obama, in 2011, Pope Benedict XVI, in 2010, and the Queen. It has never before been bestowed on the leader of an opposition party.Ireland will host an Electric Burma concert on Monday, during which U2 frontman Bono will present Aung San Suu Kyi with the \"ambassador of conscience\" award, Amnesty International's most prestigious honour.The show will also feature Sir Bob Geldof and the Riverdance troupe. \"To be allowed to honour this woman is an honour in itself. The heroine of dignity, integrity, courage and steely moral vigour lost her freedom and her family in order to gain a nation. Ireland is ennobled by her visit,\" Geldof said.Bono has reportedly lent Aung San Suu Kyi his private jet to fly her to Ireland from Oslo, where she will finally give her acceptance speech on Saturday, 21 years after being awarded the Nobel peace prize and lauded as \"an extraordinary example of civil courage\" and \"important symbol in the struggle against oppression\".It was accepted by her son, Alexander, then 18, who received a standing ovation when he said his mother had accepted it \"in the name of all the people of Burma\". His voice trembled as he spoke of his wish that soon she would be able to \"speak directly for herself, instead of through me\".More than two decades later that moment is poised to be one of the tour's highlights. The head of the Nobel committee, Thorbj\u00f8rn Jagland, said her acceptance speech \"will be one of the most historic events in Nobel peace prize history\".The European tour is only the second time Aung San Suu Kyi, the daughter of General Aung San, regarded as the founder of modern Burma and who was assassinated when she was two, has left the country since she returned to nurse her dying mother in 1988. She recently attended the World Economic Forum for East Asia in Bangkok.Her passport has only recently been returned. She was deemed a threat to the ruling military junta when she emerged as a unifying symbol of a free Burma during the 1988 pro-democracy uprisings, which were brutally quashed by the military regime.She was forced to spend long, lonely years incarcerated in her dilapidated lakeside villa in Rangoon. Though at times free to leave the country, she never did amid fears she would be refused re-entry. Among her lifelines were a piano and the BBC World Service \u2013 she had a special fondness for Dave Lee Travis's music programme, and the DJ hopes to meet her during her UK visit.Her sacrifice \u2013 staying even as her husband was dying in England, unable to see her sons \u2013 has earned her iconic status comparable with Mandela.Her campaign of non-violent opposition, which gained her the \"Steel Butterfly\" sobriquet, saw her receive an array of human rights awards and gain a high profile that afforded her some protection.Aung San Suu Kyi was released from her last period of house arrest in November 2010, and in April this year won a seat in the lower house of the Burmese parliament.Her visit comes as the government struggles to contain sectarian violence in western Burma between Rakhine Buddhists and Rohingya Muslims, which has claimed at least 21 lives since last Friday.", "tags": ["Aung San Suu Kyi", "World news", "South and Central Asia", "Europe", "UK news", "France", "Norway", "Nobel peace prize", "Ireland", "Switzerland", "Myanmar"], "title": "Aung San Suu Kyi kicks off European tour in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-06-16T15:46:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Nayef bin Abdul-Aziz al Saud has died in Switzerland following an illness.Nayef, 78, who was next in line to the Saudi throne, died in hospital in Geneva on Saturday, according to Saudi state television.The prince had been interior minister in the kingdom since 1975 and deputy prime minister. He spearheaded the country's post-September 11 crackdown on al-Qaida. He rose to the position of crown prince after the death of his elder brother, Crown Prince Sultan, in October last year.The prince had been ill for some months and had been in Switzerland since May for treatment. He had undergone medical tests in the US and although there had been speculation that he had cancer, this has never been officially confirmed.Earlier this month, Nayef's brother and deputy interior minister, Prince Ahmed, told al-Watan newspaper that Nayef was \"well and in good health\u00a0\u2026 and he will soon return\" to Saudi Arabia.Nayef was considered to be more conservative and less keen on reform than his half-brother, the current King Abdullah. However, in 2001, he supported a move to issue women in the kingdom with their own identity cards \u2013 previously they could only be registered on the card of a father or husband.Nayef was initially criticised for shifting the blame from the country following the September 11 attacks, in which 15 of the 19 hijackers were Saudi nationals. It was also reported that he would be listed, along with other members of the royal family, in a lawsuit filed by the victims of the attacks, over claims that family members were engaged in payoffs to al-Qaida, but his name was later to be removed due to diplomatic immunity.In February 2002 there came a change of heart. Under pressure from the US and attacks by Islamist militants within the kingdom \u2013 including a declaration from al-Qaida of its aim to overthrow the Saudi royal family \u2013 Nayef became the first Saudi official to publicly confirm that Saudi nationals were involved in the US attacks.He was later responsible for a successful crackdown of radicals and al-Qaida militants in Saudi Arabia, who were responsible for a wave of bloody attacks in the country between 2003 and 2006. His campaign forced many to flee to neighbouring Yemen.Nayef had also pushed for a more hardline stance towards Iran.King Abdullah said in a statement that funeral prayers would be held for the prince after sunset on Sunday, before a traditional burial. Television channel Al Arabiya reported that his funeral would be held in a mosque in the holy city of Mecca.The succession is likely to pass to another son of the former king, possibly Nayef's younger brother, Prince Salman, who had been governor of Riyadh for nearly five decades before his appointment as defence minister last year.\u2022 This article was amended on 18 June 2012. The original referred to King Abdullah as an uncle, rather than a brother, of Crown Prince Nayef. It also said Prince Salman was governor of Riyadh. He no longer holds that post.", "tags": ["Saudi Arabia", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "Saudi Arabia's Crown Prince Nayef dies"},{"date": "2012-06-13T09:04:19Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Police in Italy, Switzerland and Germany have arrested 10 people suspected of involvement in leftwing terrorist activity in Italy and elsewhere over the past three years.Police sources said the suspects, detained in pre-dawn raids, all had links to one of two shadowy organisations: the Informal Anarchist Federation (FAI) and the International Revolutionary Front (FRI). Warrants issued by a judge in Perugia, in central Italy, accused them of a variety of offences including subversion, terrorist conspiracy and international terrorism.Eight arrests were made in Italy, one in Switzerland, and one in Germany.A senior officer in the semi-militarised Carabinieri police, General Giampaolo Ganzer, said the FAI and FRI were in a position to mount attacks with \"both bombs and firearms\". The general, who commands the Carabinieri's special forces, said the two groups were in contact with the Greek anarchist movement.Those arrested appeared not to have been directly connected with the most serious recent terrorist attack in Italy \u2013 the shooting and wounding last month of a senior executive in the nuclear industry, Roberto Adinolfi of Finmeccanica. But in an interview with the Italian Sky TV network, General Ganzer said: \"The origin is the same.\"The warrants cited other terrorist operations, many of them abortive. These included a failed pipebomb attack on the business-oriented Bocconi university in Milan in 2009; recent blasts outside tax collection offices in different parts of Italy; a parcel bomb intercepted in Frankfurt in 2011 and sent to the then CEO of Deutsche Bank, Josef Ackermann; and, also in 2011, a parcel bomb addressed to the Greek embassy in Paris, which was later defused.More than 40 searches were carried out in Italy alone. Among those taken into custody were two men arrested in 2009 on suspicion of sabotaging an Italian railway line.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Italian police arrest leftwing terror suspects"},{"date": "2012-05-16T19:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Stefano Pessina, the Italian billionaire who co-owns Alliance Boots with private equity firm KKR, has warned the prevailing \"anti-business\" public mood in the UK could deter companies from investing here.The Switzerland based company, which owns Boots the Chemist, has been among those targeted by protest groups such as UK Uncut over its tax affairs. Pessina said the government, which recently cut the corporation tax rate, was \"business friendly\" but added: \"My only regret is the atmosphere in the UK is anti-business and this is not a good thing, because investment means jobs and that's what we need in this country.\"The retail and drugs wholesaler group reported pre-tax profits of \u00a3660m on sales of \u00a323bn in the year to 31 March. The profit figure was depressed by finance charges of \u00a3434m relating to its multibillion-pound debts. The company paid \u00a326m of tax in the UK, which compared with \u00a310m in 2011. That followed a year in which UK trading profits increased more than 5% to \u00a3750m. Its finance director George Fairweather said its tax bill would have been higher had it not received tax relief on contributions made to its pension funds. Interest payments were a \"valid expense for tax purposes\", he added.Alliance Boots has also been using spare cash to cancel its debt which was cut by \u00a3826m to \u00a37bn during the year. No dividend was paid to shareholders.Pessina, who is based in Monaco and is estimated to have a personal fortune of $2.6bn (\u00a31.63bn), said they had invested close to a \u00a31bn in the UK over the last five years and made larger payments to its pension funds than those agreed when the takeover deal was being negotiated. There were countries where it had not invested \"\u00a31 for 10 years or more\" because of the unfavourable business climate, such as higher tax. \"The UK government is doing everything they can to attract business but this criticism, or hitting of business, doesn't put companies in a very favourable position,\" he said.Pessina, 70, said he had no plans to retire or even hire a chief executive to replace Andy Hornby, who unexpectedly quit the \u00a31m-a-year post last year. \"We don't need a CEO,\" he said, adding that the leadership team was so in sync that even his \"leadership is not indispensable anymore\". Pessina, who transformed his family's ailing Naples drug wholesaler into the pharmacy giant Alliance UniChem, which merged with Boots in 2006, also indicated his preferred \"exit\" would be via another merger rather than a fresh stock exchange listing: \"I believe a merger would be better than an IPO,\" he said, explaining that partnerships delivered business synergies.The squeeze on consumer spending coupled with a cut in the amount paid out by the government for dispensing generic medicines made life difficult for Boots the Chemist with like-for-like sales down 1.1% for the year. While demand for its No7 make-up and \"miracle\" face creams held up, the mild winter hit sales of cold and flu remedies with retail health sales down 2.4% at \u00a3891m. \"Sales were impacted by strong competition and lower volumes of cough and cold related non-prescription medicines following a significantly lower incidence of such ailments this winter,\" said Fairweather.", "tags": ["Alliance Boots", "Retail industry", "Business", "UK news"], "title": "Boots owner warns of 'anti-business' mood in Britain"},{"date": "2012-09-19T23:05:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lawyers for a man with locked-in syndrome, who says his life is intolerable and wants help to die, are to take his case to the appeal court within weeks and are then prepared to go to the highest court in the land, the supreme court, if necessary.Martin, as he wishes to be called to protect his privacy, had his original case rejected in August by the high court alongside that of Tony Nicklinson, who was also paralysed by a stroke and unable to speak.Nicklinson, 58, died just six days later, after refusing food and water and contracting pneumonia. But Martin, his wife told the Guardian, will battle on for the right to die.\"He is adamant \u2013 he has been since he had his stroke,\" said his wife, who asked to be called Felicity. \"What he wants has never changed.\"Martin, 47, spends his days lying on a specially adapted bed in the converted garage of the house they share. He can communicate only by picking out letters on a computer screen with his eyes, which a disembodied voice turns into words and phrases. He watches videos of Cornish lighthouses, remembering the helicopter trip of a lifetime he once made to Wolf Rock off Land's End. The rest of the time he watches rugby, steam trains and action films. \"He is just into RoboCop,\" said his wife. \"He used to be an action man. He was always up and ready to go.\"In an interview with the Guardian last year, prior to the high court case, Martin described his life as \"garbage\". Asked what he wanted, he replied \"death\".Martin wants to be able to go to Dignitas in Switzerland, where he could legally be given a lethal cocktail of drugs to end his life. But Felicity, a nurse by training, says she will not and cannot help him.The case prepared by Leigh Day, Martin's lawyers, asked the court to rule that professional people \u2013 lawyers, doctors and carers \u2013 should be allowed to help him make his final journey. In the case brought in 2009 by Debbie Purdy, who has multiple sclerosis, the director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, gave an assurance that her husband, Omar Puente, was unlikely to face prosecution if he helped her travel to Dignitas. But Starmer's concession on family members does not extend to paid professional helpers, the court decided in Martin's case.Rosa Curling of Leigh Day said they would argue in the appeal that the lower court was wrong. \"If you are a professional who helps somebody like Martin, there is a real risk you will be prosecuted. That can't be right,\" she said.The case is different from that brought by Nicklinson, whose widow Jane also says she wishes to appeal. Nicklinson's lawyers argued that a doctor who gave him a lethal drug in the UK should not be prosecuted for murder. The judges said that was an issue for parliament and not the courts.There was one positive element in the judgment. The court ruled that if Martin were to refuse food and drink, he could legally be given pain relief and sedatives by doctors. That, said Felicity, \"has given him some sort of peace. He hasn't changed, but there is a calmness in him now, knowing that he could stop eating and drinking. But it is not the nicest way to end your life for the family or for Martin. It is quite a long-winded and horrible thing.\"She accepts there are some people with locked-in syndrome who would not want to die. \"But for some people it is intolerable to live the life that you hate,\" she said. \"You don't have control over what you do; you can't even scratch an itch. I don't think people realise the devastating effects it has on the person and the family. It is unimaginable.\"When she talks about the impact of the strain and the distress on the family, Felicity begins to cry. Martin has to have 24-hour care, which means sharing their home and their lives with strangers, she says. She has to go out to work part-time to pay the bills. Martin, a proud man, has been stripped of his dignity. He has mood swings and can be angry and then tearful. \"Crying is something he never used to do. He was quite a butch man before, but he can get so frustrated,\" she said. He is not the man she used to know \u2013 that man died four years ago, she says, when he had his massive brainstem stroke.But she does not want to lose him. \"I don't want him to die, but I have to respect his wishes,\" she said.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Tony Nicklinson", "UK news", "Law", "Society"], "title": "Man with locked-in syndrome prepares to appeal for right to assisted death"},{"date": "2012-09-19T23:05:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lawyers for a man with locked-in syndrome, who says his life is intolerable and wants help to die, are to take his case to the appeal court within weeks and are then prepared to go to the highest court in the land, the supreme court, if necessary.Martin, as he wishes to be called to protect his privacy, had his original case rejected in August by the high court alongside that of Tony Nicklinson, who was also paralysed by a stroke and unable to speak.Nicklinson, 58, died just six days later, after refusing food and water and contracting pneumonia. But Martin, his wife told the Guardian, will battle on for the right to die.\"He is adamant \u2013 he has been since he had his stroke,\" said his wife, who asked to be called Felicity. \"What he wants has never changed.\"Martin, 47, spends his days lying on a specially adapted bed in the converted garage of the house they share. He can communicate only by picking out letters on a computer screen with his eyes, which a disembodied voice turns into words and phrases. He watches videos of Cornish lighthouses, remembering the helicopter trip of a lifetime he once made to Wolf Rock off Land's End. The rest of the time he watches rugby, steam trains and action films. \"He is just into RoboCop,\" said his wife. \"He used to be an action man. He was always up and ready to go.\"In an interview with the Guardian last year, prior to the high court case, Martin described his life as \"garbage\". Asked what he wanted, he replied \"death\".Martin wants to be able to go to Dignitas in Switzerland, where he could legally be given a lethal cocktail of drugs to end his life. But Felicity, a nurse by training, says she will not and cannot help him.The case prepared by Leigh Day, Martin's lawyers, asked the court to rule that professional people \u2013 lawyers, doctors and carers \u2013 should be allowed to help him make his final journey. In the case brought in 2009 by Debbie Purdy, who has multiple sclerosis, the director of public prosecutions, Keir Starmer, gave an assurance that her husband, Omar Puente, was unlikely to face prosecution if he helped her travel to Dignitas. But Starmer's concession on family members does not extend to paid professional helpers, the court decided in Martin's case.Rosa Curling of Leigh Day said they would argue in the appeal that the lower court was wrong. \"If you are a professional who helps somebody like Martin, there is a real risk you will be prosecuted. That can't be right,\" she said.The case is different from that brought by Nicklinson, whose widow Jane also says she wishes to appeal. Nicklinson's lawyers argued that a doctor who gave him a lethal drug in the UK should not be prosecuted for murder. The judges said that was an issue for parliament and not the courts.There was one positive element in the judgment. The court ruled that if Martin were to refuse food and drink, he could legally be given pain relief and sedatives by doctors. That, said Felicity, \"has given him some sort of peace. He hasn't changed, but there is a calmness in him now, knowing that he could stop eating and drinking. But it is not the nicest way to end your life for the family or for Martin. It is quite a long-winded and horrible thing.\"She accepts there are some people with locked-in syndrome who would not want to die. \"But for some people it is intolerable to live the life that you hate,\" she said. \"You don't have control over what you do; you can't even scratch an itch. I don't think people realise the devastating effects it has on the person and the family. It is unimaginable.\"When she talks about the impact of the strain and the distress on the family, Felicity begins to cry. Martin has to have 24-hour care, which means sharing their home and their lives with strangers, she says. She has to go out to work part-time to pay the bills. Martin, a proud man, has been stripped of his dignity. He has mood swings and can be angry and then tearful. \"Crying is something he never used to do. He was quite a butch man before, but he can get so frustrated,\" she said. He is not the man she used to know \u2013 that man died four years ago, she says, when he had his massive brainstem stroke.But she does not want to lose him. \"I don't want him to die, but I have to respect his wishes,\" she said.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Tony Nicklinson", "UK news", "Law", "Society"], "title": "Man with locked-in syndrome prepares to appeal for right to assisted death"},{"date": "2012-08-08T13:07:53Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Pakistan's supreme court has paved the way for the dismissal of prime minister Raja Pervaiz Ashraf less than two months after his predecessor was ousted for disobeying the court under identical circumstances.Further inflaming chronic political instability, the court on Wednesday summoned Ashraf to appear on 27 August to explain his refusal to obey its demand that he ask authorities in Switzerland to reopen a money-laundering inquiry against the president, Asif Ali Zardari.The move represents an almost exact rerun of the political and legal saga involving the former prime minister Yousef Raza Gilani, who resisted the demands for months before finally being given a token 30-second jail term by the supreme court.The conviction was enough, after yet more legal wrangling, to force him to stand down from parliament and the premiership in June. The court's demands imperil the hopes of the government, led by the Pakistan People's party, to survive until the end of the year and become the first in the country's history to serve a full five-year term.", "tags": ["Pakistan", "World news"], "title": "Pakistan's PM Raja Pervaiz Ashraf summoned over corruption case"},{"date": "2012-12-09T20:57:40Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The first commodity in which the Swiss dealt was themselves. For centuries they exported mercenaries to fight in other people's wars, a trade which came to an effective end after the Swiss contingent in Napoleon's army was decimated at the battle of Berezina in 1812. The Swiss have since had to find other ways to earn a living and, as with the trade in soldiers, the balance between morality and economic advantage is a hard one to strike.The dark side of Swiss banking was visible again in Westminster last week: as George Osborne delivered his autumn statement he promised to raise \u00a35bn from otherwise obscure Swiss bank accounts. This is the latest chapter in a history which includes the long tussle over the funds of Holocaust survivors, as well as the old charge that Switzerland profited massively from trading with the Nazis. It may also be the first serious sign that the Swiss economic model will have to be tweaked.Even Swiss chocolate, on the surface as innocuous a subject as could be, has been put in the dock in a film which begins with a man chomping happily on a bar of it and then switches to exploited children bringing in the cocoa bean harvest in west Africa. Swiss NGOs have established that the country's chocolate firms are prominent among those dragging their feet on the implementation of a protocol which was supposed to outlaw such activities. As a report in this paper last week underlined, the whole field of commodities trading has become a subject of controversy in the federation.Swiss dealing in commodities like oil, copper and zinc, as well as food items like sugar, coffee and grain, has grown massively in the last 10 years. The concern is that light Swiss regulation is allowing companies to get away with some things which they would not be able to get away with elsewhere. A government commission is due to report soon, but some Swiss are concerned it will not go far enough. They want legislation to make Swiss parent companies legally liable for human rights and environmental offences abroad.It comes as no surprise to find that Darth Vader's mask was based on an old Swiss infantry helmet, or that a Swiss artist has imaginatively reworked Vader's headgear with motifs of clocks, cows and rustic figures. The world is of course addicted to a Jekyll and Hyde view of the Swiss republic. The truth is that Switzerland's faults shrink in significance when compared with the way the Swiss have turned their neutrality into an asset benefiting the whole world, the most obvious example being the Red Cross. The contradictions they display are similar to those in other trading states, including Britain, with which there are some close parallels, and their record in dealing with them is no worse and, in some ways, better.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland: inside the chocolate box | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-12-09T20:57:40Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The first commodity in which the Swiss dealt was themselves. For centuries they exported mercenaries to fight in other people's wars, a trade which came to an effective end after the Swiss contingent in Napoleon's army was decimated at the battle of Berezina in 1812. The Swiss have since had to find other ways to earn a living and, as with the trade in soldiers, the balance between morality and economic advantage is a hard one to strike.The dark side of Swiss banking was visible again in Westminster last week: as George Osborne delivered his autumn statement he promised to raise \u00a35bn from otherwise obscure Swiss bank accounts. This is the latest chapter in a history which includes the long tussle over the funds of Holocaust survivors, as well as the old charge that Switzerland profited massively from trading with the Nazis. It may also be the first serious sign that the Swiss economic model will have to be tweaked.Even Swiss chocolate, on the surface as innocuous a subject as could be, has been put in the dock in a film which begins with a man chomping happily on a bar of it and then switches to exploited children bringing in the cocoa bean harvest in west Africa. Swiss NGOs have established that the country's chocolate firms are prominent among those dragging their feet on the implementation of a protocol which was supposed to outlaw such activities. As a report in this paper last week underlined, the whole field of commodities trading has become a subject of controversy in the federation.Swiss dealing in commodities like oil, copper and zinc, as well as food items like sugar, coffee and grain, has grown massively in the last 10 years. The concern is that light Swiss regulation is allowing companies to get away with some things which they would not be able to get away with elsewhere. A government commission is due to report soon, but some Swiss are concerned it will not go far enough. They want legislation to make Swiss parent companies legally liable for human rights and environmental offences abroad.It comes as no surprise to find that Darth Vader's mask was based on an old Swiss infantry helmet, or that a Swiss artist has imaginatively reworked Vader's headgear with motifs of clocks, cows and rustic figures. The world is of course addicted to a Jekyll and Hyde view of the Swiss republic. The truth is that Switzerland's faults shrink in significance when compared with the way the Swiss have turned their neutrality into an asset benefiting the whole world, the most obvious example being the Red Cross. The contradictions they display are similar to those in other trading states, including Britain, with which there are some close parallels, and their record in dealing with them is no worse and, in some ways, better.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland: inside the chocolate box | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-11-26T10:37:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller and 10 members of his band have been injured following a serious bus crash in Switzerland. The driver of the vehicle died in the accident, but none of the other passengers appeared to have life-threatening injuries.After performing in Monaco on Saturday night, the Marcus Miller Band was en route to Hengelo, in the Netherlands, for a gig. Driving down the A2 motorway, near the Swiss town of Schattdorf, the bus reportedly toppled as it went around a bend. The bus was carrying 13 people \u2013 the driver, a reserve driver, Miller, his band and crew. The survivors were all taken to hospital. Miller and two others were soon released, his manager said on Facebook, while others will be kept overnight under observation.Police confirmed that no other vehicles were involved in the crash but did not give details of the cause of the accident.Miller, 53, is a two-time Grammy winner and one of the most celebrated session musicians in jazz and R&B. Born in New York, he has worked as a producer, composer and musician, assisting artists including Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Michael Jackson, Frank Sinatra and Aretha Franklin. His most recent LP, Renaissance, includes covers of the Jackson Five's I'll Be There and Janelle Mon\u00e1e's Tightrope.", "tags": ["Jazz", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller injured in bus crash in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-12-09T20:57:40Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The first commodity in which the Swiss dealt was themselves. For centuries they exported mercenaries to fight in other people's wars, a trade which came to an effective end after the Swiss contingent in Napoleon's army was decimated at the battle of Berezina in 1812. The Swiss have since had to find other ways to earn a living and, as with the trade in soldiers, the balance between morality and economic advantage is a hard one to strike.The dark side of Swiss banking was visible again in Westminster last week: as George Osborne delivered his autumn statement he promised to raise \u00a35bn from otherwise obscure Swiss bank accounts. This is the latest chapter in a history which includes the long tussle over the funds of Holocaust survivors, as well as the old charge that Switzerland profited massively from trading with the Nazis. It may also be the first serious sign that the Swiss economic model will have to be tweaked.Even Swiss chocolate, on the surface as innocuous a subject as could be, has been put in the dock in a film which begins with a man chomping happily on a bar of it and then switches to exploited children bringing in the cocoa bean harvest in west Africa. Swiss NGOs have established that the country's chocolate firms are prominent among those dragging their feet on the implementation of a protocol which was supposed to outlaw such activities. As a report in this paper last week underlined, the whole field of commodities trading has become a subject of controversy in the federation.Swiss dealing in commodities like oil, copper and zinc, as well as food items like sugar, coffee and grain, has grown massively in the last 10 years. The concern is that light Swiss regulation is allowing companies to get away with some things which they would not be able to get away with elsewhere. A government commission is due to report soon, but some Swiss are concerned it will not go far enough. They want legislation to make Swiss parent companies legally liable for human rights and environmental offences abroad.It comes as no surprise to find that Darth Vader's mask was based on an old Swiss infantry helmet, or that a Swiss artist has imaginatively reworked Vader's headgear with motifs of clocks, cows and rustic figures. The world is of course addicted to a Jekyll and Hyde view of the Swiss republic. The truth is that Switzerland's faults shrink in significance when compared with the way the Swiss have turned their neutrality into an asset benefiting the whole world, the most obvious example being the Red Cross. The contradictions they display are similar to those in other trading states, including Britain, with which there are some close parallels, and their record in dealing with them is no worse and, in some ways, better.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland: inside the chocolate box | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-11-26T10:37:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller and 10 members of his band have been injured following a serious bus crash in Switzerland. The driver of the vehicle died in the accident, but none of the other passengers appeared to have life-threatening injuries.After performing in Monaco on Saturday night, the Marcus Miller Band was en route to Hengelo, in the Netherlands, for a gig. Driving down the A2 motorway, near the Swiss town of Schattdorf, the bus reportedly toppled as it went around a bend. The bus was carrying 13 people \u2013 the driver, a reserve driver, Miller, his band and crew. The survivors were all taken to hospital. Miller and two others were soon released, his manager said on Facebook, while others will be kept overnight under observation.Police confirmed that no other vehicles were involved in the crash but did not give details of the cause of the accident.Miller, 53, is a two-time Grammy winner and one of the most celebrated session musicians in jazz and R&B. Born in New York, he has worked as a producer, composer and musician, assisting artists including Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Michael Jackson, Frank Sinatra and Aretha Franklin. His most recent LP, Renaissance, includes covers of the Jackson Five's I'll Be There and Janelle Mon\u00e1e's Tightrope.", "tags": ["Jazz", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller injured in bus crash in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-11-22T21:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The world is seeing the first stirrings of an emerging new architecture of global transparency in taxation which could, if pushed forwards, help governments for the first time raise serious revenues from the estimated $21-32 trillion sitting offshore. Switzerland, in alliance with the tax havens of Luxembourg, Austria and Britain, is leading the charge to derail it.The battle now under way hinges on a powerful transparency principle called automatic information exchange. According to this, governments routinely tell each other about the cross-border assets and income of one another's citizens so they can tax them appropriately. This is the gold standard of transparency and the basis for a multilateral European scheme, the European Savings Tax Directive, which includes 42 European and other countries. This multilateral scheme is riddled with loopholes, but it is already up and running. Amendments to plug those loopholes are being prepared.A second pillar of the emerging architecture is run by the OECD, a club of rich countries that contains several tax havens (including Britain, which partly controls a number of major tax havens, such as the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Jersey).The OECD scheme runs on a ridiculously weak transparency principle: information exchange on request. Here, you cannot make blanket information requests to a tax haven: you must ask, on a case-by-case basis. That means you effectively have to know the information you are looking for \u2013 before you ask for it. Precious little information flows through these narrow pipes.The OECD also runs a black, white and\u00a0grey list system of tax havens. To get a sense of how useful this list is, note that in April 2009, when G20 leaders declared that \"the era of banking secrecy is over\" and asked the OECD to lead the charge, the blacklist was empty within just five days. The G20 asked the OECD to drain a swamp \u2013 and it has been handing out drinking straws. The project helps at the margins, but is not a patch on the European scheme.The United States is creating a third pillar under its Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires financial institutions to tell the authorities about foreign accounts held by American taxpayers. Like the European system, it runs on the principle of automatic information exchange and, although originally set up unilaterally, the US is now pushing for reciprocal arrangements with other countries. Over\u00a0time, one would expect rising co-operation and cross-linkages between the trailblazing US and European schemes, and with others.In August last year, Switzerland threw a huge spanner into the works. It signed bilateral tax deals \u2013 \"Rubik agreements\" \u2013 with Germany and Britain, based on a very different principle: wealthy people with Swiss accounts can preserve their secrecy and, instead, merely pay a one-off, withholding tax on assets, and a bit of future income. \"Trust us,\" say Swiss bankers \u2013 who have centuries of form helping the world's wealthy get around the rules of civilised society.The British tax authorities promised it would yield a tantalising bounty: a one-off \u00a34-\u00a37bn for cash-parched, austerity Britain. But the deals are riddled with catastrophic loopholes, some so egregious as to amount to signs planted in the text saying: \"Evade me here\". You can skip around them with discretionary trusts, foundations, insurance wrappers, offshore companies and more \u2013 or just shift your wealth to Singapore.A forensic analysis by the Tax Justice Network last year revealed that Britain's Rubik would not raise even a tenth of the promised sum. The analysis was sent to HMRC, to the Swiss tax authorities, to Swiss bankers and to several tax advisers. None could refute it. HMRC's response? It has kept its head down.The Rubik project is a Swiss swindle \u2013 and a humiliation for this government. If successful it would, in the words of Professor Itai Grinberg of Georgetown University, \"stifle the emergence of multilateral automatic information exchange\". The Swiss Bankers' Association, which designed Rubik, has\u00a0explicitly admitted that its original purpose was \"to prevent\" automatic information exchange: in other words, to kill the European Savings Tax Directive. In particular, crucial and powerful amendments to plug the directive's loopholes are now held up because Luxembourg says it won't accept them if Germany and Britain (and now the tax haven of Austria, which has signed its own Rubik deal) get special bilateral treatment from Switzerland. This obstructionism was the plan all along. EU tax commissioner Algirdas Semeta recently slammed Luxembourg's and Austria's involvement in this political chess game. \"I cannot understand,\" he\u00a0said, \"that anyone would make even more difficult the consolidation efforts by Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain and many other member states by\u00a0holding up this issue.\"Thankfully, Germany's Bundesrat is widely expected to throw its Rubik deal\u00a0out in a vote on Friday. The deal, forcefully supported by finance minister\u00a0Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble for reasons best known to himself, has\u00a0been attacked by German opposition politicians. A top Green party\u00a0official called it \"a slap in the face for all honest\u00a0taxpayers\"; and the head of the centre-left Social Democratic party, has accused Swiss banks of engaging in\u00a0\"organised crime\". If Germany rejects\u00a0the deal, as seems likely, Austria\u00a0will be easily dealt with, leaving Britain alone as the last big obstacle to progress in the greatest transparency project the world has seen.Chancellor George Osborne in his budget speech in April described tax evasion and avoidance as \"morally repugnant\". But his tax deal with Switzerland, as a fiscally useless spoiler, is a tax evader's dream. This government must repudiate it\u00a0immediately. If it doesn't, Labour must commit to abolishing it \u2013 or hang\u00a0its own head in shame.", "tags": ["US taxation", "US news", "US economy", "World news", "Tax", "Money", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "OECD", "Global economy", "Business"], "title": "A scheme designed to net trillions from global tax havens is being scuppered | Nicholas Shaxson"},{"date": "2012-12-09T20:57:40Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The first commodity in which the Swiss dealt was themselves. For centuries they exported mercenaries to fight in other people's wars, a trade which came to an effective end after the Swiss contingent in Napoleon's army was decimated at the battle of Berezina in 1812. The Swiss have since had to find other ways to earn a living and, as with the trade in soldiers, the balance between morality and economic advantage is a hard one to strike.The dark side of Swiss banking was visible again in Westminster last week: as George Osborne delivered his autumn statement he promised to raise \u00a35bn from otherwise obscure Swiss bank accounts. This is the latest chapter in a history which includes the long tussle over the funds of Holocaust survivors, as well as the old charge that Switzerland profited massively from trading with the Nazis. It may also be the first serious sign that the Swiss economic model will have to be tweaked.Even Swiss chocolate, on the surface as innocuous a subject as could be, has been put in the dock in a film which begins with a man chomping happily on a bar of it and then switches to exploited children bringing in the cocoa bean harvest in west Africa. Swiss NGOs have established that the country's chocolate firms are prominent among those dragging their feet on the implementation of a protocol which was supposed to outlaw such activities. As a report in this paper last week underlined, the whole field of commodities trading has become a subject of controversy in the federation.Swiss dealing in commodities like oil, copper and zinc, as well as food items like sugar, coffee and grain, has grown massively in the last 10 years. The concern is that light Swiss regulation is allowing companies to get away with some things which they would not be able to get away with elsewhere. A government commission is due to report soon, but some Swiss are concerned it will not go far enough. They want legislation to make Swiss parent companies legally liable for human rights and environmental offences abroad.It comes as no surprise to find that Darth Vader's mask was based on an old Swiss infantry helmet, or that a Swiss artist has imaginatively reworked Vader's headgear with motifs of clocks, cows and rustic figures. The world is of course addicted to a Jekyll and Hyde view of the Swiss republic. The truth is that Switzerland's faults shrink in significance when compared with the way the Swiss have turned their neutrality into an asset benefiting the whole world, the most obvious example being the Red Cross. The contradictions they display are similar to those in other trading states, including Britain, with which there are some close parallels, and their record in dealing with them is no worse and, in some ways, better.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland: inside the chocolate box | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-11-26T10:37:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller and 10 members of his band have been injured following a serious bus crash in Switzerland. The driver of the vehicle died in the accident, but none of the other passengers appeared to have life-threatening injuries.After performing in Monaco on Saturday night, the Marcus Miller Band was en route to Hengelo, in the Netherlands, for a gig. Driving down the A2 motorway, near the Swiss town of Schattdorf, the bus reportedly toppled as it went around a bend. The bus was carrying 13 people \u2013 the driver, a reserve driver, Miller, his band and crew. The survivors were all taken to hospital. Miller and two others were soon released, his manager said on Facebook, while others will be kept overnight under observation.Police confirmed that no other vehicles were involved in the crash but did not give details of the cause of the accident.Miller, 53, is a two-time Grammy winner and one of the most celebrated session musicians in jazz and R&B. Born in New York, he has worked as a producer, composer and musician, assisting artists including Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Michael Jackson, Frank Sinatra and Aretha Franklin. His most recent LP, Renaissance, includes covers of the Jackson Five's I'll Be There and Janelle Mon\u00e1e's Tightrope.", "tags": ["Jazz", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller injured in bus crash in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-11-22T21:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The world is seeing the first stirrings of an emerging new architecture of global transparency in taxation which could, if pushed forwards, help governments for the first time raise serious revenues from the estimated $21-32 trillion sitting offshore. Switzerland, in alliance with the tax havens of Luxembourg, Austria and Britain, is leading the charge to derail it.The battle now under way hinges on a powerful transparency principle called automatic information exchange. According to this, governments routinely tell each other about the cross-border assets and income of one another's citizens so they can tax them appropriately. This is the gold standard of transparency and the basis for a multilateral European scheme, the European Savings Tax Directive, which includes 42 European and other countries. This multilateral scheme is riddled with loopholes, but it is already up and running. Amendments to plug those loopholes are being prepared.A second pillar of the emerging architecture is run by the OECD, a club of rich countries that contains several tax havens (including Britain, which partly controls a number of major tax havens, such as the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Jersey).The OECD scheme runs on a ridiculously weak transparency principle: information exchange on request. Here, you cannot make blanket information requests to a tax haven: you must ask, on a case-by-case basis. That means you effectively have to know the information you are looking for \u2013 before you ask for it. Precious little information flows through these narrow pipes.The OECD also runs a black, white and\u00a0grey list system of tax havens. To get a sense of how useful this list is, note that in April 2009, when G20 leaders declared that \"the era of banking secrecy is over\" and asked the OECD to lead the charge, the blacklist was empty within just five days. The G20 asked the OECD to drain a swamp \u2013 and it has been handing out drinking straws. The project helps at the margins, but is not a patch on the European scheme.The United States is creating a third pillar under its Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires financial institutions to tell the authorities about foreign accounts held by American taxpayers. Like the European system, it runs on the principle of automatic information exchange and, although originally set up unilaterally, the US is now pushing for reciprocal arrangements with other countries. Over\u00a0time, one would expect rising co-operation and cross-linkages between the trailblazing US and European schemes, and with others.In August last year, Switzerland threw a huge spanner into the works. It signed bilateral tax deals \u2013 \"Rubik agreements\" \u2013 with Germany and Britain, based on a very different principle: wealthy people with Swiss accounts can preserve their secrecy and, instead, merely pay a one-off, withholding tax on assets, and a bit of future income. \"Trust us,\" say Swiss bankers \u2013 who have centuries of form helping the world's wealthy get around the rules of civilised society.The British tax authorities promised it would yield a tantalising bounty: a one-off \u00a34-\u00a37bn for cash-parched, austerity Britain. But the deals are riddled with catastrophic loopholes, some so egregious as to amount to signs planted in the text saying: \"Evade me here\". You can skip around them with discretionary trusts, foundations, insurance wrappers, offshore companies and more \u2013 or just shift your wealth to Singapore.A forensic analysis by the Tax Justice Network last year revealed that Britain's Rubik would not raise even a tenth of the promised sum. The analysis was sent to HMRC, to the Swiss tax authorities, to Swiss bankers and to several tax advisers. None could refute it. HMRC's response? It has kept its head down.The Rubik project is a Swiss swindle \u2013 and a humiliation for this government. If successful it would, in the words of Professor Itai Grinberg of Georgetown University, \"stifle the emergence of multilateral automatic information exchange\". The Swiss Bankers' Association, which designed Rubik, has\u00a0explicitly admitted that its original purpose was \"to prevent\" automatic information exchange: in other words, to kill the European Savings Tax Directive. In particular, crucial and powerful amendments to plug the directive's loopholes are now held up because Luxembourg says it won't accept them if Germany and Britain (and now the tax haven of Austria, which has signed its own Rubik deal) get special bilateral treatment from Switzerland. This obstructionism was the plan all along. EU tax commissioner Algirdas Semeta recently slammed Luxembourg's and Austria's involvement in this political chess game. \"I cannot understand,\" he\u00a0said, \"that anyone would make even more difficult the consolidation efforts by Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain and many other member states by\u00a0holding up this issue.\"Thankfully, Germany's Bundesrat is widely expected to throw its Rubik deal\u00a0out in a vote on Friday. The deal, forcefully supported by finance minister\u00a0Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble for reasons best known to himself, has\u00a0been attacked by German opposition politicians. A top Green party\u00a0official called it \"a slap in the face for all honest\u00a0taxpayers\"; and the head of the centre-left Social Democratic party, has accused Swiss banks of engaging in\u00a0\"organised crime\". If Germany rejects\u00a0the deal, as seems likely, Austria\u00a0will be easily dealt with, leaving Britain alone as the last big obstacle to progress in the greatest transparency project the world has seen.Chancellor George Osborne in his budget speech in April described tax evasion and avoidance as \"morally repugnant\". But his tax deal with Switzerland, as a fiscally useless spoiler, is a tax evader's dream. This government must repudiate it\u00a0immediately. If it doesn't, Labour must commit to abolishing it \u2013 or hang\u00a0its own head in shame.", "tags": ["US taxation", "US news", "US economy", "World news", "Tax", "Money", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "OECD", "Global economy", "Business"], "title": "A scheme designed to net trillions from global tax havens is being scuppered | Nicholas Shaxson"},{"date": "2012-12-30T19:45:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lovers, friends, flaneurs and everyday life feature in this major exhibition devoted to \u00c9douard Manet's portraits. His models include Proust, Zola and Mallarm\u00e9, street singers and top-hatted Amazonians. Manet may have been a stylist of the emerging modern world, but his everyday was unlike yours or mine. Royal Academy, London W1 (royalacademy.org.uk), 26 January to 14 April.Ceramics and knitted paintings, zoological specimens and amateur pieces, collaborations with and works by other artists \u2013 all have a place in Trockel's universe. The German's mercurial work is both playful and feminist; she is an indomitable talent who refuses categories. Serpentine Gallery, London W2 (serpentinegallery.org), 13 February to 7 April.Modernist socialist architecture in the former Yugoslavia, ruins of utopia and dreams that turned to dust inform the Croatian artist Maljkovic's strange, sometimes controversial art. His atmospheric installations and films plunge us into architectures of the mind \u2013 as well as futures that never happened. Baltic, Gateshead (balticmill.com), 15 March to 7 July.British artist and film-maker McQueen won the Turner prize in 1999, and the Camera d'Or at Cannes in 2008 for his film Hunger. He has been a war artist in Afghanistan, shot films in South African goldmines and turned his eye on sexual addiction. The big surprise is not why this major retrospective has travelled from Chicago to Switzerland, but why it isn't coming to the UK. Unmissable. Schaulager, Basel (schaulager.org), 16 March to 1\u00a0September.People complain that LS Lowry isn't given his due. Now big-gun art historians TJ Clark and Anne Wagner reappraise Lowry, showing him not so much as an eccentric loner but an artist who drew as much from 19th-century French art as he did from his daily grind as a rent collector. Much more than postcard cliche, Lowry was a social commentator and a painter of haunting land and seascapes, as well as of the mad and the miserable. Tate Britain, London SW1 (tate.org.uk), 25\u00a0June to 20 October.The Mexican artist Orozco is known for many kinds of work: drawings on skulls and whale skeletons, moulded clay hearts, his photographic series and games with objects. But as well as a feel for materials, Orozco has an interest in geometry and structure, and this show thinks through his use of the circular motif. Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh (fruitmarket.co.uk), 1 August to 20\u00a0October.This African-American artist's work is delicate yet ferocious, tackling racial and gender politics, slavery and white suprematism in America's south with cut-paper silhouettes and room-sized tableaux. Watercolours, drawings, text, film and new paper works are all included in her first and long overdue major British show. Camden Arts Centre, London NW 3 (camdenartscentre.org), 11 October to 5\u00a0January 2014.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Steve McQueen", "\u00c9douard Manet", "LS Lowry", "Gabriel Orozco", "Painting", "Ceramics", "Installation", "Culture"], "title": "2013 visual art preview: Manet's portraits and Lowry reappraised"},{"date": "2012-12-09T20:57:40Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The first commodity in which the Swiss dealt was themselves. For centuries they exported mercenaries to fight in other people's wars, a trade which came to an effective end after the Swiss contingent in Napoleon's army was decimated at the battle of Berezina in 1812. The Swiss have since had to find other ways to earn a living and, as with the trade in soldiers, the balance between morality and economic advantage is a hard one to strike.The dark side of Swiss banking was visible again in Westminster last week: as George Osborne delivered his autumn statement he promised to raise \u00a35bn from otherwise obscure Swiss bank accounts. This is the latest chapter in a history which includes the long tussle over the funds of Holocaust survivors, as well as the old charge that Switzerland profited massively from trading with the Nazis. It may also be the first serious sign that the Swiss economic model will have to be tweaked.Even Swiss chocolate, on the surface as innocuous a subject as could be, has been put in the dock in a film which begins with a man chomping happily on a bar of it and then switches to exploited children bringing in the cocoa bean harvest in west Africa. Swiss NGOs have established that the country's chocolate firms are prominent among those dragging their feet on the implementation of a protocol which was supposed to outlaw such activities. As a report in this paper last week underlined, the whole field of commodities trading has become a subject of controversy in the federation.Swiss dealing in commodities like oil, copper and zinc, as well as food items like sugar, coffee and grain, has grown massively in the last 10 years. The concern is that light Swiss regulation is allowing companies to get away with some things which they would not be able to get away with elsewhere. A government commission is due to report soon, but some Swiss are concerned it will not go far enough. They want legislation to make Swiss parent companies legally liable for human rights and environmental offences abroad.It comes as no surprise to find that Darth Vader's mask was based on an old Swiss infantry helmet, or that a Swiss artist has imaginatively reworked Vader's headgear with motifs of clocks, cows and rustic figures. The world is of course addicted to a Jekyll and Hyde view of the Swiss republic. The truth is that Switzerland's faults shrink in significance when compared with the way the Swiss have turned their neutrality into an asset benefiting the whole world, the most obvious example being the Red Cross. The contradictions they display are similar to those in other trading states, including Britain, with which there are some close parallels, and their record in dealing with them is no worse and, in some ways, better.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland: inside the chocolate box | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-11-26T10:37:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller and 10 members of his band have been injured following a serious bus crash in Switzerland. The driver of the vehicle died in the accident, but none of the other passengers appeared to have life-threatening injuries.After performing in Monaco on Saturday night, the Marcus Miller Band was en route to Hengelo, in the Netherlands, for a gig. Driving down the A2 motorway, near the Swiss town of Schattdorf, the bus reportedly toppled as it went around a bend. The bus was carrying 13 people \u2013 the driver, a reserve driver, Miller, his band and crew. The survivors were all taken to hospital. Miller and two others were soon released, his manager said on Facebook, while others will be kept overnight under observation.Police confirmed that no other vehicles were involved in the crash but did not give details of the cause of the accident.Miller, 53, is a two-time Grammy winner and one of the most celebrated session musicians in jazz and R&B. Born in New York, he has worked as a producer, composer and musician, assisting artists including Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Michael Jackson, Frank Sinatra and Aretha Franklin. His most recent LP, Renaissance, includes covers of the Jackson Five's I'll Be There and Janelle Mon\u00e1e's Tightrope.", "tags": ["Jazz", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller injured in bus crash in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-11-22T21:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The world is seeing the first stirrings of an emerging new architecture of global transparency in taxation which could, if pushed forwards, help governments for the first time raise serious revenues from the estimated $21-32 trillion sitting offshore. Switzerland, in alliance with the tax havens of Luxembourg, Austria and Britain, is leading the charge to derail it.The battle now under way hinges on a powerful transparency principle called automatic information exchange. According to this, governments routinely tell each other about the cross-border assets and income of one another's citizens so they can tax them appropriately. This is the gold standard of transparency and the basis for a multilateral European scheme, the European Savings Tax Directive, which includes 42 European and other countries. This multilateral scheme is riddled with loopholes, but it is already up and running. Amendments to plug those loopholes are being prepared.A second pillar of the emerging architecture is run by the OECD, a club of rich countries that contains several tax havens (including Britain, which partly controls a number of major tax havens, such as the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Jersey).The OECD scheme runs on a ridiculously weak transparency principle: information exchange on request. Here, you cannot make blanket information requests to a tax haven: you must ask, on a case-by-case basis. That means you effectively have to know the information you are looking for \u2013 before you ask for it. Precious little information flows through these narrow pipes.The OECD also runs a black, white and\u00a0grey list system of tax havens. To get a sense of how useful this list is, note that in April 2009, when G20 leaders declared that \"the era of banking secrecy is over\" and asked the OECD to lead the charge, the blacklist was empty within just five days. The G20 asked the OECD to drain a swamp \u2013 and it has been handing out drinking straws. The project helps at the margins, but is not a patch on the European scheme.The United States is creating a third pillar under its Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires financial institutions to tell the authorities about foreign accounts held by American taxpayers. Like the European system, it runs on the principle of automatic information exchange and, although originally set up unilaterally, the US is now pushing for reciprocal arrangements with other countries. Over\u00a0time, one would expect rising co-operation and cross-linkages between the trailblazing US and European schemes, and with others.In August last year, Switzerland threw a huge spanner into the works. It signed bilateral tax deals \u2013 \"Rubik agreements\" \u2013 with Germany and Britain, based on a very different principle: wealthy people with Swiss accounts can preserve their secrecy and, instead, merely pay a one-off, withholding tax on assets, and a bit of future income. \"Trust us,\" say Swiss bankers \u2013 who have centuries of form helping the world's wealthy get around the rules of civilised society.The British tax authorities promised it would yield a tantalising bounty: a one-off \u00a34-\u00a37bn for cash-parched, austerity Britain. But the deals are riddled with catastrophic loopholes, some so egregious as to amount to signs planted in the text saying: \"Evade me here\". You can skip around them with discretionary trusts, foundations, insurance wrappers, offshore companies and more \u2013 or just shift your wealth to Singapore.A forensic analysis by the Tax Justice Network last year revealed that Britain's Rubik would not raise even a tenth of the promised sum. The analysis was sent to HMRC, to the Swiss tax authorities, to Swiss bankers and to several tax advisers. None could refute it. HMRC's response? It has kept its head down.The Rubik project is a Swiss swindle \u2013 and a humiliation for this government. If successful it would, in the words of Professor Itai Grinberg of Georgetown University, \"stifle the emergence of multilateral automatic information exchange\". The Swiss Bankers' Association, which designed Rubik, has\u00a0explicitly admitted that its original purpose was \"to prevent\" automatic information exchange: in other words, to kill the European Savings Tax Directive. In particular, crucial and powerful amendments to plug the directive's loopholes are now held up because Luxembourg says it won't accept them if Germany and Britain (and now the tax haven of Austria, which has signed its own Rubik deal) get special bilateral treatment from Switzerland. This obstructionism was the plan all along. EU tax commissioner Algirdas Semeta recently slammed Luxembourg's and Austria's involvement in this political chess game. \"I cannot understand,\" he\u00a0said, \"that anyone would make even more difficult the consolidation efforts by Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain and many other member states by\u00a0holding up this issue.\"Thankfully, Germany's Bundesrat is widely expected to throw its Rubik deal\u00a0out in a vote on Friday. The deal, forcefully supported by finance minister\u00a0Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble for reasons best known to himself, has\u00a0been attacked by German opposition politicians. A top Green party\u00a0official called it \"a slap in the face for all honest\u00a0taxpayers\"; and the head of the centre-left Social Democratic party, has accused Swiss banks of engaging in\u00a0\"organised crime\". If Germany rejects\u00a0the deal, as seems likely, Austria\u00a0will be easily dealt with, leaving Britain alone as the last big obstacle to progress in the greatest transparency project the world has seen.Chancellor George Osborne in his budget speech in April described tax evasion and avoidance as \"morally repugnant\". But his tax deal with Switzerland, as a fiscally useless spoiler, is a tax evader's dream. This government must repudiate it\u00a0immediately. If it doesn't, Labour must commit to abolishing it \u2013 or hang\u00a0its own head in shame.", "tags": ["US taxation", "US news", "US economy", "World news", "Tax", "Money", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "OECD", "Global economy", "Business"], "title": "A scheme designed to net trillions from global tax havens is being scuppered | Nicholas Shaxson"},{"date": "2012-12-30T19:45:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lovers, friends, flaneurs and everyday life feature in this major exhibition devoted to \u00c9douard Manet's portraits. His models include Proust, Zola and Mallarm\u00e9, street singers and top-hatted Amazonians. Manet may have been a stylist of the emerging modern world, but his everyday was unlike yours or mine. Royal Academy, London W1 (royalacademy.org.uk), 26 January to 14 April.Ceramics and knitted paintings, zoological specimens and amateur pieces, collaborations with and works by other artists \u2013 all have a place in Trockel's universe. The German's mercurial work is both playful and feminist; she is an indomitable talent who refuses categories. Serpentine Gallery, London W2 (serpentinegallery.org), 13 February to 7 April.Modernist socialist architecture in the former Yugoslavia, ruins of utopia and dreams that turned to dust inform the Croatian artist Maljkovic's strange, sometimes controversial art. His atmospheric installations and films plunge us into architectures of the mind \u2013 as well as futures that never happened. Baltic, Gateshead (balticmill.com), 15 March to 7 July.British artist and film-maker McQueen won the Turner prize in 1999, and the Camera d'Or at Cannes in 2008 for his film Hunger. He has been a war artist in Afghanistan, shot films in South African goldmines and turned his eye on sexual addiction. The big surprise is not why this major retrospective has travelled from Chicago to Switzerland, but why it isn't coming to the UK. Unmissable. Schaulager, Basel (schaulager.org), 16 March to 1\u00a0September.People complain that LS Lowry isn't given his due. Now big-gun art historians TJ Clark and Anne Wagner reappraise Lowry, showing him not so much as an eccentric loner but an artist who drew as much from 19th-century French art as he did from his daily grind as a rent collector. Much more than postcard cliche, Lowry was a social commentator and a painter of haunting land and seascapes, as well as of the mad and the miserable. Tate Britain, London SW1 (tate.org.uk), 25\u00a0June to 20 October.The Mexican artist Orozco is known for many kinds of work: drawings on skulls and whale skeletons, moulded clay hearts, his photographic series and games with objects. But as well as a feel for materials, Orozco has an interest in geometry and structure, and this show thinks through his use of the circular motif. Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh (fruitmarket.co.uk), 1 August to 20\u00a0October.This African-American artist's work is delicate yet ferocious, tackling racial and gender politics, slavery and white suprematism in America's south with cut-paper silhouettes and room-sized tableaux. Watercolours, drawings, text, film and new paper works are all included in her first and long overdue major British show. Camden Arts Centre, London NW 3 (camdenartscentre.org), 11 October to 5\u00a0January 2014.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Steve McQueen", "\u00c9douard Manet", "LS Lowry", "Gabriel Orozco", "Painting", "Ceramics", "Installation", "Culture"], "title": "2013 visual art preview: Manet's portraits and Lowry reappraised"},{"date": "2012-12-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Vietnamese island of Phu Quoc has a new international airport (phuquoc-airport.com), replacing a domestic one built by the French in the 1930s. VietJetAir (vietjetair.com) will start flying there from Bangkok in February, and Air Mekong and several other airlines are also sniffing around. Among idyllic places to stay is the Mango Bay collection of 40 thatched huts, from \u00a325 a night through i-escape.com.Hamburg's Town Hall Christmas market is the world's first to be run by clowns \u2013 professional clowns, that is. Performers from Germany's Circus Roncalli are serving punch and selling gifts to visitors at the market, and there are circus- themed stalls.\u2022 10am-9pm daily to 23 December. Easyjet (easyjet.com) has returns from Gatwick from \u00a3112A family of four can take a last-minute trip to see Santa in Lapland for \u00a31,399, including return flights from Gatwick on 11 December. The price includes three nights' half-board at Hotel Tunturi in Saariselk\u00e4, a reindeer sleigh ride, husky sledging, and a private meeting with the big man.\u2022 01483 791945, santaslapland.com\u2022 Bangkok, Thailand 34C\u2022 Cochin, India 32C\u2022 Dakar, Senegal 29C\u2022 Buenos Aires, Argentina 29C\u2022 Tucson, Arizona, US 21CHotel room for ladsBoys who love toys will love the new GAME Pad at Staybridge Suites London Stratford City hotel, where one room is equipped with three gaming zones for Xbox, PS3 and Wii, each with a 40-inch TV and all the latest games. There are also two additional TVs, plus a fridge stocked with beers and pizzas. Book now for stays in January for \u00a3199. \u2022 game.co.uk/gamepadLanding soon \u2026The first scheduled service from the UK featuring Boeing's latest plane, the Dreamliner, will start next week. Qatar Airways has taken delivery of the 254-seater, which will fly from Doha to Heathrow from Thursday. Boeing says its 787, which is almost entirely made of composite materials, making it lighter and more fuel-efficient, is one of the world's greenest long-haul aircraft. Qatar has ordered 60 Dreamliners, which have technology that lets all passengers use the internet and send text messages.FlightsMonarch Airlines has added 17,500 extra seats over the Christmas period (19\u00a0December-9\u00a0January) to its most popular destinations of Faro, Lanzarote, Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Gibraltar, Alicante and Malaga, from four UK airports, to meet increased demand from Brits with the winter blues.\u2022 monarch.co.ukNew mag for ChinaCond\u00e9 Nast Traveller magazine is to launch in China in March 2013, it was announced this week. \"Chinese people are travelling as never before,\" said Jonathan Newhouse, chairman and chief executive of Cond\u00e9 Nast International. Content will be tailored to the country's growing middle-class, who are taking holidays, both in China and abroad, more and more.\u2022 Festive naked baby figures \u2013 only in Tokyo of course! @RosannaAlice\u2022 Kangaroo scrotum purse from Oz that had santa's face on it. Nothing says Xmas like kangaroo scrotum @andy_kilgallon\u2022 Saucy merman tree ornaments from New Orleans. Obviously. @oyster_eyesTweet us @GuardianTravel #TravelCorkboardThis ski season is looking every bit as promising as the last, after a series of blizzards last week dumped a full metre of snow on the Alps and the Pyrenees. By Wednesday, though, the current bitterly cold temperatures are expected to have risen to more tolerable levels.Several high-altitude resorts, such as Verbier, Obergurgl, Cervinia, Val Thorens, Val d'Is\u00e8re and Tignes, are already open, along with Arinsal and Pas de la Casa in Andorra. In Courchevel and M\u00e9ribel there is now a metre-and-a-half of snow on Saulire \u2013 the highest point of their joint ski area. Lifts in Val d'Is\u00e8re and neighbouring Tignes were temporarily closed last week because of 70mph winds and the risk of avalanches. Nick Morgan, managing director of chalet operator Le Ski, said: \"A ridiculous amount of snow has fallen in Val d'Is\u00e8re and in Courchevel. It's a dream start to the season.\"In Austria, St Anton, Kitzb\u00fchel, Lech and Saalbach are open, as is the Jungfrau region (Wengen, M\u00fcrren and Grindelwald) in Switzerland. Which brings me to news that the Jungfrau is cutting lift pass prices by 50% (six-day pass CHF157 \u2013 \u00a3105) for December, January and March (20% for February) in a bid to attract skiers back to Switzerland.In North America the situation is mixed. California and western Canada have plenty of snow, but Colorado resorts \u2013 such as Vail and Aspen \u2013 urgently need more cover.Felice Hardy, co-editor of ski information website welove2ski.com", "tags": ["Flights", "Hotels", "Christmas and New Year holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Travel news roundup: hotel for teens, bargain visit to Santa, plus snow watch on Europe's big freeze"},{"date": "2012-12-09T20:57:40Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The first commodity in which the Swiss dealt was themselves. For centuries they exported mercenaries to fight in other people's wars, a trade which came to an effective end after the Swiss contingent in Napoleon's army was decimated at the battle of Berezina in 1812. The Swiss have since had to find other ways to earn a living and, as with the trade in soldiers, the balance between morality and economic advantage is a hard one to strike.The dark side of Swiss banking was visible again in Westminster last week: as George Osborne delivered his autumn statement he promised to raise \u00a35bn from otherwise obscure Swiss bank accounts. This is the latest chapter in a history which includes the long tussle over the funds of Holocaust survivors, as well as the old charge that Switzerland profited massively from trading with the Nazis. It may also be the first serious sign that the Swiss economic model will have to be tweaked.Even Swiss chocolate, on the surface as innocuous a subject as could be, has been put in the dock in a film which begins with a man chomping happily on a bar of it and then switches to exploited children bringing in the cocoa bean harvest in west Africa. Swiss NGOs have established that the country's chocolate firms are prominent among those dragging their feet on the implementation of a protocol which was supposed to outlaw such activities. As a report in this paper last week underlined, the whole field of commodities trading has become a subject of controversy in the federation.Swiss dealing in commodities like oil, copper and zinc, as well as food items like sugar, coffee and grain, has grown massively in the last 10 years. The concern is that light Swiss regulation is allowing companies to get away with some things which they would not be able to get away with elsewhere. A government commission is due to report soon, but some Swiss are concerned it will not go far enough. They want legislation to make Swiss parent companies legally liable for human rights and environmental offences abroad.It comes as no surprise to find that Darth Vader's mask was based on an old Swiss infantry helmet, or that a Swiss artist has imaginatively reworked Vader's headgear with motifs of clocks, cows and rustic figures. The world is of course addicted to a Jekyll and Hyde view of the Swiss republic. The truth is that Switzerland's faults shrink in significance when compared with the way the Swiss have turned their neutrality into an asset benefiting the whole world, the most obvious example being the Red Cross. The contradictions they display are similar to those in other trading states, including Britain, with which there are some close parallels, and their record in dealing with them is no worse and, in some ways, better.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland: inside the chocolate box | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-11-26T10:37:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller and 10 members of his band have been injured following a serious bus crash in Switzerland. The driver of the vehicle died in the accident, but none of the other passengers appeared to have life-threatening injuries.After performing in Monaco on Saturday night, the Marcus Miller Band was en route to Hengelo, in the Netherlands, for a gig. Driving down the A2 motorway, near the Swiss town of Schattdorf, the bus reportedly toppled as it went around a bend. The bus was carrying 13 people \u2013 the driver, a reserve driver, Miller, his band and crew. The survivors were all taken to hospital. Miller and two others were soon released, his manager said on Facebook, while others will be kept overnight under observation.Police confirmed that no other vehicles were involved in the crash but did not give details of the cause of the accident.Miller, 53, is a two-time Grammy winner and one of the most celebrated session musicians in jazz and R&B. Born in New York, he has worked as a producer, composer and musician, assisting artists including Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Michael Jackson, Frank Sinatra and Aretha Franklin. His most recent LP, Renaissance, includes covers of the Jackson Five's I'll Be There and Janelle Mon\u00e1e's Tightrope.", "tags": ["Jazz", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller injured in bus crash in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-11-22T21:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The world is seeing the first stirrings of an emerging new architecture of global transparency in taxation which could, if pushed forwards, help governments for the first time raise serious revenues from the estimated $21-32 trillion sitting offshore. Switzerland, in alliance with the tax havens of Luxembourg, Austria and Britain, is leading the charge to derail it.The battle now under way hinges on a powerful transparency principle called automatic information exchange. According to this, governments routinely tell each other about the cross-border assets and income of one another's citizens so they can tax them appropriately. This is the gold standard of transparency and the basis for a multilateral European scheme, the European Savings Tax Directive, which includes 42 European and other countries. This multilateral scheme is riddled with loopholes, but it is already up and running. Amendments to plug those loopholes are being prepared.A second pillar of the emerging architecture is run by the OECD, a club of rich countries that contains several tax havens (including Britain, which partly controls a number of major tax havens, such as the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Jersey).The OECD scheme runs on a ridiculously weak transparency principle: information exchange on request. Here, you cannot make blanket information requests to a tax haven: you must ask, on a case-by-case basis. That means you effectively have to know the information you are looking for \u2013 before you ask for it. Precious little information flows through these narrow pipes.The OECD also runs a black, white and\u00a0grey list system of tax havens. To get a sense of how useful this list is, note that in April 2009, when G20 leaders declared that \"the era of banking secrecy is over\" and asked the OECD to lead the charge, the blacklist was empty within just five days. The G20 asked the OECD to drain a swamp \u2013 and it has been handing out drinking straws. The project helps at the margins, but is not a patch on the European scheme.The United States is creating a third pillar under its Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires financial institutions to tell the authorities about foreign accounts held by American taxpayers. Like the European system, it runs on the principle of automatic information exchange and, although originally set up unilaterally, the US is now pushing for reciprocal arrangements with other countries. Over\u00a0time, one would expect rising co-operation and cross-linkages between the trailblazing US and European schemes, and with others.In August last year, Switzerland threw a huge spanner into the works. It signed bilateral tax deals \u2013 \"Rubik agreements\" \u2013 with Germany and Britain, based on a very different principle: wealthy people with Swiss accounts can preserve their secrecy and, instead, merely pay a one-off, withholding tax on assets, and a bit of future income. \"Trust us,\" say Swiss bankers \u2013 who have centuries of form helping the world's wealthy get around the rules of civilised society.The British tax authorities promised it would yield a tantalising bounty: a one-off \u00a34-\u00a37bn for cash-parched, austerity Britain. But the deals are riddled with catastrophic loopholes, some so egregious as to amount to signs planted in the text saying: \"Evade me here\". You can skip around them with discretionary trusts, foundations, insurance wrappers, offshore companies and more \u2013 or just shift your wealth to Singapore.A forensic analysis by the Tax Justice Network last year revealed that Britain's Rubik would not raise even a tenth of the promised sum. The analysis was sent to HMRC, to the Swiss tax authorities, to Swiss bankers and to several tax advisers. None could refute it. HMRC's response? It has kept its head down.The Rubik project is a Swiss swindle \u2013 and a humiliation for this government. If successful it would, in the words of Professor Itai Grinberg of Georgetown University, \"stifle the emergence of multilateral automatic information exchange\". The Swiss Bankers' Association, which designed Rubik, has\u00a0explicitly admitted that its original purpose was \"to prevent\" automatic information exchange: in other words, to kill the European Savings Tax Directive. In particular, crucial and powerful amendments to plug the directive's loopholes are now held up because Luxembourg says it won't accept them if Germany and Britain (and now the tax haven of Austria, which has signed its own Rubik deal) get special bilateral treatment from Switzerland. This obstructionism was the plan all along. EU tax commissioner Algirdas Semeta recently slammed Luxembourg's and Austria's involvement in this political chess game. \"I cannot understand,\" he\u00a0said, \"that anyone would make even more difficult the consolidation efforts by Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain and many other member states by\u00a0holding up this issue.\"Thankfully, Germany's Bundesrat is widely expected to throw its Rubik deal\u00a0out in a vote on Friday. The deal, forcefully supported by finance minister\u00a0Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble for reasons best known to himself, has\u00a0been attacked by German opposition politicians. A top Green party\u00a0official called it \"a slap in the face for all honest\u00a0taxpayers\"; and the head of the centre-left Social Democratic party, has accused Swiss banks of engaging in\u00a0\"organised crime\". If Germany rejects\u00a0the deal, as seems likely, Austria\u00a0will be easily dealt with, leaving Britain alone as the last big obstacle to progress in the greatest transparency project the world has seen.Chancellor George Osborne in his budget speech in April described tax evasion and avoidance as \"morally repugnant\". But his tax deal with Switzerland, as a fiscally useless spoiler, is a tax evader's dream. This government must repudiate it\u00a0immediately. If it doesn't, Labour must commit to abolishing it \u2013 or hang\u00a0its own head in shame.", "tags": ["US taxation", "US news", "US economy", "World news", "Tax", "Money", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "OECD", "Global economy", "Business"], "title": "A scheme designed to net trillions from global tax havens is being scuppered | Nicholas Shaxson"},{"date": "2012-12-30T19:45:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lovers, friends, flaneurs and everyday life feature in this major exhibition devoted to \u00c9douard Manet's portraits. His models include Proust, Zola and Mallarm\u00e9, street singers and top-hatted Amazonians. Manet may have been a stylist of the emerging modern world, but his everyday was unlike yours or mine. Royal Academy, London W1 (royalacademy.org.uk), 26 January to 14 April.Ceramics and knitted paintings, zoological specimens and amateur pieces, collaborations with and works by other artists \u2013 all have a place in Trockel's universe. The German's mercurial work is both playful and feminist; she is an indomitable talent who refuses categories. Serpentine Gallery, London W2 (serpentinegallery.org), 13 February to 7 April.Modernist socialist architecture in the former Yugoslavia, ruins of utopia and dreams that turned to dust inform the Croatian artist Maljkovic's strange, sometimes controversial art. His atmospheric installations and films plunge us into architectures of the mind \u2013 as well as futures that never happened. Baltic, Gateshead (balticmill.com), 15 March to 7 July.British artist and film-maker McQueen won the Turner prize in 1999, and the Camera d'Or at Cannes in 2008 for his film Hunger. He has been a war artist in Afghanistan, shot films in South African goldmines and turned his eye on sexual addiction. The big surprise is not why this major retrospective has travelled from Chicago to Switzerland, but why it isn't coming to the UK. Unmissable. Schaulager, Basel (schaulager.org), 16 March to 1\u00a0September.People complain that LS Lowry isn't given his due. Now big-gun art historians TJ Clark and Anne Wagner reappraise Lowry, showing him not so much as an eccentric loner but an artist who drew as much from 19th-century French art as he did from his daily grind as a rent collector. Much more than postcard cliche, Lowry was a social commentator and a painter of haunting land and seascapes, as well as of the mad and the miserable. Tate Britain, London SW1 (tate.org.uk), 25\u00a0June to 20 October.The Mexican artist Orozco is known for many kinds of work: drawings on skulls and whale skeletons, moulded clay hearts, his photographic series and games with objects. But as well as a feel for materials, Orozco has an interest in geometry and structure, and this show thinks through his use of the circular motif. Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh (fruitmarket.co.uk), 1 August to 20\u00a0October.This African-American artist's work is delicate yet ferocious, tackling racial and gender politics, slavery and white suprematism in America's south with cut-paper silhouettes and room-sized tableaux. Watercolours, drawings, text, film and new paper works are all included in her first and long overdue major British show. Camden Arts Centre, London NW 3 (camdenartscentre.org), 11 October to 5\u00a0January 2014.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Steve McQueen", "\u00c9douard Manet", "LS Lowry", "Gabriel Orozco", "Painting", "Ceramics", "Installation", "Culture"], "title": "2013 visual art preview: Manet's portraits and Lowry reappraised"},{"date": "2012-12-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Vietnamese island of Phu Quoc has a new international airport (phuquoc-airport.com), replacing a domestic one built by the French in the 1930s. VietJetAir (vietjetair.com) will start flying there from Bangkok in February, and Air Mekong and several other airlines are also sniffing around. Among idyllic places to stay is the Mango Bay collection of 40 thatched huts, from \u00a325 a night through i-escape.com.Hamburg's Town Hall Christmas market is the world's first to be run by clowns \u2013 professional clowns, that is. Performers from Germany's Circus Roncalli are serving punch and selling gifts to visitors at the market, and there are circus- themed stalls.\u2022 10am-9pm daily to 23 December. Easyjet (easyjet.com) has returns from Gatwick from \u00a3112A family of four can take a last-minute trip to see Santa in Lapland for \u00a31,399, including return flights from Gatwick on 11 December. The price includes three nights' half-board at Hotel Tunturi in Saariselk\u00e4, a reindeer sleigh ride, husky sledging, and a private meeting with the big man.\u2022 01483 791945, santaslapland.com\u2022 Bangkok, Thailand 34C\u2022 Cochin, India 32C\u2022 Dakar, Senegal 29C\u2022 Buenos Aires, Argentina 29C\u2022 Tucson, Arizona, US 21CHotel room for ladsBoys who love toys will love the new GAME Pad at Staybridge Suites London Stratford City hotel, where one room is equipped with three gaming zones for Xbox, PS3 and Wii, each with a 40-inch TV and all the latest games. There are also two additional TVs, plus a fridge stocked with beers and pizzas. Book now for stays in January for \u00a3199. \u2022 game.co.uk/gamepadLanding soon \u2026The first scheduled service from the UK featuring Boeing's latest plane, the Dreamliner, will start next week. Qatar Airways has taken delivery of the 254-seater, which will fly from Doha to Heathrow from Thursday. Boeing says its 787, which is almost entirely made of composite materials, making it lighter and more fuel-efficient, is one of the world's greenest long-haul aircraft. Qatar has ordered 60 Dreamliners, which have technology that lets all passengers use the internet and send text messages.FlightsMonarch Airlines has added 17,500 extra seats over the Christmas period (19\u00a0December-9\u00a0January) to its most popular destinations of Faro, Lanzarote, Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Gibraltar, Alicante and Malaga, from four UK airports, to meet increased demand from Brits with the winter blues.\u2022 monarch.co.ukNew mag for ChinaCond\u00e9 Nast Traveller magazine is to launch in China in March 2013, it was announced this week. \"Chinese people are travelling as never before,\" said Jonathan Newhouse, chairman and chief executive of Cond\u00e9 Nast International. Content will be tailored to the country's growing middle-class, who are taking holidays, both in China and abroad, more and more.\u2022 Festive naked baby figures \u2013 only in Tokyo of course! @RosannaAlice\u2022 Kangaroo scrotum purse from Oz that had santa's face on it. Nothing says Xmas like kangaroo scrotum @andy_kilgallon\u2022 Saucy merman tree ornaments from New Orleans. Obviously. @oyster_eyesTweet us @GuardianTravel #TravelCorkboardThis ski season is looking every bit as promising as the last, after a series of blizzards last week dumped a full metre of snow on the Alps and the Pyrenees. By Wednesday, though, the current bitterly cold temperatures are expected to have risen to more tolerable levels.Several high-altitude resorts, such as Verbier, Obergurgl, Cervinia, Val Thorens, Val d'Is\u00e8re and Tignes, are already open, along with Arinsal and Pas de la Casa in Andorra. In Courchevel and M\u00e9ribel there is now a metre-and-a-half of snow on Saulire \u2013 the highest point of their joint ski area. Lifts in Val d'Is\u00e8re and neighbouring Tignes were temporarily closed last week because of 70mph winds and the risk of avalanches. Nick Morgan, managing director of chalet operator Le Ski, said: \"A ridiculous amount of snow has fallen in Val d'Is\u00e8re and in Courchevel. It's a dream start to the season.\"In Austria, St Anton, Kitzb\u00fchel, Lech and Saalbach are open, as is the Jungfrau region (Wengen, M\u00fcrren and Grindelwald) in Switzerland. Which brings me to news that the Jungfrau is cutting lift pass prices by 50% (six-day pass CHF157 \u2013 \u00a3105) for December, January and March (20% for February) in a bid to attract skiers back to Switzerland.In North America the situation is mixed. California and western Canada have plenty of snow, but Colorado resorts \u2013 such as Vail and Aspen \u2013 urgently need more cover.Felice Hardy, co-editor of ski information website welove2ski.com", "tags": ["Flights", "Hotels", "Christmas and New Year holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Travel news roundup: hotel for teens, bargain visit to Santa, plus snow watch on Europe's big freeze"},{"date": "2012-12-16T00:06:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Norway is a country of exceptions. During summer, the sun never sets. In winter, people travel from all over the world to see the northern lights. Its relationship with the European Union is no less exceptional, but much less attractive. Many of those who want to strip our relationship with Europe back to the \"common market\" look to Norway, and even Switzerland, as viable alternatives to EU membership. Sadly, the comforts of these relationships are as cold as the midnight sun.In 1960 Britain, Norway and Switzerland founded the European Free Trade Association, an alternative to the European Community. Those paths split in 1973, when the UK joined the EC, while Norway and Switzerland stayed in Efta. Inside the EU, the UK became an influential player, one of the big three, but also one of its least integrated members. Outside, Norway became by far the most closely integrated non-EU country, but with no say whatever.Norway enjoys full access to the EU's internal market because it is part of the European Economic Area, which was created in 1992. In return, Norway is obliged to implement all the EU's laws relating to the internal market.Because Norway is not a member of the EU, it has no representation in any of its institutions and no right to participate in its decisions (except regarding the Schengen border-free area, of which Norway is a signatory). Norway has had to implement about three-quarters of all EU legislation, including the working time directive.Not only does Norway suffer the indignity of implementing whatever regulation or directive comes off the fax machine, but it also pays around \u20ac340m a year into the EU budget. Under similar circumstances, the UK, given its size, would probably pay \u00a32.5bn-\u00a34bn a year, which is close to half of our current net contribution. But imagine being told what to do by a body over which we had no influence.We would contribute to EU funds, but get nothing back. The balance of power, and the rules we would have to accept, would inevitably tilt in favour of less liberal policies. A recent report on the EEA, commissioned by the Norwegian government, concluded that it was suitable, if anything, \"for small states with limited ambitions to influence policy\". The Swiss model is even less appealing. Its relationship rests on some 120 separate bilateral agreements, many of which Switzerland started to negotiate after it rejected EEA membership in 1992. These require Switzerland to follow EU law in the areas that give it access to the EU market. The Swiss also pay into the EU budget, but less than the Norwegians.Britain benefits from the collective bargaining power that the EU's market of more than 500 million people wields in global trade negotiations. Switzerland and Norway conclude separate trade deals, as would the UK if it adopted either model.The EU is a broad church. We are not members of the euro, Schengen, or a European banking union. No one is seeking to force us into any of those arrangements. We do not realise that we already have the foundations for the best option for a relationship in Europe.Europe is by no means perfect, and sometimes infuriating, but it is our home market and a force multiplier for Britain globally. Giving that up for the cold comforts of Norway or Switzerland would greatly diminish Britain.Roland Rudd is chairman of Business for New Europe and of RLM Finsbury ", "tags": ["Norway", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Switzerland"], "title": "No power, no influence and we would still have to pay the bill"},{"date": "2012-12-09T20:57:40Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The first commodity in which the Swiss dealt was themselves. For centuries they exported mercenaries to fight in other people's wars, a trade which came to an effective end after the Swiss contingent in Napoleon's army was decimated at the battle of Berezina in 1812. The Swiss have since had to find other ways to earn a living and, as with the trade in soldiers, the balance between morality and economic advantage is a hard one to strike.The dark side of Swiss banking was visible again in Westminster last week: as George Osborne delivered his autumn statement he promised to raise \u00a35bn from otherwise obscure Swiss bank accounts. This is the latest chapter in a history which includes the long tussle over the funds of Holocaust survivors, as well as the old charge that Switzerland profited massively from trading with the Nazis. It may also be the first serious sign that the Swiss economic model will have to be tweaked.Even Swiss chocolate, on the surface as innocuous a subject as could be, has been put in the dock in a film which begins with a man chomping happily on a bar of it and then switches to exploited children bringing in the cocoa bean harvest in west Africa. Swiss NGOs have established that the country's chocolate firms are prominent among those dragging their feet on the implementation of a protocol which was supposed to outlaw such activities. As a report in this paper last week underlined, the whole field of commodities trading has become a subject of controversy in the federation.Swiss dealing in commodities like oil, copper and zinc, as well as food items like sugar, coffee and grain, has grown massively in the last 10 years. The concern is that light Swiss regulation is allowing companies to get away with some things which they would not be able to get away with elsewhere. A government commission is due to report soon, but some Swiss are concerned it will not go far enough. They want legislation to make Swiss parent companies legally liable for human rights and environmental offences abroad.It comes as no surprise to find that Darth Vader's mask was based on an old Swiss infantry helmet, or that a Swiss artist has imaginatively reworked Vader's headgear with motifs of clocks, cows and rustic figures. The world is of course addicted to a Jekyll and Hyde view of the Swiss republic. The truth is that Switzerland's faults shrink in significance when compared with the way the Swiss have turned their neutrality into an asset benefiting the whole world, the most obvious example being the Red Cross. The contradictions they display are similar to those in other trading states, including Britain, with which there are some close parallels, and their record in dealing with them is no worse and, in some ways, better.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland: inside the chocolate box | Editorial"},{"date": "2012-11-26T10:37:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller and 10 members of his band have been injured following a serious bus crash in Switzerland. The driver of the vehicle died in the accident, but none of the other passengers appeared to have life-threatening injuries.After performing in Monaco on Saturday night, the Marcus Miller Band was en route to Hengelo, in the Netherlands, for a gig. Driving down the A2 motorway, near the Swiss town of Schattdorf, the bus reportedly toppled as it went around a bend. The bus was carrying 13 people \u2013 the driver, a reserve driver, Miller, his band and crew. The survivors were all taken to hospital. Miller and two others were soon released, his manager said on Facebook, while others will be kept overnight under observation.Police confirmed that no other vehicles were involved in the crash but did not give details of the cause of the accident.Miller, 53, is a two-time Grammy winner and one of the most celebrated session musicians in jazz and R&B. Born in New York, he has worked as a producer, composer and musician, assisting artists including Miles Davis, Dizzy Gillespie, Michael Jackson, Frank Sinatra and Aretha Franklin. His most recent LP, Renaissance, includes covers of the Jackson Five's I'll Be There and Janelle Mon\u00e1e's Tightrope.", "tags": ["Jazz", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Jazz bassist Marcus Miller injured in bus crash in Switzerland"},{"date": "2012-11-22T21:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The world is seeing the first stirrings of an emerging new architecture of global transparency in taxation which could, if pushed forwards, help governments for the first time raise serious revenues from the estimated $21-32 trillion sitting offshore. Switzerland, in alliance with the tax havens of Luxembourg, Austria and Britain, is leading the charge to derail it.The battle now under way hinges on a powerful transparency principle called automatic information exchange. According to this, governments routinely tell each other about the cross-border assets and income of one another's citizens so they can tax them appropriately. This is the gold standard of transparency and the basis for a multilateral European scheme, the European Savings Tax Directive, which includes 42 European and other countries. This multilateral scheme is riddled with loopholes, but it is already up and running. Amendments to plug those loopholes are being prepared.A second pillar of the emerging architecture is run by the OECD, a club of rich countries that contains several tax havens (including Britain, which partly controls a number of major tax havens, such as the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands and Jersey).The OECD scheme runs on a ridiculously weak transparency principle: information exchange on request. Here, you cannot make blanket information requests to a tax haven: you must ask, on a case-by-case basis. That means you effectively have to know the information you are looking for \u2013 before you ask for it. Precious little information flows through these narrow pipes.The OECD also runs a black, white and\u00a0grey list system of tax havens. To get a sense of how useful this list is, note that in April 2009, when G20 leaders declared that \"the era of banking secrecy is over\" and asked the OECD to lead the charge, the blacklist was empty within just five days. The G20 asked the OECD to drain a swamp \u2013 and it has been handing out drinking straws. The project helps at the margins, but is not a patch on the European scheme.The United States is creating a third pillar under its Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which requires financial institutions to tell the authorities about foreign accounts held by American taxpayers. Like the European system, it runs on the principle of automatic information exchange and, although originally set up unilaterally, the US is now pushing for reciprocal arrangements with other countries. Over\u00a0time, one would expect rising co-operation and cross-linkages between the trailblazing US and European schemes, and with others.In August last year, Switzerland threw a huge spanner into the works. It signed bilateral tax deals \u2013 \"Rubik agreements\" \u2013 with Germany and Britain, based on a very different principle: wealthy people with Swiss accounts can preserve their secrecy and, instead, merely pay a one-off, withholding tax on assets, and a bit of future income. \"Trust us,\" say Swiss bankers \u2013 who have centuries of form helping the world's wealthy get around the rules of civilised society.The British tax authorities promised it would yield a tantalising bounty: a one-off \u00a34-\u00a37bn for cash-parched, austerity Britain. But the deals are riddled with catastrophic loopholes, some so egregious as to amount to signs planted in the text saying: \"Evade me here\". You can skip around them with discretionary trusts, foundations, insurance wrappers, offshore companies and more \u2013 or just shift your wealth to Singapore.A forensic analysis by the Tax Justice Network last year revealed that Britain's Rubik would not raise even a tenth of the promised sum. The analysis was sent to HMRC, to the Swiss tax authorities, to Swiss bankers and to several tax advisers. None could refute it. HMRC's response? It has kept its head down.The Rubik project is a Swiss swindle \u2013 and a humiliation for this government. If successful it would, in the words of Professor Itai Grinberg of Georgetown University, \"stifle the emergence of multilateral automatic information exchange\". The Swiss Bankers' Association, which designed Rubik, has\u00a0explicitly admitted that its original purpose was \"to prevent\" automatic information exchange: in other words, to kill the European Savings Tax Directive. In particular, crucial and powerful amendments to plug the directive's loopholes are now held up because Luxembourg says it won't accept them if Germany and Britain (and now the tax haven of Austria, which has signed its own Rubik deal) get special bilateral treatment from Switzerland. This obstructionism was the plan all along. EU tax commissioner Algirdas Semeta recently slammed Luxembourg's and Austria's involvement in this political chess game. \"I cannot understand,\" he\u00a0said, \"that anyone would make even more difficult the consolidation efforts by Greece, Ireland, Italy, Portugal and Spain and many other member states by\u00a0holding up this issue.\"Thankfully, Germany's Bundesrat is widely expected to throw its Rubik deal\u00a0out in a vote on Friday. The deal, forcefully supported by finance minister\u00a0Wolfgang Sch\u00e4uble for reasons best known to himself, has\u00a0been attacked by German opposition politicians. A top Green party\u00a0official called it \"a slap in the face for all honest\u00a0taxpayers\"; and the head of the centre-left Social Democratic party, has accused Swiss banks of engaging in\u00a0\"organised crime\". If Germany rejects\u00a0the deal, as seems likely, Austria\u00a0will be easily dealt with, leaving Britain alone as the last big obstacle to progress in the greatest transparency project the world has seen.Chancellor George Osborne in his budget speech in April described tax evasion and avoidance as \"morally repugnant\". But his tax deal with Switzerland, as a fiscally useless spoiler, is a tax evader's dream. This government must repudiate it\u00a0immediately. If it doesn't, Labour must commit to abolishing it \u2013 or hang\u00a0its own head in shame.", "tags": ["US taxation", "US news", "US economy", "World news", "Tax", "Money", "Tax and spending", "Politics", "OECD", "Global economy", "Business"], "title": "A scheme designed to net trillions from global tax havens is being scuppered | Nicholas Shaxson"},{"date": "2012-12-30T19:45:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lovers, friends, flaneurs and everyday life feature in this major exhibition devoted to \u00c9douard Manet's portraits. His models include Proust, Zola and Mallarm\u00e9, street singers and top-hatted Amazonians. Manet may have been a stylist of the emerging modern world, but his everyday was unlike yours or mine. Royal Academy, London W1 (royalacademy.org.uk), 26 January to 14 April.Ceramics and knitted paintings, zoological specimens and amateur pieces, collaborations with and works by other artists \u2013 all have a place in Trockel's universe. The German's mercurial work is both playful and feminist; she is an indomitable talent who refuses categories. Serpentine Gallery, London W2 (serpentinegallery.org), 13 February to 7 April.Modernist socialist architecture in the former Yugoslavia, ruins of utopia and dreams that turned to dust inform the Croatian artist Maljkovic's strange, sometimes controversial art. His atmospheric installations and films plunge us into architectures of the mind \u2013 as well as futures that never happened. Baltic, Gateshead (balticmill.com), 15 March to 7 July.British artist and film-maker McQueen won the Turner prize in 1999, and the Camera d'Or at Cannes in 2008 for his film Hunger. He has been a war artist in Afghanistan, shot films in South African goldmines and turned his eye on sexual addiction. The big surprise is not why this major retrospective has travelled from Chicago to Switzerland, but why it isn't coming to the UK. Unmissable. Schaulager, Basel (schaulager.org), 16 March to 1\u00a0September.People complain that LS Lowry isn't given his due. Now big-gun art historians TJ Clark and Anne Wagner reappraise Lowry, showing him not so much as an eccentric loner but an artist who drew as much from 19th-century French art as he did from his daily grind as a rent collector. Much more than postcard cliche, Lowry was a social commentator and a painter of haunting land and seascapes, as well as of the mad and the miserable. Tate Britain, London SW1 (tate.org.uk), 25\u00a0June to 20 October.The Mexican artist Orozco is known for many kinds of work: drawings on skulls and whale skeletons, moulded clay hearts, his photographic series and games with objects. But as well as a feel for materials, Orozco has an interest in geometry and structure, and this show thinks through his use of the circular motif. Fruitmarket Gallery, Edinburgh (fruitmarket.co.uk), 1 August to 20\u00a0October.This African-American artist's work is delicate yet ferocious, tackling racial and gender politics, slavery and white suprematism in America's south with cut-paper silhouettes and room-sized tableaux. Watercolours, drawings, text, film and new paper works are all included in her first and long overdue major British show. Camden Arts Centre, London NW 3 (camdenartscentre.org), 11 October to 5\u00a0January 2014.", "tags": ["Art", "Art and design", "Steve McQueen", "\u00c9douard Manet", "LS Lowry", "Gabriel Orozco", "Painting", "Ceramics", "Installation", "Culture"], "title": "2013 visual art preview: Manet's portraits and Lowry reappraised"},{"date": "2012-12-10T08:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Vietnamese island of Phu Quoc has a new international airport (phuquoc-airport.com), replacing a domestic one built by the French in the 1930s. VietJetAir (vietjetair.com) will start flying there from Bangkok in February, and Air Mekong and several other airlines are also sniffing around. Among idyllic places to stay is the Mango Bay collection of 40 thatched huts, from \u00a325 a night through i-escape.com.Hamburg's Town Hall Christmas market is the world's first to be run by clowns \u2013 professional clowns, that is. Performers from Germany's Circus Roncalli are serving punch and selling gifts to visitors at the market, and there are circus- themed stalls.\u2022 10am-9pm daily to 23 December. Easyjet (easyjet.com) has returns from Gatwick from \u00a3112A family of four can take a last-minute trip to see Santa in Lapland for \u00a31,399, including return flights from Gatwick on 11 December. The price includes three nights' half-board at Hotel Tunturi in Saariselk\u00e4, a reindeer sleigh ride, husky sledging, and a private meeting with the big man.\u2022 01483 791945, santaslapland.com\u2022 Bangkok, Thailand 34C\u2022 Cochin, India 32C\u2022 Dakar, Senegal 29C\u2022 Buenos Aires, Argentina 29C\u2022 Tucson, Arizona, US 21CHotel room for ladsBoys who love toys will love the new GAME Pad at Staybridge Suites London Stratford City hotel, where one room is equipped with three gaming zones for Xbox, PS3 and Wii, each with a 40-inch TV and all the latest games. There are also two additional TVs, plus a fridge stocked with beers and pizzas. Book now for stays in January for \u00a3199. \u2022 game.co.uk/gamepadLanding soon \u2026The first scheduled service from the UK featuring Boeing's latest plane, the Dreamliner, will start next week. Qatar Airways has taken delivery of the 254-seater, which will fly from Doha to Heathrow from Thursday. Boeing says its 787, which is almost entirely made of composite materials, making it lighter and more fuel-efficient, is one of the world's greenest long-haul aircraft. Qatar has ordered 60 Dreamliners, which have technology that lets all passengers use the internet and send text messages.FlightsMonarch Airlines has added 17,500 extra seats over the Christmas period (19\u00a0December-9\u00a0January) to its most popular destinations of Faro, Lanzarote, Tenerife, Gran Canaria, Gibraltar, Alicante and Malaga, from four UK airports, to meet increased demand from Brits with the winter blues.\u2022 monarch.co.ukNew mag for ChinaCond\u00e9 Nast Traveller magazine is to launch in China in March 2013, it was announced this week. \"Chinese people are travelling as never before,\" said Jonathan Newhouse, chairman and chief executive of Cond\u00e9 Nast International. Content will be tailored to the country's growing middle-class, who are taking holidays, both in China and abroad, more and more.\u2022 Festive naked baby figures \u2013 only in Tokyo of course! @RosannaAlice\u2022 Kangaroo scrotum purse from Oz that had santa's face on it. Nothing says Xmas like kangaroo scrotum @andy_kilgallon\u2022 Saucy merman tree ornaments from New Orleans. Obviously. @oyster_eyesTweet us @GuardianTravel #TravelCorkboardThis ski season is looking every bit as promising as the last, after a series of blizzards last week dumped a full metre of snow on the Alps and the Pyrenees. By Wednesday, though, the current bitterly cold temperatures are expected to have risen to more tolerable levels.Several high-altitude resorts, such as Verbier, Obergurgl, Cervinia, Val Thorens, Val d'Is\u00e8re and Tignes, are already open, along with Arinsal and Pas de la Casa in Andorra. In Courchevel and M\u00e9ribel there is now a metre-and-a-half of snow on Saulire \u2013 the highest point of their joint ski area. Lifts in Val d'Is\u00e8re and neighbouring Tignes were temporarily closed last week because of 70mph winds and the risk of avalanches. Nick Morgan, managing director of chalet operator Le Ski, said: \"A ridiculous amount of snow has fallen in Val d'Is\u00e8re and in Courchevel. It's a dream start to the season.\"In Austria, St Anton, Kitzb\u00fchel, Lech and Saalbach are open, as is the Jungfrau region (Wengen, M\u00fcrren and Grindelwald) in Switzerland. Which brings me to news that the Jungfrau is cutting lift pass prices by 50% (six-day pass CHF157 \u2013 \u00a3105) for December, January and March (20% for February) in a bid to attract skiers back to Switzerland.In North America the situation is mixed. California and western Canada have plenty of snow, but Colorado resorts \u2013 such as Vail and Aspen \u2013 urgently need more cover.Felice Hardy, co-editor of ski information website welove2ski.com", "tags": ["Flights", "Hotels", "Christmas and New Year holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Travel news roundup: hotel for teens, bargain visit to Santa, plus snow watch on Europe's big freeze"},{"date": "2012-12-16T00:06:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Norway is a country of exceptions. During summer, the sun never sets. In winter, people travel from all over the world to see the northern lights. Its relationship with the European Union is no less exceptional, but much less attractive. Many of those who want to strip our relationship with Europe back to the \"common market\" look to Norway, and even Switzerland, as viable alternatives to EU membership. Sadly, the comforts of these relationships are as cold as the midnight sun.In 1960 Britain, Norway and Switzerland founded the European Free Trade Association, an alternative to the European Community. Those paths split in 1973, when the UK joined the EC, while Norway and Switzerland stayed in Efta. Inside the EU, the UK became an influential player, one of the big three, but also one of its least integrated members. Outside, Norway became by far the most closely integrated non-EU country, but with no say whatever.Norway enjoys full access to the EU's internal market because it is part of the European Economic Area, which was created in 1992. In return, Norway is obliged to implement all the EU's laws relating to the internal market.Because Norway is not a member of the EU, it has no representation in any of its institutions and no right to participate in its decisions (except regarding the Schengen border-free area, of which Norway is a signatory). Norway has had to implement about three-quarters of all EU legislation, including the working time directive.Not only does Norway suffer the indignity of implementing whatever regulation or directive comes off the fax machine, but it also pays around \u20ac340m a year into the EU budget. Under similar circumstances, the UK, given its size, would probably pay \u00a32.5bn-\u00a34bn a year, which is close to half of our current net contribution. But imagine being told what to do by a body over which we had no influence.We would contribute to EU funds, but get nothing back. The balance of power, and the rules we would have to accept, would inevitably tilt in favour of less liberal policies. A recent report on the EEA, commissioned by the Norwegian government, concluded that it was suitable, if anything, \"for small states with limited ambitions to influence policy\". The Swiss model is even less appealing. Its relationship rests on some 120 separate bilateral agreements, many of which Switzerland started to negotiate after it rejected EEA membership in 1992. These require Switzerland to follow EU law in the areas that give it access to the EU market. The Swiss also pay into the EU budget, but less than the Norwegians.Britain benefits from the collective bargaining power that the EU's market of more than 500 million people wields in global trade negotiations. Switzerland and Norway conclude separate trade deals, as would the UK if it adopted either model.The EU is a broad church. We are not members of the euro, Schengen, or a European banking union. No one is seeking to force us into any of those arrangements. We do not realise that we already have the foundations for the best option for a relationship in Europe.Europe is by no means perfect, and sometimes infuriating, but it is our home market and a force multiplier for Britain globally. Giving that up for the cold comforts of Norway or Switzerland would greatly diminish Britain.Roland Rudd is chairman of Business for New Europe and of RLM Finsbury ", "tags": ["Norway", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "Switzerland"], "title": "No power, no influence and we would still have to pay the bill"},{"date": "2012-10-31T11:09:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's press council has upheld a complaint against a magazine that used a cover picture of a Roma boy waving a gun with the headline \"The Roma are coming: raids in Switzerland.\"The council censured the Zurich weekly Weltwoche for \"distortion\" and \"discrimination\". It was revealed that the picture, which showed the boy playing with a toy gun on a garbage dump, was taken in Kosovo in 2008.European Roma and Sinti groups condemned the cover as likely to fuel prejudice against members of the two ethnic minorities, also called Gypsies.Source: AP via ABC", "tags": ["Media", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Switzerland", "Kosovo", "Magazines", "Europe"], "title": "Swiss magazine censured for 'distortion'"},{"date": "2013-03-05T13:58:42Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "On Sunday 68% of Swiss voters and all of Switzerland's 26 cantons approved the Popular Initiative Against Abusive Executive Compensation. The most important points of this initiative are a ban on members of the board of directors or the executive board receiving certain payments, such as \"golden handshakes\" or \"golden parachutes\" at the point of recruitment or severance. Furthermore, managers won't receive any bonuses for buying or selling corporations. At annual shareholder meetings, shareholders in companies with headquarters in Switzerland will have a binding vote over the pay of directors and the executive board.Of course these new regulations for listed companies have drawn a lot of opposition from the country's business community, especially from the Swiss Business Federation. It was the most outspoken opponent of the initiative and invested 8m Swiss francs in the campaign to prevent voters approving the initiative. It warned that if the measure were to be passed, it would damage competitiveness in Switzerland and endanger jobs and that companies would leave the country. But these arguments did not sway the voters. What's more, multinationals such as ABB, Nestl\u00e9, Roche, Schindler, Zurich insurance and others denied clearly in public that this would be a reason to leave Switzerland.Excessive executive compensation is also being discussed in the European Union. Different proposals are taking shape. The EU agreed in principle last week to impose a strict limit on executive bonuses for banks. It would limit bonuses to the level of the employee's base salary, or double that if shareholders agreed by a two-third majority. Those bonus rules would also be valid for branches of foreign companies within the EU.The EU also wants to introduce a financial transaction tax for shares and bonds. In this way, the banks could pay back their share of the bailout costs incurred by states when the global financial and economic crisis started in 2008. One reason for this crisis was the fact that the higher the profit achieved, the higher the bonus. Of course this was not achieved without a lot of risk taking. Many of the countries affected are today laden with an astronomical amount of debt. Social and economic problems have become severe as unemployment reaches extremely high rates, especially for young people. Demonstrations by people in countries across the European Union are a clear sign that ordinary citizens are suffering the most. The approval of the initiative against abusive executive compensation by the Swiss people is a clear sign for other countries to take people's outrage over these vast, unjustified payouts seriously.The biggest Swiss bank, UBS, lost billions in the sub-prime crisis. The state had to bail out the bank. Nevertheless managers at the bank got away with millions in severance payments. That's the reason for our outrage.Now politicians have to take swift actions to implement the initiative. The Swiss government must create a provisional regulation by 3 March 2014, if parliament doesn't implement it within a year.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business", "Banks and building societies", "Money", "European Union"], "title": "Switzerland has stood up against excessive executive pay \u2013 your turn | Brigitta Moser-Harder"},{"date": "2013-03-05T13:58:42Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "On Sunday 68% of Swiss voters and all of Switzerland's 26 cantons approved the Popular Initiative Against Abusive Executive Compensation. The most important points of this initiative are a ban on members of the board of directors or the executive board receiving certain payments, such as \"golden handshakes\" or \"golden parachutes\" at the point of recruitment or severance. Furthermore, managers won't receive any bonuses for buying or selling corporations. At annual shareholder meetings, shareholders in companies with headquarters in Switzerland will have a binding vote over the pay of directors and the executive board.Of course these new regulations for listed companies have drawn a lot of opposition from the country's business community, especially from the Swiss Business Federation. It was the most outspoken opponent of the initiative and invested 8m Swiss francs in the campaign to prevent voters approving the initiative. It warned that if the measure were to be passed, it would damage competitiveness in Switzerland and endanger jobs and that companies would leave the country. But these arguments did not sway the voters. What's more, multinationals such as ABB, Nestl\u00e9, Roche, Schindler, Zurich insurance and others denied clearly in public that this would be a reason to leave Switzerland.Excessive executive compensation is also being discussed in the European Union. Different proposals are taking shape. The EU agreed in principle last week to impose a strict limit on executive bonuses for banks. It would limit bonuses to the level of the employee's base salary, or double that if shareholders agreed by a two-third majority. Those bonus rules would also be valid for branches of foreign companies within the EU.The EU also wants to introduce a financial transaction tax for shares and bonds. In this way, the banks could pay back their share of the bailout costs incurred by states when the global financial and economic crisis started in 2008. One reason for this crisis was the fact that the higher the profit achieved, the higher the bonus. Of course this was not achieved without a lot of risk taking. Many of the countries affected are today laden with an astronomical amount of debt. Social and economic problems have become severe as unemployment reaches extremely high rates, especially for young people. Demonstrations by people in countries across the European Union are a clear sign that ordinary citizens are suffering the most. The approval of the initiative against abusive executive compensation by the Swiss people is a clear sign for other countries to take people's outrage over these vast, unjustified payouts seriously.The biggest Swiss bank, UBS, lost billions in the sub-prime crisis. The state had to bail out the bank. Nevertheless managers at the bank got away with millions in severance payments. That's the reason for our outrage.Now politicians have to take swift actions to implement the initiative. The Swiss government must create a provisional regulation by 3 March 2014, if parliament doesn't implement it within a year.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business", "Banks and building societies", "Money", "European Union"], "title": "Switzerland has stood up against excessive executive pay \u2013 your turn | Brigitta Moser-Harder"},{"date": "2013-01-21T22:50:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "I have an idea for a particularly mediocre film. The plot runs thus: a bunch of rich white men gather in an Alpine hamlet. There's a schlubby bald Chicagoan, a Parisian banker in a suit lush enough to eat, and the obligatory Belarusian with a PhD in physics and a dentist keen on gold crowns. It's an odd set-up, but apparently innocuous. With this much cash flying about, busted film stars and\u00a0semi-retired pop singers swoop in. Journalists\u00a0write amusing sketches about the post-prandial piano-man who plays Billy Joel for\u00a0tipsy millionaires.But away from the gluhwein and the gabfest, the real action is slowly revealed. The businessmen summon prime ministers and presidents to secret meetings in tiny rooms, where they order the lives of the billions consigned to the plains below \u2013 and so make themselves even richer. The\u00a0title for this not-so-thriller? Well, I rather fancy Plutocrats' Paradise.Perhaps you think my scenario is too crass to be credible, yet a far cruder version is about to unfold: it's called Davos.More than 2,500 business executives and bankers will converge on the highest town in Europe for the annual World Economic Forum. For the next five days, Davos will, it's safe to say, boast more millionaires per square foot than anywhere else on the planet. A guest list leaked on to the web this weekend included 680 company chief executives, and a plethora of bankers: seven from Citigroup alone, six each from Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Deutsche Bank. David Cameron is on the list, along with 36 other sitting prime ministers. Naturally, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are both popping in (the WEF organisers subsequently sent me an updated list, which I am hoping the Guardian will publish online).To record the event, reporters will be allowed partial access; while phalanxes of ski-jacketed TV presenters are on hand to conduct interviews and provide pensive cutaways.The summit's notional purpose is to allow heads of businesses and of state to mull over the future for the world economy. The theme of this year's conference is \"Resilient dynamism\" which, true to Davos form, is a title that would make equal sense, or nonsense, the other way round (other classics of the genre include 2011's \"Shared\u00a0norms for the new reality\").All that thought-leadership might make executives feel as expansive as a costly cigar, but the sessions on \"de-risking Africa\" aren't what justify the \u00a345,000 price tag for basic membership and entrance (figures from a New York Times article that WEF guided me to). As participants acknowledge, the real business lies in private sessions with industry peers and amenable politicians, and access to those starts at around \u00a398,500.And this is what makes Davos so fascinating: it is the most perfect case study of how the practitioners of free-market, globalised capitalism give the public one explanation for what they are doing and why, while privately pursuing the complete opposite. On the one hand there is an event attended by Sharon Stone, Bono and a slew of tame academics (14 Nobel laureates this week alone), the message being \"we're open to anyone\". On the other hand, there are those secret meetings, off limits to anyone not in the \u00a3100k club. It is both a reputation-laundry service, and the most shadowy backroom-dealing house. From its inception, the whole point of Davos has been to promulgate the gospel of free-market fundamentalism. In his brilliant book, The Agony of Mammon, Lewis Lapham describes how business-school academic Klaus Schwab convened the original summit in 1971 for top European managers interested in the secrets of American entrepreneurship and \"freeing commercial enterprise from the bondage of government regulation\". A grand, globalist ideology has since been wrapped around that trunk of class interest, but without it the entire enterprise would never have got off the ground.Grasp that and you grasp what's wrong with the argument the Terry Leahys and the Bob Diamonds make for their extreme wealth. Look, the line runs, we work bloody hard for it; we're worth it. And it's true: unlike previous generations of the ultra-wealthy, many of the modern super-rich work for a living, in running major businesses or in finance (although the Davos guestlist still includes plenty of sheikhs and royals). But that doesn't mean they truly earn the millions they claim.Take a look at who's in the Davos set. Last spring, two American academics, Jon Bakija and Brad Helm, and a US Treasury official, Adam Cole, published the most comprehensive analysis yet of the richest 0.1% earners, based on tax returns. Of these top dogs, nearly two in three were top corporate executives and bankers. And the story in both those professions has not been of brilliant returns to shareholders or vast improvements for society, but of wealth extraction and lobbying politicians, Davos-style. In particular, the tale of modern high-finance is of generating transactions, whether in corporate mergers or sub-prime mortgages and then skimming off some of the cash.Earlier generations would have known what to call this Davos set of wealth extractors and rip-off merchants. Andrew Sayer, a Lancaster professor working on a book to be called Why We Can't Afford The Rich tots up the terms: Ruskin referred to such wealth as illth, the liberal JA Hobson as \"improperty\". Only now, the top 0.1% are able to conceal what they're up to in plain\u00a0sight. Which brings you back to my film.", "tags": ["Davos 2013", "Davos", "Economic policy", "Politics", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "An action-packed thriller is about to unfold in Davos, Switzerland | Aditya Chakrabortty"},{"date": "2013-03-05T13:58:42Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "On Sunday 68% of Swiss voters and all of Switzerland's 26 cantons approved the Popular Initiative Against Abusive Executive Compensation. The most important points of this initiative are a ban on members of the board of directors or the executive board receiving certain payments, such as \"golden handshakes\" or \"golden parachutes\" at the point of recruitment or severance. Furthermore, managers won't receive any bonuses for buying or selling corporations. At annual shareholder meetings, shareholders in companies with headquarters in Switzerland will have a binding vote over the pay of directors and the executive board.Of course these new regulations for listed companies have drawn a lot of opposition from the country's business community, especially from the Swiss Business Federation. It was the most outspoken opponent of the initiative and invested 8m Swiss francs in the campaign to prevent voters approving the initiative. It warned that if the measure were to be passed, it would damage competitiveness in Switzerland and endanger jobs and that companies would leave the country. But these arguments did not sway the voters. What's more, multinationals such as ABB, Nestl\u00e9, Roche, Schindler, Zurich insurance and others denied clearly in public that this would be a reason to leave Switzerland.Excessive executive compensation is also being discussed in the European Union. Different proposals are taking shape. The EU agreed in principle last week to impose a strict limit on executive bonuses for banks. It would limit bonuses to the level of the employee's base salary, or double that if shareholders agreed by a two-third majority. Those bonus rules would also be valid for branches of foreign companies within the EU.The EU also wants to introduce a financial transaction tax for shares and bonds. In this way, the banks could pay back their share of the bailout costs incurred by states when the global financial and economic crisis started in 2008. One reason for this crisis was the fact that the higher the profit achieved, the higher the bonus. Of course this was not achieved without a lot of risk taking. Many of the countries affected are today laden with an astronomical amount of debt. Social and economic problems have become severe as unemployment reaches extremely high rates, especially for young people. Demonstrations by people in countries across the European Union are a clear sign that ordinary citizens are suffering the most. The approval of the initiative against abusive executive compensation by the Swiss people is a clear sign for other countries to take people's outrage over these vast, unjustified payouts seriously.The biggest Swiss bank, UBS, lost billions in the sub-prime crisis. The state had to bail out the bank. Nevertheless managers at the bank got away with millions in severance payments. That's the reason for our outrage.Now politicians have to take swift actions to implement the initiative. The Swiss government must create a provisional regulation by 3 March 2014, if parliament doesn't implement it within a year.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business", "Banks and building societies", "Money", "European Union"], "title": "Switzerland has stood up against excessive executive pay \u2013 your turn | Brigitta Moser-Harder"},{"date": "2013-01-21T22:50:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "I have an idea for a particularly mediocre film. The plot runs thus: a bunch of rich white men gather in an Alpine hamlet. There's a schlubby bald Chicagoan, a Parisian banker in a suit lush enough to eat, and the obligatory Belarusian with a PhD in physics and a dentist keen on gold crowns. It's an odd set-up, but apparently innocuous. With this much cash flying about, busted film stars and\u00a0semi-retired pop singers swoop in. Journalists\u00a0write amusing sketches about the post-prandial piano-man who plays Billy Joel for\u00a0tipsy millionaires.But away from the gluhwein and the gabfest, the real action is slowly revealed. The businessmen summon prime ministers and presidents to secret meetings in tiny rooms, where they order the lives of the billions consigned to the plains below \u2013 and so make themselves even richer. The\u00a0title for this not-so-thriller? Well, I rather fancy Plutocrats' Paradise.Perhaps you think my scenario is too crass to be credible, yet a far cruder version is about to unfold: it's called Davos.More than 2,500 business executives and bankers will converge on the highest town in Europe for the annual World Economic Forum. For the next five days, Davos will, it's safe to say, boast more millionaires per square foot than anywhere else on the planet. A guest list leaked on to the web this weekend included 680 company chief executives, and a plethora of bankers: seven from Citigroup alone, six each from Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Deutsche Bank. David Cameron is on the list, along with 36 other sitting prime ministers. Naturally, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are both popping in (the WEF organisers subsequently sent me an updated list, which I am hoping the Guardian will publish online).To record the event, reporters will be allowed partial access; while phalanxes of ski-jacketed TV presenters are on hand to conduct interviews and provide pensive cutaways.The summit's notional purpose is to allow heads of businesses and of state to mull over the future for the world economy. The theme of this year's conference is \"Resilient dynamism\" which, true to Davos form, is a title that would make equal sense, or nonsense, the other way round (other classics of the genre include 2011's \"Shared\u00a0norms for the new reality\").All that thought-leadership might make executives feel as expansive as a costly cigar, but the sessions on \"de-risking Africa\" aren't what justify the \u00a345,000 price tag for basic membership and entrance (figures from a New York Times article that WEF guided me to). As participants acknowledge, the real business lies in private sessions with industry peers and amenable politicians, and access to those starts at around \u00a398,500.And this is what makes Davos so fascinating: it is the most perfect case study of how the practitioners of free-market, globalised capitalism give the public one explanation for what they are doing and why, while privately pursuing the complete opposite. On the one hand there is an event attended by Sharon Stone, Bono and a slew of tame academics (14 Nobel laureates this week alone), the message being \"we're open to anyone\". On the other hand, there are those secret meetings, off limits to anyone not in the \u00a3100k club. It is both a reputation-laundry service, and the most shadowy backroom-dealing house. From its inception, the whole point of Davos has been to promulgate the gospel of free-market fundamentalism. In his brilliant book, The Agony of Mammon, Lewis Lapham describes how business-school academic Klaus Schwab convened the original summit in 1971 for top European managers interested in the secrets of American entrepreneurship and \"freeing commercial enterprise from the bondage of government regulation\". A grand, globalist ideology has since been wrapped around that trunk of class interest, but without it the entire enterprise would never have got off the ground.Grasp that and you grasp what's wrong with the argument the Terry Leahys and the Bob Diamonds make for their extreme wealth. Look, the line runs, we work bloody hard for it; we're worth it. And it's true: unlike previous generations of the ultra-wealthy, many of the modern super-rich work for a living, in running major businesses or in finance (although the Davos guestlist still includes plenty of sheikhs and royals). But that doesn't mean they truly earn the millions they claim.Take a look at who's in the Davos set. Last spring, two American academics, Jon Bakija and Brad Helm, and a US Treasury official, Adam Cole, published the most comprehensive analysis yet of the richest 0.1% earners, based on tax returns. Of these top dogs, nearly two in three were top corporate executives and bankers. And the story in both those professions has not been of brilliant returns to shareholders or vast improvements for society, but of wealth extraction and lobbying politicians, Davos-style. In particular, the tale of modern high-finance is of generating transactions, whether in corporate mergers or sub-prime mortgages and then skimming off some of the cash.Earlier generations would have known what to call this Davos set of wealth extractors and rip-off merchants. Andrew Sayer, a Lancaster professor working on a book to be called Why We Can't Afford The Rich tots up the terms: Ruskin referred to such wealth as illth, the liberal JA Hobson as \"improperty\". Only now, the top 0.1% are able to conceal what they're up to in plain\u00a0sight. Which brings you back to my film.", "tags": ["Davos 2013", "Davos", "Economic policy", "Politics", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "An action-packed thriller is about to unfold in Davos, Switzerland | Aditya Chakrabortty"},{"date": "2013-03-15T08:43:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The more they look at it, the more the new particle discovered at Cern last year resembles the long-sought Higgs boson, the mysterious particle that confers mass on the building blocks of nature.Scientists at the home of the Large Hadron Collider on the outskirts of Geneva said their latest analysis, based on more than twice as much data as before, pointed firmly towards the particle first described in 1964 by Professor Peter Higgs at Edinburgh University.Physicists at the lab announced the discovery of a new particle in July last year, but cautioned that the results were preliminary. The latest measurements show that the particle behaves precisely as expected, leading some to drop their reservations over its identity. \"I'm confident that it's a Higgs particle. I don't need to call it Higgs-like any more,\" said Joe Incandela, spokesman for the CMS team at Cern. \"I may need to eat my words one day, but I think that's very unlikely.\"The particle was discovered among the subatomic debris spewed out from hundreds of trillions of proton collisions inside the Large Hadron Collider. Two teams, working on the huge detectors Atlas and CMS, announced a tentative discovery of the particle last year.The Higgs particle is highly unstable and disintegrates into other subatomic particles as soon as it is created. The latest data shows that the new particle decays as predicted for the simplest type of Higgs boson.The scientists also measured a quantum property of the particle called spin. The Higgs boson should have no spin, and this has so far been borne out by measurements. Details of the latest results were announced at a physics conference in La Thuile in Italy.The discovery marks the end of a decades-long search for the particle, and the beginning of a new effort among physicists to understand its place in nature.Though all measurements to date point to the particle being a simple and singular Higgs boson, many physicists hope that relatives of the Higgs particle await discovery.One theory, called supersymmetry, calls for five different varieties of Higgs boson. The theory would take physics in a radical new direction, and pave the way to understanding dark matter, the invisible substance that clings around galaxies and makes up around one fifth of the universe.The Large Hadron Collider was switched off earlier this year for maintenance and repairs that will last until 2015. When the collider is turned back on, physicists hope to push it to its full design energy, nearly twice that achieved so far.", "tags": ["Higgs boson", "Cern", "Particle physics", "Physics", "Science", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Cern scientists believe newly discovered particle is the real Higgs boson"},{"date": "2013-03-05T13:58:42Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "On Sunday 68% of Swiss voters and all of Switzerland's 26 cantons approved the Popular Initiative Against Abusive Executive Compensation. The most important points of this initiative are a ban on members of the board of directors or the executive board receiving certain payments, such as \"golden handshakes\" or \"golden parachutes\" at the point of recruitment or severance. Furthermore, managers won't receive any bonuses for buying or selling corporations. At annual shareholder meetings, shareholders in companies with headquarters in Switzerland will have a binding vote over the pay of directors and the executive board.Of course these new regulations for listed companies have drawn a lot of opposition from the country's business community, especially from the Swiss Business Federation. It was the most outspoken opponent of the initiative and invested 8m Swiss francs in the campaign to prevent voters approving the initiative. It warned that if the measure were to be passed, it would damage competitiveness in Switzerland and endanger jobs and that companies would leave the country. But these arguments did not sway the voters. What's more, multinationals such as ABB, Nestl\u00e9, Roche, Schindler, Zurich insurance and others denied clearly in public that this would be a reason to leave Switzerland.Excessive executive compensation is also being discussed in the European Union. Different proposals are taking shape. The EU agreed in principle last week to impose a strict limit on executive bonuses for banks. It would limit bonuses to the level of the employee's base salary, or double that if shareholders agreed by a two-third majority. Those bonus rules would also be valid for branches of foreign companies within the EU.The EU also wants to introduce a financial transaction tax for shares and bonds. In this way, the banks could pay back their share of the bailout costs incurred by states when the global financial and economic crisis started in 2008. One reason for this crisis was the fact that the higher the profit achieved, the higher the bonus. Of course this was not achieved without a lot of risk taking. Many of the countries affected are today laden with an astronomical amount of debt. Social and economic problems have become severe as unemployment reaches extremely high rates, especially for young people. Demonstrations by people in countries across the European Union are a clear sign that ordinary citizens are suffering the most. The approval of the initiative against abusive executive compensation by the Swiss people is a clear sign for other countries to take people's outrage over these vast, unjustified payouts seriously.The biggest Swiss bank, UBS, lost billions in the sub-prime crisis. The state had to bail out the bank. Nevertheless managers at the bank got away with millions in severance payments. That's the reason for our outrage.Now politicians have to take swift actions to implement the initiative. The Swiss government must create a provisional regulation by 3 March 2014, if parliament doesn't implement it within a year.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Banking", "Business", "Banks and building societies", "Money", "European Union"], "title": "Switzerland has stood up against excessive executive pay \u2013 your turn | Brigitta Moser-Harder"},{"date": "2013-01-21T22:50:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "I have an idea for a particularly mediocre film. The plot runs thus: a bunch of rich white men gather in an Alpine hamlet. There's a schlubby bald Chicagoan, a Parisian banker in a suit lush enough to eat, and the obligatory Belarusian with a PhD in physics and a dentist keen on gold crowns. It's an odd set-up, but apparently innocuous. With this much cash flying about, busted film stars and\u00a0semi-retired pop singers swoop in. Journalists\u00a0write amusing sketches about the post-prandial piano-man who plays Billy Joel for\u00a0tipsy millionaires.But away from the gluhwein and the gabfest, the real action is slowly revealed. The businessmen summon prime ministers and presidents to secret meetings in tiny rooms, where they order the lives of the billions consigned to the plains below \u2013 and so make themselves even richer. The\u00a0title for this not-so-thriller? Well, I rather fancy Plutocrats' Paradise.Perhaps you think my scenario is too crass to be credible, yet a far cruder version is about to unfold: it's called Davos.More than 2,500 business executives and bankers will converge on the highest town in Europe for the annual World Economic Forum. For the next five days, Davos will, it's safe to say, boast more millionaires per square foot than anywhere else on the planet. A guest list leaked on to the web this weekend included 680 company chief executives, and a plethora of bankers: seven from Citigroup alone, six each from Goldman Sachs, JP Morgan and Deutsche Bank. David Cameron is on the list, along with 36 other sitting prime ministers. Naturally, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown are both popping in (the WEF organisers subsequently sent me an updated list, which I am hoping the Guardian will publish online).To record the event, reporters will be allowed partial access; while phalanxes of ski-jacketed TV presenters are on hand to conduct interviews and provide pensive cutaways.The summit's notional purpose is to allow heads of businesses and of state to mull over the future for the world economy. The theme of this year's conference is \"Resilient dynamism\" which, true to Davos form, is a title that would make equal sense, or nonsense, the other way round (other classics of the genre include 2011's \"Shared\u00a0norms for the new reality\").All that thought-leadership might make executives feel as expansive as a costly cigar, but the sessions on \"de-risking Africa\" aren't what justify the \u00a345,000 price tag for basic membership and entrance (figures from a New York Times article that WEF guided me to). As participants acknowledge, the real business lies in private sessions with industry peers and amenable politicians, and access to those starts at around \u00a398,500.And this is what makes Davos so fascinating: it is the most perfect case study of how the practitioners of free-market, globalised capitalism give the public one explanation for what they are doing and why, while privately pursuing the complete opposite. On the one hand there is an event attended by Sharon Stone, Bono and a slew of tame academics (14 Nobel laureates this week alone), the message being \"we're open to anyone\". On the other hand, there are those secret meetings, off limits to anyone not in the \u00a3100k club. It is both a reputation-laundry service, and the most shadowy backroom-dealing house. From its inception, the whole point of Davos has been to promulgate the gospel of free-market fundamentalism. In his brilliant book, The Agony of Mammon, Lewis Lapham describes how business-school academic Klaus Schwab convened the original summit in 1971 for top European managers interested in the secrets of American entrepreneurship and \"freeing commercial enterprise from the bondage of government regulation\". A grand, globalist ideology has since been wrapped around that trunk of class interest, but without it the entire enterprise would never have got off the ground.Grasp that and you grasp what's wrong with the argument the Terry Leahys and the Bob Diamonds make for their extreme wealth. Look, the line runs, we work bloody hard for it; we're worth it. And it's true: unlike previous generations of the ultra-wealthy, many of the modern super-rich work for a living, in running major businesses or in finance (although the Davos guestlist still includes plenty of sheikhs and royals). But that doesn't mean they truly earn the millions they claim.Take a look at who's in the Davos set. Last spring, two American academics, Jon Bakija and Brad Helm, and a US Treasury official, Adam Cole, published the most comprehensive analysis yet of the richest 0.1% earners, based on tax returns. Of these top dogs, nearly two in three were top corporate executives and bankers. And the story in both those professions has not been of brilliant returns to shareholders or vast improvements for society, but of wealth extraction and lobbying politicians, Davos-style. In particular, the tale of modern high-finance is of generating transactions, whether in corporate mergers or sub-prime mortgages and then skimming off some of the cash.Earlier generations would have known what to call this Davos set of wealth extractors and rip-off merchants. Andrew Sayer, a Lancaster professor working on a book to be called Why We Can't Afford The Rich tots up the terms: Ruskin referred to such wealth as illth, the liberal JA Hobson as \"improperty\". Only now, the top 0.1% are able to conceal what they're up to in plain\u00a0sight. Which brings you back to my film.", "tags": ["Davos 2013", "Davos", "Economic policy", "Politics", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Business"], "title": "An action-packed thriller is about to unfold in Davos, Switzerland | Aditya Chakrabortty"},{"date": "2013-03-15T08:43:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The more they look at it, the more the new particle discovered at Cern last year resembles the long-sought Higgs boson, the mysterious particle that confers mass on the building blocks of nature.Scientists at the home of the Large Hadron Collider on the outskirts of Geneva said their latest analysis, based on more than twice as much data as before, pointed firmly towards the particle first described in 1964 by Professor Peter Higgs at Edinburgh University.Physicists at the lab announced the discovery of a new particle in July last year, but cautioned that the results were preliminary. The latest measurements show that the particle behaves precisely as expected, leading some to drop their reservations over its identity. \"I'm confident that it's a Higgs particle. I don't need to call it Higgs-like any more,\" said Joe Incandela, spokesman for the CMS team at Cern. \"I may need to eat my words one day, but I think that's very unlikely.\"The particle was discovered among the subatomic debris spewed out from hundreds of trillions of proton collisions inside the Large Hadron Collider. Two teams, working on the huge detectors Atlas and CMS, announced a tentative discovery of the particle last year.The Higgs particle is highly unstable and disintegrates into other subatomic particles as soon as it is created. The latest data shows that the new particle decays as predicted for the simplest type of Higgs boson.The scientists also measured a quantum property of the particle called spin. The Higgs boson should have no spin, and this has so far been borne out by measurements. Details of the latest results were announced at a physics conference in La Thuile in Italy.The discovery marks the end of a decades-long search for the particle, and the beginning of a new effort among physicists to understand its place in nature.Though all measurements to date point to the particle being a simple and singular Higgs boson, many physicists hope that relatives of the Higgs particle await discovery.One theory, called supersymmetry, calls for five different varieties of Higgs boson. The theory would take physics in a radical new direction, and pave the way to understanding dark matter, the invisible substance that clings around galaxies and makes up around one fifth of the universe.The Large Hadron Collider was switched off earlier this year for maintenance and repairs that will last until 2015. When the collider is turned back on, physicists hope to push it to its full design energy, nearly twice that achieved so far.", "tags": ["Higgs boson", "Cern", "Particle physics", "Physics", "Science", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Cern scientists believe newly discovered particle is the real Higgs boson"},{"date": "2013-01-07T16:42:56Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The founder of one of the world's most celebrated festivals is in a coma after a skiing accident.Claude Nobs, creator of the Montreux jazz festival, was injured on Christmas Eve after he \"fell while practising cross-country skiing\" near his home in the village of Caux in Switzerland, festival organisers said on Monday. He has undergone surgery but remains unconscious. \"His condition requires further additional tests,\" they added.Nobs, who is Swiss, co-launched the now world-renowned festival in 1967 with the then president of Atlantic Records, Nesuhi Ertegun. Charles Lloyd and Keith Jarrett were the first headliners.The 76-year-old, nicknamed Funky Claude after he was mentioned in the Deep Purple song Smoke on the Water, underwent heart surgery six years ago, but remained festival director, a position he shared during the 1990s with Quincy Jones. The US music producer returns each year to introduce new talent.Previous headliners have included Miles Davis, Ray Charles, Prince and guitarist Santana. Joan Baez arrived on horseback for her 1973 performance. Nobs often joined musicians on stage, playing harmonica, and sometimes accompanied by his pet dogs.The festival's secretary-general, Mathieu Jaton, will take over Nobs's responsibilities for this year's event on 5-20 June.Last year's lineup included Bob Dylan, Lana Del Rey and Hugh Laurie.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Jazz", "Music", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Montreux jazz festival founder Claude Nobs in a coma"},{"date": "2013-05-20T14:20:21Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "I've studied ethics as a branch of philosophy \u2013 it's fun. The theory, that is. But it is also vacuous. Worthwhile ethics can only be done with real people in front of you. You only know you've got it right when you would be happy to apply your theory to those you love.Notionally, I was convinced that a loving and compassionate God would not demand of a person extreme and prolonged suffering in order to authenticate his ultimate control. God invites us to collaborate in the adventure of living, and we are free to make life-or-death choices in many ways. Some choose to smoke or drink. Even to drive or cross the road presupposes a degree of autonomy over our mortality. It has always seemed to me perverse to deny that autonomy at the very point when we need it most.These thoughts were abstract until last year. My uncle was a well-known psychotherapist, specialising in anger management for teenagers, and had a private practice in Zurich. A millionaire, he lived a simple life with an almost Buddhist outlook. His values and his spirituality were admirable. He did not have a Protestant God's opinion as a reference point, but he had great care for human relationships and held life very precious.After a terminal diagnosis he decided not to have treatment and he and his family made all the legal and medical arrangements to enable him to choose the moment of his death. The next three years were lived to the full and he was only bedridden for two weeks. During those three years the whole family found great comfort in the fact that he did not dread pain and disability getting out of control at the end. He travelled to England to see his sister, my mother, and they said goodbye. Together the family eventually made the decision that the time had come, they gathered around him with good wine, great music \u2013 a fine and dignified death. I spoke to his widow at my own mother's funeral a few months later and she is so grateful that because they lived in Switzerland they had the freedom to make the choices they did.I've had a little time to digest this. My uncle would have been dead by now either way. His choice feels life-affirming, dignified and measured. Also, very importantly, it was loving towards his family.We need to reframe this debate. The question is not around the choice to live or die. That bit is sorted. The choice is about the manner of our death. I sit with bereaved families every week. Mostly they speak of care and kindness, of effective pain relief and a gentle slipping away. But it's not that rare to hear about difficult final days that have a nightmarish quality about them. It might be disturbingly vivid, but people do say to me \"you would never let your dog suffer like that\". I cannot believe in a God who demands that of us.Maybe we have confused the right to live one's life to the very end with a moral obligation to do so.The Catholic theologian Hans K\u00fcng gets it right in his aid-in-dying propositions. The patient will call it \"surrender of life\"; when the time of dying has come and the patient has been prepared for it, he may encounter it in submission, thankfulness and hopeful expectation. He will return his life into the hand of his creator, who is a God of mercy and not a cruel tyrant who would strive to see man in the hell of pain and helplessness as long as possible.Recent research has shown that more than 70% of people in this country would welcome a change in the law, but there are genuine fears that it could prove impossible to get the safeguards right. Doctors feel insecure, even though of course they have been easing patients' death for centuries. There is also the fear that vulnerable elderly folk will feel pressure not to be a burden on their families.The Swiss experience shows that these fears are unfounded. Since the 1940s it has been legal, within very tightly controlled rules, to help someone who wishes to die. It has not become normalised, far less expected. The numbers are low, and many more people explore the possibility and use it as an emotional safeguard, than choose to end their lives in that way.The advent of the hospice movement was the sign of a more compassionate and humane society. Well-constructed legislation which gave those few who felt the need, the opportunity to make a choice about the manner and time of their death would be another such sign.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Law", "Society", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "My uncle was able to have a dignified death \u2013 as he lived in Switzerland | Rosie Harper"},{"date": "2013-05-20T14:20:21Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "I've studied ethics as a branch of philosophy \u2013 it's fun. The theory, that is. But it is also vacuous. Worthwhile ethics can only be done with real people in front of you. You only know you've got it right when you would be happy to apply your theory to those you love.Notionally, I was convinced that a loving and compassionate God would not demand of a person extreme and prolonged suffering in order to authenticate his ultimate control. God invites us to collaborate in the adventure of living, and we are free to make life-or-death choices in many ways. Some choose to smoke or drink. Even to drive or cross the road presupposes a degree of autonomy over our mortality. It has always seemed to me perverse to deny that autonomy at the very point when we need it most.These thoughts were abstract until last year. My uncle was a well-known psychotherapist, specialising in anger management for teenagers, and had a private practice in Zurich. A millionaire, he lived a simple life with an almost Buddhist outlook. His values and his spirituality were admirable. He did not have a Protestant God's opinion as a reference point, but he had great care for human relationships and held life very precious.After a terminal diagnosis he decided not to have treatment and he and his family made all the legal and medical arrangements to enable him to choose the moment of his death. The next three years were lived to the full and he was only bedridden for two weeks. During those three years the whole family found great comfort in the fact that he did not dread pain and disability getting out of control at the end. He travelled to England to see his sister, my mother, and they said goodbye. Together the family eventually made the decision that the time had come, they gathered around him with good wine, great music \u2013 a fine and dignified death. I spoke to his widow at my own mother's funeral a few months later and she is so grateful that because they lived in Switzerland they had the freedom to make the choices they did.I've had a little time to digest this. My uncle would have been dead by now either way. His choice feels life-affirming, dignified and measured. Also, very importantly, it was loving towards his family.We need to reframe this debate. The question is not around the choice to live or die. That bit is sorted. The choice is about the manner of our death. I sit with bereaved families every week. Mostly they speak of care and kindness, of effective pain relief and a gentle slipping away. But it's not that rare to hear about difficult final days that have a nightmarish quality about them. It might be disturbingly vivid, but people do say to me \"you would never let your dog suffer like that\". I cannot believe in a God who demands that of us.Maybe we have confused the right to live one's life to the very end with a moral obligation to do so.The Catholic theologian Hans K\u00fcng gets it right in his aid-in-dying propositions. The patient will call it \"surrender of life\"; when the time of dying has come and the patient has been prepared for it, he may encounter it in submission, thankfulness and hopeful expectation. He will return his life into the hand of his creator, who is a God of mercy and not a cruel tyrant who would strive to see man in the hell of pain and helplessness as long as possible.Recent research has shown that more than 70% of people in this country would welcome a change in the law, but there are genuine fears that it could prove impossible to get the safeguards right. Doctors feel insecure, even though of course they have been easing patients' death for centuries. There is also the fear that vulnerable elderly folk will feel pressure not to be a burden on their families.The Swiss experience shows that these fears are unfounded. Since the 1940s it has been legal, within very tightly controlled rules, to help someone who wishes to die. It has not become normalised, far less expected. The numbers are low, and many more people explore the possibility and use it as an emotional safeguard, than choose to end their lives in that way.The advent of the hospice movement was the sign of a more compassionate and humane society. Well-constructed legislation which gave those few who felt the need, the opportunity to make a choice about the manner and time of their death would be another such sign.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Law", "Society", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "My uncle was able to have a dignified death \u2013 as he lived in Switzerland | Rosie Harper"},{"date": "2013-04-07T18:57:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "This 2.5-mile-wide strip of land is all that stands between about 1 million heavily armed troops ranged either side of the border between North and South Korea.The atmosphere inside the demilitarised zone (DMZ), established after the 1950-53 Korean War ended in a ceasefire, mirrors the current state of cross-border relations: prolonged tension, occasional flare-ups, and a return to the status quo.That precarious arrangement has prevented the two Koreas from going to war again, but failed to bring a real and lasting peace, say experts who believe the time has come for the US and its allies to consider a new approach to North Korea unthinkable just a week ago: dialogue.On Sunday, Washington postponed a planned intercontinental missile test, giving encouragement to observers who have urged a more moderate tone in recent days. The initial high-octane response \u2013 which included flying B2 bombers over the peninsula\u2013 has only made a bad situation worse, so the current thinking goes.\"There has been a ratcheting down of deterrence gestures by the US, and that has helped cool the situation a little,\" said John Delury, a North Korea analyst at Yonsei University in Seoul.Delury believes more aggressive diplomatic gestures could help ease the situation further, but only if the political will exists to begin even limited engagement with the regime. \"This whole crisis has shown us how little we really know about Kim Jong-un, and we're not going to learn any more unless we talk,\" he said. \"And talking isn't the same as backing down.\"At the weekend, the South Korean media reported calls from both sides of the political divide in Seoul for the administration to send an envoy to Pyongyang to lay the foundation for talks.A key new appointment in Pyongyang may have given the South an ideal negotiating partner: Pak Pong-ju, an economic reformer and pragmatist who became the North's premier last week. \"He is someone everyone can work with, including China,\" said Delury.There are clear signs that China's approach to its unpredictable ally is changing. It quickly signed up to UN sanctions after the North conducted its third nuclear test in February. Last week it voiced serious concern over the sudden escalation in rhetoric and urged calm on all sides.Washington's best chance of altering the course of events on the Korean peninsula will depend on how much further Beijing is willing to go. China has traditionally supported the status quo, which allows North Korea to act as a buffer state between it and the South, where tens of thousands of US troops are based. But a continuation of the current standoff, which could include a build-up of US military hardware, is hardly in China's interests either.China's leader, Xi Jinping, indicated on Sunday that it could respond to international pressure to rein in North Korea. He did not mention the state by name, but said in a speech to business leaders that no country should be able \"to throw the region, or even the entire world, into chaos for selfish gains\".Switzerland, meanwhile, offered to act as a mediator with Pyongyang, according to the Swiss foreign ministry, which recently made contact with the North Korean authorities. \"Switzerland is willing to contribute to a de-escalation on the Korean peninsula and is always willing to help find a solution, if this is the wish of the parties, such as hosting meetings between them,\" a spokeswoman said.Attempts to break the cycle of pressure, concessions and North Korean violations of deals on its nuclear and missile programmes would only work if China, the US and South Korea could agree on their approach, said professor Kim Hyun-wook at the Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security in Seoul. \"They have to start speaking with one voice and not give North Korea the leeway it's had up until now to turn to China for help. It must be made to believe that it can't rely on China any more.\"But my concern is that the US won't go that far. It has a lot on its plate elsewhere and only cares about North Korea when it is threatened. But it has to come around to this new, united approach.\"Washington may also have to drop its demand that Pyongyang abandon its nuclear programme. \"It now seems impossible that the North will stop building nuclear weapons, so it might be that the US and other countries will have to talk non-proliferation rather than abandonment,\" said Professor Shin Jong-dae of the University of North Korean Studies.Observers are waiting to see how South Korea's new president, Park Geun-hye, will turn her desire for \"trustpolitik\" with the North into action. A spokeswoman for Park said the administration recognised that past attempts to denuclearise the North had been unsuccessful. But possible confidence-building steps, such as the resumption of aid and cross-border dialogue, could still be some way off: \"We have no illusions that trust is something that can be built overnight,\" she said.\"It is time for the international community to fashion a truly united front to press North Korea to denuclearise. North Korea's bellicose rhetoric is by no means helpful to building an environment for restarting dialogue. Nor do we believe this is the right time to consider such high-level talks.\"But while tensions on the peninsula have eased in recent days, the DMZ is a reminder of how terrifying a cross-border conflict would be. Experts believe about 60% of North Korea's military assets, including 600,000 troops, are positioned on or near the border, the most heavily fortified in the world. Its artillery units, hidden among the mountains separating the two Koreas, could quickly destroy Seoul, just 37 miles away.In an article for the Foreign Policy website last month, North Korea experts Victor Cha and David Kang said the North could unleash 500,000 rounds of artillery on the South Korean capital in the first hour of a conflict. The promise of mutually assured destruction has prevented war, but it has done nothing to stop the North from developing its nuclear programme and potentially holding the region, and the rest of the world, to ransom.The US policy of \"strategic patience\" \u2013 sanctions coupled with displays of military power \u2013 has failed, according to Prof Kim. \"The US doesn't have a policy on North Korea, only a fruitless cycle of sanctions and dialogue,\" he said. \"And meanwhile the North's weapons capacity has grown much stronger.\"At the DMZ \"truce village\" of Panmunjom this weekend, forces from both sides performed a daily ritual stretching back decades. North Korean border guards peered through binoculars into the South, where soldiers who have been selected for border duty because of their imposing stature stared back through mirrored shades, perfectly still in a taekwondo pose designed for maximum intimidatory effect.Despite the barrage of threats from Pyongyang, all was quiet along the DMZ, where tourists were unperturbed by their proximity to danger and bought souvenir mugs and T-shirts, and rued their misfortune to visit on a day when a giant statue of Kim Il-sung, the Kaesong industrial complex and other features of the North Korean landscape were shrouded in mist. US and South Korean forces lined up near the barbed-wire fence running the entire 160-mile length of the DMZ have kept the communist wolves from its democratic neighbour's door for 60 years, our guide told us \u2013 although the South didn't hold free elections until the late 1980s.In these volatile times, it is worth remembering the DMZ's other role. Straddling the demarcation line in Panmunjom are several blue huts, where officials from North and South have historically held talks aimed at building the foundations for rapprochement. Many consider them cold war relics; would that they became the setting for a long-overdue thaw.", "tags": ["North Korea", "South Korea", "Asia Pacific", "China", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "North Korea: experts call for dialogue \u2013 and say China must play a part"},{"date": "2013-05-20T14:20:21Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "I've studied ethics as a branch of philosophy \u2013 it's fun. The theory, that is. But it is also vacuous. Worthwhile ethics can only be done with real people in front of you. You only know you've got it right when you would be happy to apply your theory to those you love.Notionally, I was convinced that a loving and compassionate God would not demand of a person extreme and prolonged suffering in order to authenticate his ultimate control. God invites us to collaborate in the adventure of living, and we are free to make life-or-death choices in many ways. Some choose to smoke or drink. Even to drive or cross the road presupposes a degree of autonomy over our mortality. It has always seemed to me perverse to deny that autonomy at the very point when we need it most.These thoughts were abstract until last year. My uncle was a well-known psychotherapist, specialising in anger management for teenagers, and had a private practice in Zurich. A millionaire, he lived a simple life with an almost Buddhist outlook. His values and his spirituality were admirable. He did not have a Protestant God's opinion as a reference point, but he had great care for human relationships and held life very precious.After a terminal diagnosis he decided not to have treatment and he and his family made all the legal and medical arrangements to enable him to choose the moment of his death. The next three years were lived to the full and he was only bedridden for two weeks. During those three years the whole family found great comfort in the fact that he did not dread pain and disability getting out of control at the end. He travelled to England to see his sister, my mother, and they said goodbye. Together the family eventually made the decision that the time had come, they gathered around him with good wine, great music \u2013 a fine and dignified death. I spoke to his widow at my own mother's funeral a few months later and she is so grateful that because they lived in Switzerland they had the freedom to make the choices they did.I've had a little time to digest this. My uncle would have been dead by now either way. His choice feels life-affirming, dignified and measured. Also, very importantly, it was loving towards his family.We need to reframe this debate. The question is not around the choice to live or die. That bit is sorted. The choice is about the manner of our death. I sit with bereaved families every week. Mostly they speak of care and kindness, of effective pain relief and a gentle slipping away. But it's not that rare to hear about difficult final days that have a nightmarish quality about them. It might be disturbingly vivid, but people do say to me \"you would never let your dog suffer like that\". I cannot believe in a God who demands that of us.Maybe we have confused the right to live one's life to the very end with a moral obligation to do so.The Catholic theologian Hans K\u00fcng gets it right in his aid-in-dying propositions. The patient will call it \"surrender of life\"; when the time of dying has come and the patient has been prepared for it, he may encounter it in submission, thankfulness and hopeful expectation. He will return his life into the hand of his creator, who is a God of mercy and not a cruel tyrant who would strive to see man in the hell of pain and helplessness as long as possible.Recent research has shown that more than 70% of people in this country would welcome a change in the law, but there are genuine fears that it could prove impossible to get the safeguards right. Doctors feel insecure, even though of course they have been easing patients' death for centuries. There is also the fear that vulnerable elderly folk will feel pressure not to be a burden on their families.The Swiss experience shows that these fears are unfounded. Since the 1940s it has been legal, within very tightly controlled rules, to help someone who wishes to die. It has not become normalised, far less expected. The numbers are low, and many more people explore the possibility and use it as an emotional safeguard, than choose to end their lives in that way.The advent of the hospice movement was the sign of a more compassionate and humane society. Well-constructed legislation which gave those few who felt the need, the opportunity to make a choice about the manner and time of their death would be another such sign.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Law", "Society", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "My uncle was able to have a dignified death \u2013 as he lived in Switzerland | Rosie Harper"},{"date": "2013-04-07T18:57:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "This 2.5-mile-wide strip of land is all that stands between about 1 million heavily armed troops ranged either side of the border between North and South Korea.The atmosphere inside the demilitarised zone (DMZ), established after the 1950-53 Korean War ended in a ceasefire, mirrors the current state of cross-border relations: prolonged tension, occasional flare-ups, and a return to the status quo.That precarious arrangement has prevented the two Koreas from going to war again, but failed to bring a real and lasting peace, say experts who believe the time has come for the US and its allies to consider a new approach to North Korea unthinkable just a week ago: dialogue.On Sunday, Washington postponed a planned intercontinental missile test, giving encouragement to observers who have urged a more moderate tone in recent days. The initial high-octane response \u2013 which included flying B2 bombers over the peninsula\u2013 has only made a bad situation worse, so the current thinking goes.\"There has been a ratcheting down of deterrence gestures by the US, and that has helped cool the situation a little,\" said John Delury, a North Korea analyst at Yonsei University in Seoul.Delury believes more aggressive diplomatic gestures could help ease the situation further, but only if the political will exists to begin even limited engagement with the regime. \"This whole crisis has shown us how little we really know about Kim Jong-un, and we're not going to learn any more unless we talk,\" he said. \"And talking isn't the same as backing down.\"At the weekend, the South Korean media reported calls from both sides of the political divide in Seoul for the administration to send an envoy to Pyongyang to lay the foundation for talks.A key new appointment in Pyongyang may have given the South an ideal negotiating partner: Pak Pong-ju, an economic reformer and pragmatist who became the North's premier last week. \"He is someone everyone can work with, including China,\" said Delury.There are clear signs that China's approach to its unpredictable ally is changing. It quickly signed up to UN sanctions after the North conducted its third nuclear test in February. Last week it voiced serious concern over the sudden escalation in rhetoric and urged calm on all sides.Washington's best chance of altering the course of events on the Korean peninsula will depend on how much further Beijing is willing to go. China has traditionally supported the status quo, which allows North Korea to act as a buffer state between it and the South, where tens of thousands of US troops are based. But a continuation of the current standoff, which could include a build-up of US military hardware, is hardly in China's interests either.China's leader, Xi Jinping, indicated on Sunday that it could respond to international pressure to rein in North Korea. He did not mention the state by name, but said in a speech to business leaders that no country should be able \"to throw the region, or even the entire world, into chaos for selfish gains\".Switzerland, meanwhile, offered to act as a mediator with Pyongyang, according to the Swiss foreign ministry, which recently made contact with the North Korean authorities. \"Switzerland is willing to contribute to a de-escalation on the Korean peninsula and is always willing to help find a solution, if this is the wish of the parties, such as hosting meetings between them,\" a spokeswoman said.Attempts to break the cycle of pressure, concessions and North Korean violations of deals on its nuclear and missile programmes would only work if China, the US and South Korea could agree on their approach, said professor Kim Hyun-wook at the Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security in Seoul. \"They have to start speaking with one voice and not give North Korea the leeway it's had up until now to turn to China for help. It must be made to believe that it can't rely on China any more.\"But my concern is that the US won't go that far. It has a lot on its plate elsewhere and only cares about North Korea when it is threatened. But it has to come around to this new, united approach.\"Washington may also have to drop its demand that Pyongyang abandon its nuclear programme. \"It now seems impossible that the North will stop building nuclear weapons, so it might be that the US and other countries will have to talk non-proliferation rather than abandonment,\" said Professor Shin Jong-dae of the University of North Korean Studies.Observers are waiting to see how South Korea's new president, Park Geun-hye, will turn her desire for \"trustpolitik\" with the North into action. A spokeswoman for Park said the administration recognised that past attempts to denuclearise the North had been unsuccessful. But possible confidence-building steps, such as the resumption of aid and cross-border dialogue, could still be some way off: \"We have no illusions that trust is something that can be built overnight,\" she said.\"It is time for the international community to fashion a truly united front to press North Korea to denuclearise. North Korea's bellicose rhetoric is by no means helpful to building an environment for restarting dialogue. Nor do we believe this is the right time to consider such high-level talks.\"But while tensions on the peninsula have eased in recent days, the DMZ is a reminder of how terrifying a cross-border conflict would be. Experts believe about 60% of North Korea's military assets, including 600,000 troops, are positioned on or near the border, the most heavily fortified in the world. Its artillery units, hidden among the mountains separating the two Koreas, could quickly destroy Seoul, just 37 miles away.In an article for the Foreign Policy website last month, North Korea experts Victor Cha and David Kang said the North could unleash 500,000 rounds of artillery on the South Korean capital in the first hour of a conflict. The promise of mutually assured destruction has prevented war, but it has done nothing to stop the North from developing its nuclear programme and potentially holding the region, and the rest of the world, to ransom.The US policy of \"strategic patience\" \u2013 sanctions coupled with displays of military power \u2013 has failed, according to Prof Kim. \"The US doesn't have a policy on North Korea, only a fruitless cycle of sanctions and dialogue,\" he said. \"And meanwhile the North's weapons capacity has grown much stronger.\"At the DMZ \"truce village\" of Panmunjom this weekend, forces from both sides performed a daily ritual stretching back decades. North Korean border guards peered through binoculars into the South, where soldiers who have been selected for border duty because of their imposing stature stared back through mirrored shades, perfectly still in a taekwondo pose designed for maximum intimidatory effect.Despite the barrage of threats from Pyongyang, all was quiet along the DMZ, where tourists were unperturbed by their proximity to danger and bought souvenir mugs and T-shirts, and rued their misfortune to visit on a day when a giant statue of Kim Il-sung, the Kaesong industrial complex and other features of the North Korean landscape were shrouded in mist. US and South Korean forces lined up near the barbed-wire fence running the entire 160-mile length of the DMZ have kept the communist wolves from its democratic neighbour's door for 60 years, our guide told us \u2013 although the South didn't hold free elections until the late 1980s.In these volatile times, it is worth remembering the DMZ's other role. Straddling the demarcation line in Panmunjom are several blue huts, where officials from North and South have historically held talks aimed at building the foundations for rapprochement. Many consider them cold war relics; would that they became the setting for a long-overdue thaw.", "tags": ["North Korea", "South Korea", "Asia Pacific", "China", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "North Korea: experts call for dialogue \u2013 and say China must play a part"},{"date": "2013-04-26T15:35:54Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When he appeared in a Madrid court, banking whistleblower Herv\u00e9 Falciani was disguised with a wig and thick-framed glasses.Facing extradition, the man behind the \"Lagarde list\" of potential tax cheats said in a newspaper interview he had fled to Spain last year when the US authorities told him it was the only country in Europe where his life would not be\u00a0in danger.Now Falciani, 41, whose spectacular theft of account data from a Swiss subsidiary of HSBC in 2006-7 has helped uncover thousands of wealthy tax fraudsters, is about to find out if he will\u00a0be extradited to Switzerland, where\u00a0he faces prosecution and up to seven years in jail.The man seen as the Bradley Manning of global tax fraud awaits a decision from Spanish judges, which may come this week. But the Spanish do not seem eager to hand him over.If Switzerland views Falciani as a common thief who deserves jail, in Spain and other cash-strapped European countries he is a hero for having helped governments in their efforts to recover hundreds of millions from tax cheats.Tax authorities in Britain, Spain and France are known to have recovered money from the estimated \u00a3200bn of missing taxes hidden in Falciani's encrypted files of bank accounts belonging to wealthy Europeans. The files became known as the Lagarde list after France's then finance minister, Christine Lagarde, now the IMF chief, passed on the data, then in the hands of the French authorities, to the US and several EU members.Spain's attorney general's office is clear that, having handed over files on tens of thousands of clients without asking for money, Falciani has not committed an extraditable crime.\"His help is not just in finding money that was hidden from tax authorities but in revealing methods employed by HSBC that allow money-laundering by drug-traffickers and terrorists,\" said Dolores Delgado, the state attorney who\u00a0opposed the extradition request in\u00a0court\u00a0on 15 April, referring to a recent decision by US authorities.In court Falciani claimed he had long been co-operating with the US justice department. It had advised him to move from France to Spain in July last year, where he was arrested at a Barcelona port and jailed for five months on a\u00a0Swiss warrant.Despite reports that, after downloading details in 2009 of what French authorities say are 130,000 accounts, he tried to sell the data in Lebanon, French and Spanish authorities confirmed he had never asked for payment. The\u00a0French public prosecutor, Eric de\u00a0Montgolfier, gave court evidence in support\u00a0of Falciani.Falciani claimed he told a Lebanese bank about the list, using the false name of Ruben al-Chidiak, to provoke a\u00a0reaction from Swiss authorities that had refused to let him make an anonymous complaint to expose the HSBC accounts. \"I wanted it to be anonymous because I\u00a0feared for my life,\" he said.David Cameron's trade minister, Lord Green, was chairman of HSBC's private banking division at the time.Delgado said Falciani held the key to the encrypted documents, meaning they could be accessed only with his help, which he had so far volunteered. \"We can't punish people who, when they observe criminal conduct where they work, denounce it to the authorities,\" she said.Falciani said he had deliberately sought the relative safety of a Spanish jail after US authorities warned him they were about to act against HSBC for laundering money from drug cartels.\"They told me that from that moment my life was at risk,\" Falciani, who has French and Italian citizenship, told El Pa\u00eds newspaper this week. \"They told me the only safe place in Europe was Spain.\"Swiss attempts to have him extradited from France backfired when Falciani offered to help prosecutors track down fraudsters. His list sparked tax investigations across Europe, with Spanish and British authorities recovering vast sums of unpaid tax.British authorities reportedly believe Falciani will help them recover \u00a3200m from details on 6,000 accounts. In the first high-profile conviction last summer, property developer Michael Shanly admitted evading \u00a3430,000 in inheritance tax and was fined \u00a3470,000.Spanish authorities have pursued hundreds of tax evaders and recovered hundreds of millions of euros. Among those investigated were Spain's Bot\u00edn banking family, including the Santander UK boss, Ana Patricia Bot\u00edn, and her father, Emilio. The courts dropped a criminal investigation when it was revealed they had paid \u20ac200m in back taxes.In Greece, meanwhile, the Hot Doc magazine editor, Kostas Vaxevanis, was arrested for publishing 2,056 Greek names allegedly on the Falciani list. Two people on the list have reportedly since died in mysterious circumstances.HSBC has said that despite Falciani's claims that he was a whistleblower, it had no record of him reporting anything to his supervisors in Geneva. A spokesman said 15,000 existing accounts are involved. But the bank is under increasing pressure from authorities around the world because of what they say is a lax attitude towards\u00a0money laundering.The US authorities slapped a record $1.9bn fine on the bank for allowing itself to be used to launder money from Mexico's Sinaloa cartel and states such as Libya, Sudan, Burma and Iran.A senate committee accused Britain's biggest bank of exposing the US financial system to \"money laundering, drug trafficking and terrorist financing risks\".Authorities decided not to prosecute because HSBC would almost certainly have lost its US banking licence, threatening its future and destabilising the banking system.The assistant attorney general, Lanny Breuer, blamed the bank's \"incredibly lax\" monitoring for the laundering of more than $881m in drug-trafficking money.HSBC said it was \"profoundly sorry\".On Tuesday, prosecutors in Paris opened an investigation, based on the list, into whether HSBC had offered illicit products to help French clients avoid tax. A bank spokesman said HSBC had not been officially informed of that investigation. And last week, Spain's supreme court confirmed the bank had been fined \u20ac2.1m fine for infringing money-laundering rules by refusing to identify 138 Swiss accounts.British tax authorities are reportedly working through a separate list of thousands of HSBC account holders in Jersey.Switzerland's $2tn offshore-banking sector, built on strict secrecy laws, is under fire from campaigners. In 2009, its largest bank, UBS, paid $78m and handed over thousands of client names to settle charges that it helped US citizens hide funds.Tax evasion deprives EU governments of roughly \u20ac1tn annually, according to the European commission, and campaigners from the Transparency Now NGO have launched an online petition calling for international action against Switzerland.Even if Spanish judges approve the extradition request, authorities can still prevent Falciani being taken to Switzerland. \"The final decision is in the hands of the government,\" said his lawyer, Joan Garc\u00e9s.", "tags": ["Christine Lagarde", "Business", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "Switzerland", "France", "Extradition"], "title": "Lagarde list whistleblower faces nervous wait for extradition verdict"},{"date": "2013-05-20T14:20:21Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "I've studied ethics as a branch of philosophy \u2013 it's fun. The theory, that is. But it is also vacuous. Worthwhile ethics can only be done with real people in front of you. You only know you've got it right when you would be happy to apply your theory to those you love.Notionally, I was convinced that a loving and compassionate God would not demand of a person extreme and prolonged suffering in order to authenticate his ultimate control. God invites us to collaborate in the adventure of living, and we are free to make life-or-death choices in many ways. Some choose to smoke or drink. Even to drive or cross the road presupposes a degree of autonomy over our mortality. It has always seemed to me perverse to deny that autonomy at the very point when we need it most.These thoughts were abstract until last year. My uncle was a well-known psychotherapist, specialising in anger management for teenagers, and had a private practice in Zurich. A millionaire, he lived a simple life with an almost Buddhist outlook. His values and his spirituality were admirable. He did not have a Protestant God's opinion as a reference point, but he had great care for human relationships and held life very precious.After a terminal diagnosis he decided not to have treatment and he and his family made all the legal and medical arrangements to enable him to choose the moment of his death. The next three years were lived to the full and he was only bedridden for two weeks. During those three years the whole family found great comfort in the fact that he did not dread pain and disability getting out of control at the end. He travelled to England to see his sister, my mother, and they said goodbye. Together the family eventually made the decision that the time had come, they gathered around him with good wine, great music \u2013 a fine and dignified death. I spoke to his widow at my own mother's funeral a few months later and she is so grateful that because they lived in Switzerland they had the freedom to make the choices they did.I've had a little time to digest this. My uncle would have been dead by now either way. His choice feels life-affirming, dignified and measured. Also, very importantly, it was loving towards his family.We need to reframe this debate. The question is not around the choice to live or die. That bit is sorted. The choice is about the manner of our death. I sit with bereaved families every week. Mostly they speak of care and kindness, of effective pain relief and a gentle slipping away. But it's not that rare to hear about difficult final days that have a nightmarish quality about them. It might be disturbingly vivid, but people do say to me \"you would never let your dog suffer like that\". I cannot believe in a God who demands that of us.Maybe we have confused the right to live one's life to the very end with a moral obligation to do so.The Catholic theologian Hans K\u00fcng gets it right in his aid-in-dying propositions. The patient will call it \"surrender of life\"; when the time of dying has come and the patient has been prepared for it, he may encounter it in submission, thankfulness and hopeful expectation. He will return his life into the hand of his creator, who is a God of mercy and not a cruel tyrant who would strive to see man in the hell of pain and helplessness as long as possible.Recent research has shown that more than 70% of people in this country would welcome a change in the law, but there are genuine fears that it could prove impossible to get the safeguards right. Doctors feel insecure, even though of course they have been easing patients' death for centuries. There is also the fear that vulnerable elderly folk will feel pressure not to be a burden on their families.The Swiss experience shows that these fears are unfounded. Since the 1940s it has been legal, within very tightly controlled rules, to help someone who wishes to die. It has not become normalised, far less expected. The numbers are low, and many more people explore the possibility and use it as an emotional safeguard, than choose to end their lives in that way.The advent of the hospice movement was the sign of a more compassionate and humane society. Well-constructed legislation which gave those few who felt the need, the opportunity to make a choice about the manner and time of their death would be another such sign.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Law", "Society", "Switzerland", "Europe", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "My uncle was able to have a dignified death \u2013 as he lived in Switzerland | Rosie Harper"},{"date": "2013-04-07T18:57:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "This 2.5-mile-wide strip of land is all that stands between about 1 million heavily armed troops ranged either side of the border between North and South Korea.The atmosphere inside the demilitarised zone (DMZ), established after the 1950-53 Korean War ended in a ceasefire, mirrors the current state of cross-border relations: prolonged tension, occasional flare-ups, and a return to the status quo.That precarious arrangement has prevented the two Koreas from going to war again, but failed to bring a real and lasting peace, say experts who believe the time has come for the US and its allies to consider a new approach to North Korea unthinkable just a week ago: dialogue.On Sunday, Washington postponed a planned intercontinental missile test, giving encouragement to observers who have urged a more moderate tone in recent days. The initial high-octane response \u2013 which included flying B2 bombers over the peninsula\u2013 has only made a bad situation worse, so the current thinking goes.\"There has been a ratcheting down of deterrence gestures by the US, and that has helped cool the situation a little,\" said John Delury, a North Korea analyst at Yonsei University in Seoul.Delury believes more aggressive diplomatic gestures could help ease the situation further, but only if the political will exists to begin even limited engagement with the regime. \"This whole crisis has shown us how little we really know about Kim Jong-un, and we're not going to learn any more unless we talk,\" he said. \"And talking isn't the same as backing down.\"At the weekend, the South Korean media reported calls from both sides of the political divide in Seoul for the administration to send an envoy to Pyongyang to lay the foundation for talks.A key new appointment in Pyongyang may have given the South an ideal negotiating partner: Pak Pong-ju, an economic reformer and pragmatist who became the North's premier last week. \"He is someone everyone can work with, including China,\" said Delury.There are clear signs that China's approach to its unpredictable ally is changing. It quickly signed up to UN sanctions after the North conducted its third nuclear test in February. Last week it voiced serious concern over the sudden escalation in rhetoric and urged calm on all sides.Washington's best chance of altering the course of events on the Korean peninsula will depend on how much further Beijing is willing to go. China has traditionally supported the status quo, which allows North Korea to act as a buffer state between it and the South, where tens of thousands of US troops are based. But a continuation of the current standoff, which could include a build-up of US military hardware, is hardly in China's interests either.China's leader, Xi Jinping, indicated on Sunday that it could respond to international pressure to rein in North Korea. He did not mention the state by name, but said in a speech to business leaders that no country should be able \"to throw the region, or even the entire world, into chaos for selfish gains\".Switzerland, meanwhile, offered to act as a mediator with Pyongyang, according to the Swiss foreign ministry, which recently made contact with the North Korean authorities. \"Switzerland is willing to contribute to a de-escalation on the Korean peninsula and is always willing to help find a solution, if this is the wish of the parties, such as hosting meetings between them,\" a spokeswoman said.Attempts to break the cycle of pressure, concessions and North Korean violations of deals on its nuclear and missile programmes would only work if China, the US and South Korea could agree on their approach, said professor Kim Hyun-wook at the Institute of Foreign Affairs and National Security in Seoul. \"They have to start speaking with one voice and not give North Korea the leeway it's had up until now to turn to China for help. It must be made to believe that it can't rely on China any more.\"But my concern is that the US won't go that far. It has a lot on its plate elsewhere and only cares about North Korea when it is threatened. But it has to come around to this new, united approach.\"Washington may also have to drop its demand that Pyongyang abandon its nuclear programme. \"It now seems impossible that the North will stop building nuclear weapons, so it might be that the US and other countries will have to talk non-proliferation rather than abandonment,\" said Professor Shin Jong-dae of the University of North Korean Studies.Observers are waiting to see how South Korea's new president, Park Geun-hye, will turn her desire for \"trustpolitik\" with the North into action. A spokeswoman for Park said the administration recognised that past attempts to denuclearise the North had been unsuccessful. But possible confidence-building steps, such as the resumption of aid and cross-border dialogue, could still be some way off: \"We have no illusions that trust is something that can be built overnight,\" she said.\"It is time for the international community to fashion a truly united front to press North Korea to denuclearise. North Korea's bellicose rhetoric is by no means helpful to building an environment for restarting dialogue. Nor do we believe this is the right time to consider such high-level talks.\"But while tensions on the peninsula have eased in recent days, the DMZ is a reminder of how terrifying a cross-border conflict would be. Experts believe about 60% of North Korea's military assets, including 600,000 troops, are positioned on or near the border, the most heavily fortified in the world. Its artillery units, hidden among the mountains separating the two Koreas, could quickly destroy Seoul, just 37 miles away.In an article for the Foreign Policy website last month, North Korea experts Victor Cha and David Kang said the North could unleash 500,000 rounds of artillery on the South Korean capital in the first hour of a conflict. The promise of mutually assured destruction has prevented war, but it has done nothing to stop the North from developing its nuclear programme and potentially holding the region, and the rest of the world, to ransom.The US policy of \"strategic patience\" \u2013 sanctions coupled with displays of military power \u2013 has failed, according to Prof Kim. \"The US doesn't have a policy on North Korea, only a fruitless cycle of sanctions and dialogue,\" he said. \"And meanwhile the North's weapons capacity has grown much stronger.\"At the DMZ \"truce village\" of Panmunjom this weekend, forces from both sides performed a daily ritual stretching back decades. North Korean border guards peered through binoculars into the South, where soldiers who have been selected for border duty because of their imposing stature stared back through mirrored shades, perfectly still in a taekwondo pose designed for maximum intimidatory effect.Despite the barrage of threats from Pyongyang, all was quiet along the DMZ, where tourists were unperturbed by their proximity to danger and bought souvenir mugs and T-shirts, and rued their misfortune to visit on a day when a giant statue of Kim Il-sung, the Kaesong industrial complex and other features of the North Korean landscape were shrouded in mist. US and South Korean forces lined up near the barbed-wire fence running the entire 160-mile length of the DMZ have kept the communist wolves from its democratic neighbour's door for 60 years, our guide told us \u2013 although the South didn't hold free elections until the late 1980s.In these volatile times, it is worth remembering the DMZ's other role. Straddling the demarcation line in Panmunjom are several blue huts, where officials from North and South have historically held talks aimed at building the foundations for rapprochement. Many consider them cold war relics; would that they became the setting for a long-overdue thaw.", "tags": ["North Korea", "South Korea", "Asia Pacific", "China", "World news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "North Korea: experts call for dialogue \u2013 and say China must play a part"},{"date": "2013-04-26T15:35:54Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When he appeared in a Madrid court, banking whistleblower Herv\u00e9 Falciani was disguised with a wig and thick-framed glasses.Facing extradition, the man behind the \"Lagarde list\" of potential tax cheats said in a newspaper interview he had fled to Spain last year when the US authorities told him it was the only country in Europe where his life would not be\u00a0in danger.Now Falciani, 41, whose spectacular theft of account data from a Swiss subsidiary of HSBC in 2006-7 has helped uncover thousands of wealthy tax fraudsters, is about to find out if he will\u00a0be extradited to Switzerland, where\u00a0he faces prosecution and up to seven years in jail.The man seen as the Bradley Manning of global tax fraud awaits a decision from Spanish judges, which may come this week. But the Spanish do not seem eager to hand him over.If Switzerland views Falciani as a common thief who deserves jail, in Spain and other cash-strapped European countries he is a hero for having helped governments in their efforts to recover hundreds of millions from tax cheats.Tax authorities in Britain, Spain and France are known to have recovered money from the estimated \u00a3200bn of missing taxes hidden in Falciani's encrypted files of bank accounts belonging to wealthy Europeans. The files became known as the Lagarde list after France's then finance minister, Christine Lagarde, now the IMF chief, passed on the data, then in the hands of the French authorities, to the US and several EU members.Spain's attorney general's office is clear that, having handed over files on tens of thousands of clients without asking for money, Falciani has not committed an extraditable crime.\"His help is not just in finding money that was hidden from tax authorities but in revealing methods employed by HSBC that allow money-laundering by drug-traffickers and terrorists,\" said Dolores Delgado, the state attorney who\u00a0opposed the extradition request in\u00a0court\u00a0on 15 April, referring to a recent decision by US authorities.In court Falciani claimed he had long been co-operating with the US justice department. It had advised him to move from France to Spain in July last year, where he was arrested at a Barcelona port and jailed for five months on a\u00a0Swiss warrant.Despite reports that, after downloading details in 2009 of what French authorities say are 130,000 accounts, he tried to sell the data in Lebanon, French and Spanish authorities confirmed he had never asked for payment. The\u00a0French public prosecutor, Eric de\u00a0Montgolfier, gave court evidence in support\u00a0of Falciani.Falciani claimed he told a Lebanese bank about the list, using the false name of Ruben al-Chidiak, to provoke a\u00a0reaction from Swiss authorities that had refused to let him make an anonymous complaint to expose the HSBC accounts. \"I wanted it to be anonymous because I\u00a0feared for my life,\" he said.David Cameron's trade minister, Lord Green, was chairman of HSBC's private banking division at the time.Delgado said Falciani held the key to the encrypted documents, meaning they could be accessed only with his help, which he had so far volunteered. \"We can't punish people who, when they observe criminal conduct where they work, denounce it to the authorities,\" she said.Falciani said he had deliberately sought the relative safety of a Spanish jail after US authorities warned him they were about to act against HSBC for laundering money from drug cartels.\"They told me that from that moment my life was at risk,\" Falciani, who has French and Italian citizenship, told El Pa\u00eds newspaper this week. \"They told me the only safe place in Europe was Spain.\"Swiss attempts to have him extradited from France backfired when Falciani offered to help prosecutors track down fraudsters. His list sparked tax investigations across Europe, with Spanish and British authorities recovering vast sums of unpaid tax.British authorities reportedly believe Falciani will help them recover \u00a3200m from details on 6,000 accounts. In the first high-profile conviction last summer, property developer Michael Shanly admitted evading \u00a3430,000 in inheritance tax and was fined \u00a3470,000.Spanish authorities have pursued hundreds of tax evaders and recovered hundreds of millions of euros. Among those investigated were Spain's Bot\u00edn banking family, including the Santander UK boss, Ana Patricia Bot\u00edn, and her father, Emilio. The courts dropped a criminal investigation when it was revealed they had paid \u20ac200m in back taxes.In Greece, meanwhile, the Hot Doc magazine editor, Kostas Vaxevanis, was arrested for publishing 2,056 Greek names allegedly on the Falciani list. Two people on the list have reportedly since died in mysterious circumstances.HSBC has said that despite Falciani's claims that he was a whistleblower, it had no record of him reporting anything to his supervisors in Geneva. A spokesman said 15,000 existing accounts are involved. But the bank is under increasing pressure from authorities around the world because of what they say is a lax attitude towards\u00a0money laundering.The US authorities slapped a record $1.9bn fine on the bank for allowing itself to be used to launder money from Mexico's Sinaloa cartel and states such as Libya, Sudan, Burma and Iran.A senate committee accused Britain's biggest bank of exposing the US financial system to \"money laundering, drug trafficking and terrorist financing risks\".Authorities decided not to prosecute because HSBC would almost certainly have lost its US banking licence, threatening its future and destabilising the banking system.The assistant attorney general, Lanny Breuer, blamed the bank's \"incredibly lax\" monitoring for the laundering of more than $881m in drug-trafficking money.HSBC said it was \"profoundly sorry\".On Tuesday, prosecutors in Paris opened an investigation, based on the list, into whether HSBC had offered illicit products to help French clients avoid tax. A bank spokesman said HSBC had not been officially informed of that investigation. And last week, Spain's supreme court confirmed the bank had been fined \u20ac2.1m fine for infringing money-laundering rules by refusing to identify 138 Swiss accounts.British tax authorities are reportedly working through a separate list of thousands of HSBC account holders in Jersey.Switzerland's $2tn offshore-banking sector, built on strict secrecy laws, is under fire from campaigners. In 2009, its largest bank, UBS, paid $78m and handed over thousands of client names to settle charges that it helped US citizens hide funds.Tax evasion deprives EU governments of roughly \u20ac1tn annually, according to the European commission, and campaigners from the Transparency Now NGO have launched an online petition calling for international action against Switzerland.Even if Spanish judges approve the extradition request, authorities can still prevent Falciani being taken to Switzerland. \"The final decision is in the hands of the government,\" said his lawyer, Joan Garc\u00e9s.", "tags": ["Christine Lagarde", "Business", "World news", "Spain", "Europe", "Switzerland", "France", "Extradition"], "title": "Lagarde list whistleblower faces nervous wait for extradition verdict"},{"date": "2013-05-08T12:57:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A Europe-wide manhunt following a daring diamond robbery in Brussels has resulted in 31 arrests in three countries.Belgian police said the co-ordinated operations on Wednesday ended with 24 people held in raids across Belgium, six in Switzerland, and one in France in relation to the eight-man heist at Brussels's main airport in February which netted an estimated \u00a332m worth of uncut gems.Police said some of the diamonds were recovered in Switzerland, while many of the arrests in Belgium concerned individuals known to authorities as members of Brussels's criminal underworld.\"At least 10 of the men arrested in Belgium were known to the justice authorities, mainly for armed attacks. They were part of the Brussels criminal milieu,\" said a Brussels police spokesman, Jean-Marc Meilleur. \"We're assuming that the man arrested in France is one of the perpetrators of the attack.\"The robbery was carried out with precision and speed on the evening of 18 February and appeared to have been carried out with detailed insider knowledge.A Helvetica Airways passenger plane was gearing up for takeoff as the mainly uncut stones from Antwerp, the world's diamond trading centre half an hour's drive away, were loaded into the luggage hold from a Brinks security van.The gang of eight masked and heavily armed men cut through the security fencing near the Swiss plane and also opened a nearby gate. They drove up in two black vehicles with blue police lights flashing, held the plane and Brinks staff at gunpoint, quickly opened the luggage hold, took 121 packets of diamonds and rapidly made off.The heist took 15 minutes without a shot being fired. One of the vehicles used in the robbery, a stolen Mercedes taxi, was later found burnt out and abandoned. The other, an Audi, bore a French number plate.The ease and speed with which the robbery was carried out has raised questions about security at Zaventem airport, outside Brussels.The diamonds, bound for India via Zurich, were mainly uncut, meaning they carried no certification, making them harder to trace and easier to sell on.The Frenchman held on Wednesday was arrested under a European arrest warrant and the Belgians are requesting his extradition, although it is not clear if the same applies to the six arrests in Switzerland.", "tags": ["Belgium", "France", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "31 arrested over \u00a332m diamond robbery at Brussels airport"},{"date": "2013-09-06T20:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss hiking trails often lead you into and over colossal mountains, out of the tree line, up towards snowy peaks, but a newly created route in the spectacular Graub\u00fcnden region sticks close to the tumbling river Flem, travelling through sedate valleys and wooden ravines as well as Alpine pastures. In addition, seven impressive and elegant footbridges over the river have been created for a new architecture project, designed by Switzerland's pre-eminent bridge engineer, J\u00fcrg Conzett, making a walk along the new Trutg dil Flem Wasserweg (Water Way) a cultural as well as an active experience.For someone heavily involved in sustainable architecture, with a passion for the Graub\u00fcnden in particular, this was the perfect opportunity for some late summer hiking. After spending a night in Laax, I was dropped off by the local bus for hikers and set out from the isolated Sesgneshutte, where the Water Way's official beginning was marked by yellow signposts and red-and-white paint marks.Up on the plateau, grey and sandy rivulets spread across the fluvial bed, patterning the boggy land. Scree lay ahead, and \u2013 far away on the other side of the Upper Rhine valley \u2013 huge mountains.Above me was the foreboding, craggy spectacle of the 250-million-year-old saw-tooth Sardona peaks. Instead of reaching for these, the path descended towards some small upland Swiss firs.Among these was the first of Conzett's bridges, an oversized ovoid pebble over a deep, gurgling gorge. Crickets and the reassuring sound of Swiss cow bells tinkling away, not too far off, accompanied the downward pull, but these were soon drowned out by the roar of the water over rocks, while in the pasture iconic edelweiss, miniature buttercups and other Alpine flowers were still flowering in the early autumn. A short distance away was a second, timber, bridge, giving another view of the gulley waterfall.Further bridges appeared as I\u00a0continued, including a steel and concrete mushroom and, later, close to the end of the trail, the beautiful waterfall bridge.The walk was relatively short, as mountain hikes go: six hours of undemanding, family-friendly hiking to Flims. By then, the Alpine mountainscapes were firmly lodged in my mind, along with the bridges \u2013 delicate additions to\u00a0the pretty scenery.As the Water Way's founder, Guido Casto, later told me: \"We wanted to make a small intervention, but it must never be too much, otherwise you lose the spirit of the mountains.\"Guido, a local restaurateur who had been involved in other local architecture projects, had the idea for the bridges while hiking in 2009. Although the area's mountain path network was well developed, there were no trekking routes highlighting the river, nor paths through its wooded, ravine sections and hunters. So he took the idea to the town council, and after enrolling Conzett (and following many consultations and negotiations with landowners) the go-ahead was given, by the council at a cost of almost \u00a3500,000.Today, Graub\u00fcnden's architectural profile is gaining international recognition, which should help to encourage more holidaymakers to a region which is still unfamiliar to most British travellers.Despite being Switzerland's largest (though least populated) canton, the places that people are most familiar with in Graub\u00fcnden are the flashy ski resorts of Davos, Kloisters and St\u00a0Moritz. Elsewhere, the canton, located in the east of the country, is rich in Alpine beauty and the laid-back charm of simple lives.And even if there are no peaks to match the Matterhorn, Eiger or Jungfrau, destinations such as Disentis, Ilanz, Thusis or Zernez (gateway to the national park) deserve to be better-known. Likewise the canton's main hub town, Chur, which was once a Roman stop-off.After my walk, I visited other significant architecture projects in the area, including Vals Thermal Baths, by the Pritzker prize-winning architect Peter\u00a0Zumthor, and work by Gion\u00a0Caminada, a village architect who builds only in his tiny upland village of Vrin, attempting to stem the tide of rural decline there. As one local said: \"There won't be any ski lifts in Vrin as long as Caminada is around.\"Down in the valley town of Ilanz is the first rammed-earth- walled cinema in Switzerland, and indeed the world, designed by Gordian Blumenthal and Ramun Capaul, both of whom hail from the mountains.A growing network of modern Swiss Alpine Club mountain hostels add to this architecture-meets-the-wilds movement. From Vrin, a mountain walk on to the Greina, the high plateau and ancient highland pathway which begins a\u00a0few hours above the village, leads to them.Caminada's Terri\u00a0Hut can be reached in a day. Hikers can continue walking from there to Medelserhutte (+41 8\u00a01949 1403, medelserhuette.ch, rooms from \u00a353 half-board). Or from Disentis, further up the Surselva Upper Rhine valley, it's a\u00a0similar hike to the recently opened Alp Glivers hostel (+41 7 9220 4435, amarenda.ch, rooms from \u00a351 half-board), by Conrad Pally, an architect-carpenter.According to Guido, and others I met, summer/autumn tourism in the area is on the increase, aided by these projects, and by the creation of new paths \u2013 including a series of old mountain trails from the western Surselva valley, or the Via Mala, running from the north to Splugia in the south, which are historically part of the local Romanisch culture.For anyone wanting the exhilaration mountain walking brings, plus an intriguing cultural dimension, Graub\u00fcnden and its unique architectural culture is the place to head for.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com), which provided flights from London to Zurich, two nights' hotel accommodation and a four-day train pass. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a327.99 one way. Swiss railways (sbb.ch) runs a half-hour service from Zurich to Chur. From Chur there is an hourly service along the Surselva valley to Ilanz and Disentis, where you can change onto another local train over the Oberalpen pass to Andematt. The Glacier Express (glacierexpress.ch also travels this route, though it's more expensive. There is also the Bernina Express route myswitzerland.com, which runs into the Hinterrhein, through Thusis and near to the Via Mala route to St Moritz. More information on holidays in the area from en.graubuenden.chOliver Lowenstein runs the Fourth Door Review architecture magazine", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Architecture", "Art and design"], "title": "Switzerland: Graub\u00fcnden's walking trail of epic scenery and enduring art"},{"date": "2013-09-06T20:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss hiking trails often lead you into and over colossal mountains, out of the tree line, up towards snowy peaks, but a newly created route in the spectacular Graub\u00fcnden region sticks close to the tumbling river Flem, travelling through sedate valleys and wooden ravines as well as Alpine pastures. In addition, seven impressive and elegant footbridges over the river have been created for a new architecture project, designed by Switzerland's pre-eminent bridge engineer, J\u00fcrg Conzett, making a walk along the new Trutg dil Flem Wasserweg (Water Way) a cultural as well as an active experience.For someone heavily involved in sustainable architecture, with a passion for the Graub\u00fcnden in particular, this was the perfect opportunity for some late summer hiking. After spending a night in Laax, I was dropped off by the local bus for hikers and set out from the isolated Sesgneshutte, where the Water Way's official beginning was marked by yellow signposts and red-and-white paint marks.Up on the plateau, grey and sandy rivulets spread across the fluvial bed, patterning the boggy land. Scree lay ahead, and \u2013 far away on the other side of the Upper Rhine valley \u2013 huge mountains.Above me was the foreboding, craggy spectacle of the 250-million-year-old saw-tooth Sardona peaks. Instead of reaching for these, the path descended towards some small upland Swiss firs.Among these was the first of Conzett's bridges, an oversized ovoid pebble over a deep, gurgling gorge. Crickets and the reassuring sound of Swiss cow bells tinkling away, not too far off, accompanied the downward pull, but these were soon drowned out by the roar of the water over rocks, while in the pasture iconic edelweiss, miniature buttercups and other Alpine flowers were still flowering in the early autumn. A short distance away was a second, timber, bridge, giving another view of the gulley waterfall.Further bridges appeared as I\u00a0continued, including a steel and concrete mushroom and, later, close to the end of the trail, the beautiful waterfall bridge.The walk was relatively short, as mountain hikes go: six hours of undemanding, family-friendly hiking to Flims. By then, the Alpine mountainscapes were firmly lodged in my mind, along with the bridges \u2013 delicate additions to\u00a0the pretty scenery.As the Water Way's founder, Guido Casto, later told me: \"We wanted to make a small intervention, but it must never be too much, otherwise you lose the spirit of the mountains.\"Guido, a local restaurateur who had been involved in other local architecture projects, had the idea for the bridges while hiking in 2009. Although the area's mountain path network was well developed, there were no trekking routes highlighting the river, nor paths through its wooded, ravine sections and hunters. So he took the idea to the town council, and after enrolling Conzett (and following many consultations and negotiations with landowners) the go-ahead was given, by the council at a cost of almost \u00a3500,000.Today, Graub\u00fcnden's architectural profile is gaining international recognition, which should help to encourage more holidaymakers to a region which is still unfamiliar to most British travellers.Despite being Switzerland's largest (though least populated) canton, the places that people are most familiar with in Graub\u00fcnden are the flashy ski resorts of Davos, Kloisters and St\u00a0Moritz. Elsewhere, the canton, located in the east of the country, is rich in Alpine beauty and the laid-back charm of simple lives.And even if there are no peaks to match the Matterhorn, Eiger or Jungfrau, destinations such as Disentis, Ilanz, Thusis or Zernez (gateway to the national park) deserve to be better-known. Likewise the canton's main hub town, Chur, which was once a Roman stop-off.After my walk, I visited other significant architecture projects in the area, including Vals Thermal Baths, by the Pritzker prize-winning architect Peter\u00a0Zumthor, and work by Gion\u00a0Caminada, a village architect who builds only in his tiny upland village of Vrin, attempting to stem the tide of rural decline there. As one local said: \"There won't be any ski lifts in Vrin as long as Caminada is around.\"Down in the valley town of Ilanz is the first rammed-earth- walled cinema in Switzerland, and indeed the world, designed by Gordian Blumenthal and Ramun Capaul, both of whom hail from the mountains.A growing network of modern Swiss Alpine Club mountain hostels add to this architecture-meets-the-wilds movement. From Vrin, a mountain walk on to the Greina, the high plateau and ancient highland pathway which begins a\u00a0few hours above the village, leads to them.Caminada's Terri\u00a0Hut can be reached in a day. Hikers can continue walking from there to Medelserhutte (+41 8\u00a01949 1403, medelserhuette.ch, rooms from \u00a353 half-board). Or from Disentis, further up the Surselva Upper Rhine valley, it's a\u00a0similar hike to the recently opened Alp Glivers hostel (+41 7 9220 4435, amarenda.ch, rooms from \u00a351 half-board), by Conrad Pally, an architect-carpenter.According to Guido, and others I met, summer/autumn tourism in the area is on the increase, aided by these projects, and by the creation of new paths \u2013 including a series of old mountain trails from the western Surselva valley, or the Via Mala, running from the north to Splugia in the south, which are historically part of the local Romanisch culture.For anyone wanting the exhilaration mountain walking brings, plus an intriguing cultural dimension, Graub\u00fcnden and its unique architectural culture is the place to head for.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com), which provided flights from London to Zurich, two nights' hotel accommodation and a four-day train pass. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a327.99 one way. Swiss railways (sbb.ch) runs a half-hour service from Zurich to Chur. From Chur there is an hourly service along the Surselva valley to Ilanz and Disentis, where you can change onto another local train over the Oberalpen pass to Andematt. The Glacier Express (glacierexpress.ch also travels this route, though it's more expensive. There is also the Bernina Express route myswitzerland.com, which runs into the Hinterrhein, through Thusis and near to the Via Mala route to St Moritz. More information on holidays in the area from en.graubuenden.chOliver Lowenstein runs the Fourth Door Review architecture magazine", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Architecture", "Art and design"], "title": "Switzerland: Graub\u00fcnden's walking trail of epic scenery and enduring art"},{"date": "2013-08-21T16:06:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A row between Italy and Switzerland over Italian bears that roam across Alpine borders is focusing on how the two nations define \"badly behaved\".The bust up over bear etiquette started with a curt statement issued this month by the Swiss canton of Graub\u00fcnden about bears wandering in from the Italian region of Trentino \u2013 where a bear repopulation scheme is under way \u2013 to forage for food, eat livestock and generally be a nuisance.\"These bears constitute an obstacle to the acceptance of this large predator by the local population,\" said the Swiss statement. \"The culling of problem bears needs to happen when they are young, in their own territory.\"Over in Italy, experts pointed out that weeding out \"problem\" bears in their youth would be difficult as would be agreeing with the Swiss on what constitutes misbehaviour.\"What horror!\" said Rosa Marino, an official with the Italian League for the Abolition of Hunting. \"Is this what is wrong with the world? A bear who wakes up hungry from hibernating, who tries to avoid meeting humans who have built on every centimetre of his territory and who eats what he can find for breakfast?\"The Swiss, who often look down their noses at what they consider the less than well-organised behaviour of Italian humans, have shown even less tolerance of unruly Italian bears, killing one specimen, known as M13, this year after it wandered into the town of Poschiavo.One Italian expert said it was time to seek a cross-border compromise on bear behaviour before more blood was spilt.\"To confront the issue of border crossings, it is indispensible that an accord is reached under which we can establish when a bear can be considered problematic,\" Luigi Boitani, a professor of zoology at the Sapienza in Rome, told La Repubblica.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Switzerland", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Italy and Switzerland in row over 'badly behaved' bears"},{"date": "2013-09-06T20:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss hiking trails often lead you into and over colossal mountains, out of the tree line, up towards snowy peaks, but a newly created route in the spectacular Graub\u00fcnden region sticks close to the tumbling river Flem, travelling through sedate valleys and wooden ravines as well as Alpine pastures. In addition, seven impressive and elegant footbridges over the river have been created for a new architecture project, designed by Switzerland's pre-eminent bridge engineer, J\u00fcrg Conzett, making a walk along the new Trutg dil Flem Wasserweg (Water Way) a cultural as well as an active experience.For someone heavily involved in sustainable architecture, with a passion for the Graub\u00fcnden in particular, this was the perfect opportunity for some late summer hiking. After spending a night in Laax, I was dropped off by the local bus for hikers and set out from the isolated Sesgneshutte, where the Water Way's official beginning was marked by yellow signposts and red-and-white paint marks.Up on the plateau, grey and sandy rivulets spread across the fluvial bed, patterning the boggy land. Scree lay ahead, and \u2013 far away on the other side of the Upper Rhine valley \u2013 huge mountains.Above me was the foreboding, craggy spectacle of the 250-million-year-old saw-tooth Sardona peaks. Instead of reaching for these, the path descended towards some small upland Swiss firs.Among these was the first of Conzett's bridges, an oversized ovoid pebble over a deep, gurgling gorge. Crickets and the reassuring sound of Swiss cow bells tinkling away, not too far off, accompanied the downward pull, but these were soon drowned out by the roar of the water over rocks, while in the pasture iconic edelweiss, miniature buttercups and other Alpine flowers were still flowering in the early autumn. A short distance away was a second, timber, bridge, giving another view of the gulley waterfall.Further bridges appeared as I\u00a0continued, including a steel and concrete mushroom and, later, close to the end of the trail, the beautiful waterfall bridge.The walk was relatively short, as mountain hikes go: six hours of undemanding, family-friendly hiking to Flims. By then, the Alpine mountainscapes were firmly lodged in my mind, along with the bridges \u2013 delicate additions to\u00a0the pretty scenery.As the Water Way's founder, Guido Casto, later told me: \"We wanted to make a small intervention, but it must never be too much, otherwise you lose the spirit of the mountains.\"Guido, a local restaurateur who had been involved in other local architecture projects, had the idea for the bridges while hiking in 2009. Although the area's mountain path network was well developed, there were no trekking routes highlighting the river, nor paths through its wooded, ravine sections and hunters. So he took the idea to the town council, and after enrolling Conzett (and following many consultations and negotiations with landowners) the go-ahead was given, by the council at a cost of almost \u00a3500,000.Today, Graub\u00fcnden's architectural profile is gaining international recognition, which should help to encourage more holidaymakers to a region which is still unfamiliar to most British travellers.Despite being Switzerland's largest (though least populated) canton, the places that people are most familiar with in Graub\u00fcnden are the flashy ski resorts of Davos, Kloisters and St\u00a0Moritz. Elsewhere, the canton, located in the east of the country, is rich in Alpine beauty and the laid-back charm of simple lives.And even if there are no peaks to match the Matterhorn, Eiger or Jungfrau, destinations such as Disentis, Ilanz, Thusis or Zernez (gateway to the national park) deserve to be better-known. Likewise the canton's main hub town, Chur, which was once a Roman stop-off.After my walk, I visited other significant architecture projects in the area, including Vals Thermal Baths, by the Pritzker prize-winning architect Peter\u00a0Zumthor, and work by Gion\u00a0Caminada, a village architect who builds only in his tiny upland village of Vrin, attempting to stem the tide of rural decline there. As one local said: \"There won't be any ski lifts in Vrin as long as Caminada is around.\"Down in the valley town of Ilanz is the first rammed-earth- walled cinema in Switzerland, and indeed the world, designed by Gordian Blumenthal and Ramun Capaul, both of whom hail from the mountains.A growing network of modern Swiss Alpine Club mountain hostels add to this architecture-meets-the-wilds movement. From Vrin, a mountain walk on to the Greina, the high plateau and ancient highland pathway which begins a\u00a0few hours above the village, leads to them.Caminada's Terri\u00a0Hut can be reached in a day. Hikers can continue walking from there to Medelserhutte (+41 8\u00a01949 1403, medelserhuette.ch, rooms from \u00a353 half-board). Or from Disentis, further up the Surselva Upper Rhine valley, it's a\u00a0similar hike to the recently opened Alp Glivers hostel (+41 7 9220 4435, amarenda.ch, rooms from \u00a351 half-board), by Conrad Pally, an architect-carpenter.According to Guido, and others I met, summer/autumn tourism in the area is on the increase, aided by these projects, and by the creation of new paths \u2013 including a series of old mountain trails from the western Surselva valley, or the Via Mala, running from the north to Splugia in the south, which are historically part of the local Romanisch culture.For anyone wanting the exhilaration mountain walking brings, plus an intriguing cultural dimension, Graub\u00fcnden and its unique architectural culture is the place to head for.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com), which provided flights from London to Zurich, two nights' hotel accommodation and a four-day train pass. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a327.99 one way. Swiss railways (sbb.ch) runs a half-hour service from Zurich to Chur. From Chur there is an hourly service along the Surselva valley to Ilanz and Disentis, where you can change onto another local train over the Oberalpen pass to Andematt. The Glacier Express (glacierexpress.ch also travels this route, though it's more expensive. There is also the Bernina Express route myswitzerland.com, which runs into the Hinterrhein, through Thusis and near to the Via Mala route to St Moritz. More information on holidays in the area from en.graubuenden.chOliver Lowenstein runs the Fourth Door Review architecture magazine", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Architecture", "Art and design"], "title": "Switzerland: Graub\u00fcnden's walking trail of epic scenery and enduring art"},{"date": "2013-08-21T16:06:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A row between Italy and Switzerland over Italian bears that roam across Alpine borders is focusing on how the two nations define \"badly behaved\".The bust up over bear etiquette started with a curt statement issued this month by the Swiss canton of Graub\u00fcnden about bears wandering in from the Italian region of Trentino \u2013 where a bear repopulation scheme is under way \u2013 to forage for food, eat livestock and generally be a nuisance.\"These bears constitute an obstacle to the acceptance of this large predator by the local population,\" said the Swiss statement. \"The culling of problem bears needs to happen when they are young, in their own territory.\"Over in Italy, experts pointed out that weeding out \"problem\" bears in their youth would be difficult as would be agreeing with the Swiss on what constitutes misbehaviour.\"What horror!\" said Rosa Marino, an official with the Italian League for the Abolition of Hunting. \"Is this what is wrong with the world? A bear who wakes up hungry from hibernating, who tries to avoid meeting humans who have built on every centimetre of his territory and who eats what he can find for breakfast?\"The Swiss, who often look down their noses at what they consider the less than well-organised behaviour of Italian humans, have shown even less tolerance of unruly Italian bears, killing one specimen, known as M13, this year after it wandered into the town of Poschiavo.One Italian expert said it was time to seek a cross-border compromise on bear behaviour before more blood was spilt.\"To confront the issue of border crossings, it is indispensible that an accord is reached under which we can establish when a bear can be considered problematic,\" Luigi Boitani, a professor of zoology at the Sapienza in Rome, told La Repubblica.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Switzerland", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Italy and Switzerland in row over 'badly behaved' bears"},{"date": "2013-07-11T13:36:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "If Ipsa's recommendations go ahead, British MPs' incomes will rise to \u00a374,000 by 2015. But how do those salaries compare to those received by legislators elsewhere? Based on 2012 earnings, the annual basic salary of MPs in Westminster is considerably higher than that of representatives in devolved legislatures. Those who sit in the Scottish parliament earn \u00a357,520 a year while those in the Northern Ireland assembly earn a third less at just \u00a343,101.But looking beyond the British Isles, MPs may feel differently about their pay packets. Japanese legislators earn two and a half times what those in the UK do, and those in Australia earn almost double.The parliamentary authority only drew comparisons between other developed, mostly western countries in their October consultation. But that doesn't mean that representatives in the world's poorest countries receive small sums - far from it. Last month, Kenyan MPs finally bowed to pressure about a pay cut from $120,000 a year to $75,000 (as well as a one-off $59,000 grant to buy a vehicle). For many, the moral legitimacy of earnings is closely tied to national wealth. The average salary in Kenya is $1,700 a year (\u00a31,116), making public officials appear extremely divorced from the experiences of their electorate.So, to really give context to the MPs' earnings, indicators like GDP per capita are crucial. On this score, the UK edges up the list, with MPs earning 3.1x the average wealth per individual - a ratio similar to those found in Canada, Germany and Ireland.Although it doesn't take into account the cost of living in a country, some of these figures are quite striking. Japanese policymakers earn 6.6 times the national GDP per capita - in Italy, it's 9.3 times more.Do these figures suggest how fair our MPs' salaries are or is this an unfair basis of comparison? Share your views by posting a comment below.\u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet\u2022 Email us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook\u2022 Post a comment belowData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian", "tags": ["MPs' expenses", "UK news", "House of Commons"], "title": "MPs' pay: higher than Switzerland, lower than Norway"},{"date": "2013-09-06T20:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss hiking trails often lead you into and over colossal mountains, out of the tree line, up towards snowy peaks, but a newly created route in the spectacular Graub\u00fcnden region sticks close to the tumbling river Flem, travelling through sedate valleys and wooden ravines as well as Alpine pastures. In addition, seven impressive and elegant footbridges over the river have been created for a new architecture project, designed by Switzerland's pre-eminent bridge engineer, J\u00fcrg Conzett, making a walk along the new Trutg dil Flem Wasserweg (Water Way) a cultural as well as an active experience.For someone heavily involved in sustainable architecture, with a passion for the Graub\u00fcnden in particular, this was the perfect opportunity for some late summer hiking. After spending a night in Laax, I was dropped off by the local bus for hikers and set out from the isolated Sesgneshutte, where the Water Way's official beginning was marked by yellow signposts and red-and-white paint marks.Up on the plateau, grey and sandy rivulets spread across the fluvial bed, patterning the boggy land. Scree lay ahead, and \u2013 far away on the other side of the Upper Rhine valley \u2013 huge mountains.Above me was the foreboding, craggy spectacle of the 250-million-year-old saw-tooth Sardona peaks. Instead of reaching for these, the path descended towards some small upland Swiss firs.Among these was the first of Conzett's bridges, an oversized ovoid pebble over a deep, gurgling gorge. Crickets and the reassuring sound of Swiss cow bells tinkling away, not too far off, accompanied the downward pull, but these were soon drowned out by the roar of the water over rocks, while in the pasture iconic edelweiss, miniature buttercups and other Alpine flowers were still flowering in the early autumn. A short distance away was a second, timber, bridge, giving another view of the gulley waterfall.Further bridges appeared as I\u00a0continued, including a steel and concrete mushroom and, later, close to the end of the trail, the beautiful waterfall bridge.The walk was relatively short, as mountain hikes go: six hours of undemanding, family-friendly hiking to Flims. By then, the Alpine mountainscapes were firmly lodged in my mind, along with the bridges \u2013 delicate additions to\u00a0the pretty scenery.As the Water Way's founder, Guido Casto, later told me: \"We wanted to make a small intervention, but it must never be too much, otherwise you lose the spirit of the mountains.\"Guido, a local restaurateur who had been involved in other local architecture projects, had the idea for the bridges while hiking in 2009. Although the area's mountain path network was well developed, there were no trekking routes highlighting the river, nor paths through its wooded, ravine sections and hunters. So he took the idea to the town council, and after enrolling Conzett (and following many consultations and negotiations with landowners) the go-ahead was given, by the council at a cost of almost \u00a3500,000.Today, Graub\u00fcnden's architectural profile is gaining international recognition, which should help to encourage more holidaymakers to a region which is still unfamiliar to most British travellers.Despite being Switzerland's largest (though least populated) canton, the places that people are most familiar with in Graub\u00fcnden are the flashy ski resorts of Davos, Kloisters and St\u00a0Moritz. Elsewhere, the canton, located in the east of the country, is rich in Alpine beauty and the laid-back charm of simple lives.And even if there are no peaks to match the Matterhorn, Eiger or Jungfrau, destinations such as Disentis, Ilanz, Thusis or Zernez (gateway to the national park) deserve to be better-known. Likewise the canton's main hub town, Chur, which was once a Roman stop-off.After my walk, I visited other significant architecture projects in the area, including Vals Thermal Baths, by the Pritzker prize-winning architect Peter\u00a0Zumthor, and work by Gion\u00a0Caminada, a village architect who builds only in his tiny upland village of Vrin, attempting to stem the tide of rural decline there. As one local said: \"There won't be any ski lifts in Vrin as long as Caminada is around.\"Down in the valley town of Ilanz is the first rammed-earth- walled cinema in Switzerland, and indeed the world, designed by Gordian Blumenthal and Ramun Capaul, both of whom hail from the mountains.A growing network of modern Swiss Alpine Club mountain hostels add to this architecture-meets-the-wilds movement. From Vrin, a mountain walk on to the Greina, the high plateau and ancient highland pathway which begins a\u00a0few hours above the village, leads to them.Caminada's Terri\u00a0Hut can be reached in a day. Hikers can continue walking from there to Medelserhutte (+41 8\u00a01949 1403, medelserhuette.ch, rooms from \u00a353 half-board). Or from Disentis, further up the Surselva Upper Rhine valley, it's a\u00a0similar hike to the recently opened Alp Glivers hostel (+41 7 9220 4435, amarenda.ch, rooms from \u00a351 half-board), by Conrad Pally, an architect-carpenter.According to Guido, and others I met, summer/autumn tourism in the area is on the increase, aided by these projects, and by the creation of new paths \u2013 including a series of old mountain trails from the western Surselva valley, or the Via Mala, running from the north to Splugia in the south, which are historically part of the local Romanisch culture.For anyone wanting the exhilaration mountain walking brings, plus an intriguing cultural dimension, Graub\u00fcnden and its unique architectural culture is the place to head for.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com), which provided flights from London to Zurich, two nights' hotel accommodation and a four-day train pass. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a327.99 one way. Swiss railways (sbb.ch) runs a half-hour service from Zurich to Chur. From Chur there is an hourly service along the Surselva valley to Ilanz and Disentis, where you can change onto another local train over the Oberalpen pass to Andematt. The Glacier Express (glacierexpress.ch also travels this route, though it's more expensive. There is also the Bernina Express route myswitzerland.com, which runs into the Hinterrhein, through Thusis and near to the Via Mala route to St Moritz. More information on holidays in the area from en.graubuenden.chOliver Lowenstein runs the Fourth Door Review architecture magazine", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Architecture", "Art and design"], "title": "Switzerland: Graub\u00fcnden's walking trail of epic scenery and enduring art"},{"date": "2013-08-21T16:06:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A row between Italy and Switzerland over Italian bears that roam across Alpine borders is focusing on how the two nations define \"badly behaved\".The bust up over bear etiquette started with a curt statement issued this month by the Swiss canton of Graub\u00fcnden about bears wandering in from the Italian region of Trentino \u2013 where a bear repopulation scheme is under way \u2013 to forage for food, eat livestock and generally be a nuisance.\"These bears constitute an obstacle to the acceptance of this large predator by the local population,\" said the Swiss statement. \"The culling of problem bears needs to happen when they are young, in their own territory.\"Over in Italy, experts pointed out that weeding out \"problem\" bears in their youth would be difficult as would be agreeing with the Swiss on what constitutes misbehaviour.\"What horror!\" said Rosa Marino, an official with the Italian League for the Abolition of Hunting. \"Is this what is wrong with the world? A bear who wakes up hungry from hibernating, who tries to avoid meeting humans who have built on every centimetre of his territory and who eats what he can find for breakfast?\"The Swiss, who often look down their noses at what they consider the less than well-organised behaviour of Italian humans, have shown even less tolerance of unruly Italian bears, killing one specimen, known as M13, this year after it wandered into the town of Poschiavo.One Italian expert said it was time to seek a cross-border compromise on bear behaviour before more blood was spilt.\"To confront the issue of border crossings, it is indispensible that an accord is reached under which we can establish when a bear can be considered problematic,\" Luigi Boitani, a professor of zoology at the Sapienza in Rome, told La Repubblica.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Switzerland", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Italy and Switzerland in row over 'badly behaved' bears"},{"date": "2013-07-11T13:36:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "If Ipsa's recommendations go ahead, British MPs' incomes will rise to \u00a374,000 by 2015. But how do those salaries compare to those received by legislators elsewhere? Based on 2012 earnings, the annual basic salary of MPs in Westminster is considerably higher than that of representatives in devolved legislatures. Those who sit in the Scottish parliament earn \u00a357,520 a year while those in the Northern Ireland assembly earn a third less at just \u00a343,101.But looking beyond the British Isles, MPs may feel differently about their pay packets. Japanese legislators earn two and a half times what those in the UK do, and those in Australia earn almost double.The parliamentary authority only drew comparisons between other developed, mostly western countries in their October consultation. But that doesn't mean that representatives in the world's poorest countries receive small sums - far from it. Last month, Kenyan MPs finally bowed to pressure about a pay cut from $120,000 a year to $75,000 (as well as a one-off $59,000 grant to buy a vehicle). For many, the moral legitimacy of earnings is closely tied to national wealth. The average salary in Kenya is $1,700 a year (\u00a31,116), making public officials appear extremely divorced from the experiences of their electorate.So, to really give context to the MPs' earnings, indicators like GDP per capita are crucial. On this score, the UK edges up the list, with MPs earning 3.1x the average wealth per individual - a ratio similar to those found in Canada, Germany and Ireland.Although it doesn't take into account the cost of living in a country, some of these figures are quite striking. Japanese policymakers earn 6.6 times the national GDP per capita - in Italy, it's 9.3 times more.Do these figures suggest how fair our MPs' salaries are or is this an unfair basis of comparison? Share your views by posting a comment below.\u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet\u2022 Email us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook\u2022 Post a comment belowData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian", "tags": ["MPs' expenses", "UK news", "House of Commons"], "title": "MPs' pay: higher than Switzerland, lower than Norway"},{"date": "2013-07-05T13:18:17Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Treasury's attempt to tax wealthy individuals who hide their assets in Switzerland was declared an embarrassing failure by experts on Friday after the Swiss authorities said it would generate only a small fraction of the expected \u00a33.2bn haul.The Tax Justice Network campaign group said \"giant loopholes\" in the deal struck by the Treasury minister David Gauke and former HMRC chief David Hartnett had undermined the UK's attempt to trawl the Swiss banking system for untaxed funds.According to the Swiss Bankers Association (SBA), the deal does not apply to most UK nationals who keep their cash in Swiss banks because they are not domiciled in the UK.The SBA said the UK may get little more than a CHF500m (\u00a3347m) minimum levy agreed with the UK after individual banks found only small sums from UK citizens were caught by the deal.The Swiss declaration is not only embarrassing for the Treasury, it also This knocks a sizeable hole in public finances as the Office for National Statistics controversially included the \u00a33.2bn in May's public accounts.The levy contributed to a narrowing of government borrowing from \u00a315.6bn in May 2012 to \u00a312.7bn.According to the Treasury's red book, which forecasts tax revenues over the next five years, a one-off levy on Swiss assets owned by UK residents, ranging from 21% to 41%, was due to raise \u00a33.2bn in this tax year.A withholding tax on future gains and income of up to 43% was expected to rake in \u00a3610m in 2014-15 and \u00a3920m in the following year. Much of that income must now be in doubt, the Tax Justice Network said.Coming only a year after the government cut the top rate of tax from 50p to 45p, the campaign group said the deal was a huge giveaway to wealthy UK nationals able to hide their assets in tax havens.\"The Swiss withholding tax model is now dead. Dave Hartnett, David Gauke and the government that sanctioned this deal must now hang their heads in shame,\" it said.A spokesman for the SBA, which lobbies on behalf of all the major Swiss banks, said the deal was proceeding and it was too early to predict how much money would be declared to the Swiss and UK tax authorities, though it was already clear fewer untaxed assets than expected had come to light.\"This is mainly due to the fact that many clients have resident non-domiciled status. These clients are not liable to taxation in the UK and thus do not fall under the agreement,\" it said.The SBA said numerous UK clients had chosen to make voluntary disclosures to the tax authorities, which the association said was not surprising given Switzerland's announced adoption of a global standard for the automatic exchange of information.It is not clear how much the Treasury has received directly from UK citizens who opted to make a voluntary disclosure of their tax position, but tax experts said it was unlikely to make a material difference to the shortfall.But a Treasury spokeswoman said there was no reason to revise the estimated revenue from the deal.She said: \"As the SBA has said, more people have chosen to disclose their tax affairs to HMRC than expected so the yield from this route is likely to be higher than anticipated.\" ", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "HMRC", "Tax", "Business", "Money", "Politics", "Tax and spending", "UK news"], "title": "Tax avoidance: UK effort to collect from assets hidden in Switzerland fails"},{"date": "2013-09-06T20:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss hiking trails often lead you into and over colossal mountains, out of the tree line, up towards snowy peaks, but a newly created route in the spectacular Graub\u00fcnden region sticks close to the tumbling river Flem, travelling through sedate valleys and wooden ravines as well as Alpine pastures. In addition, seven impressive and elegant footbridges over the river have been created for a new architecture project, designed by Switzerland's pre-eminent bridge engineer, J\u00fcrg Conzett, making a walk along the new Trutg dil Flem Wasserweg (Water Way) a cultural as well as an active experience.For someone heavily involved in sustainable architecture, with a passion for the Graub\u00fcnden in particular, this was the perfect opportunity for some late summer hiking. After spending a night in Laax, I was dropped off by the local bus for hikers and set out from the isolated Sesgneshutte, where the Water Way's official beginning was marked by yellow signposts and red-and-white paint marks.Up on the plateau, grey and sandy rivulets spread across the fluvial bed, patterning the boggy land. Scree lay ahead, and \u2013 far away on the other side of the Upper Rhine valley \u2013 huge mountains.Above me was the foreboding, craggy spectacle of the 250-million-year-old saw-tooth Sardona peaks. Instead of reaching for these, the path descended towards some small upland Swiss firs.Among these was the first of Conzett's bridges, an oversized ovoid pebble over a deep, gurgling gorge. Crickets and the reassuring sound of Swiss cow bells tinkling away, not too far off, accompanied the downward pull, but these were soon drowned out by the roar of the water over rocks, while in the pasture iconic edelweiss, miniature buttercups and other Alpine flowers were still flowering in the early autumn. A short distance away was a second, timber, bridge, giving another view of the gulley waterfall.Further bridges appeared as I\u00a0continued, including a steel and concrete mushroom and, later, close to the end of the trail, the beautiful waterfall bridge.The walk was relatively short, as mountain hikes go: six hours of undemanding, family-friendly hiking to Flims. By then, the Alpine mountainscapes were firmly lodged in my mind, along with the bridges \u2013 delicate additions to\u00a0the pretty scenery.As the Water Way's founder, Guido Casto, later told me: \"We wanted to make a small intervention, but it must never be too much, otherwise you lose the spirit of the mountains.\"Guido, a local restaurateur who had been involved in other local architecture projects, had the idea for the bridges while hiking in 2009. Although the area's mountain path network was well developed, there were no trekking routes highlighting the river, nor paths through its wooded, ravine sections and hunters. So he took the idea to the town council, and after enrolling Conzett (and following many consultations and negotiations with landowners) the go-ahead was given, by the council at a cost of almost \u00a3500,000.Today, Graub\u00fcnden's architectural profile is gaining international recognition, which should help to encourage more holidaymakers to a region which is still unfamiliar to most British travellers.Despite being Switzerland's largest (though least populated) canton, the places that people are most familiar with in Graub\u00fcnden are the flashy ski resorts of Davos, Kloisters and St\u00a0Moritz. Elsewhere, the canton, located in the east of the country, is rich in Alpine beauty and the laid-back charm of simple lives.And even if there are no peaks to match the Matterhorn, Eiger or Jungfrau, destinations such as Disentis, Ilanz, Thusis or Zernez (gateway to the national park) deserve to be better-known. Likewise the canton's main hub town, Chur, which was once a Roman stop-off.After my walk, I visited other significant architecture projects in the area, including Vals Thermal Baths, by the Pritzker prize-winning architect Peter\u00a0Zumthor, and work by Gion\u00a0Caminada, a village architect who builds only in his tiny upland village of Vrin, attempting to stem the tide of rural decline there. As one local said: \"There won't be any ski lifts in Vrin as long as Caminada is around.\"Down in the valley town of Ilanz is the first rammed-earth- walled cinema in Switzerland, and indeed the world, designed by Gordian Blumenthal and Ramun Capaul, both of whom hail from the mountains.A growing network of modern Swiss Alpine Club mountain hostels add to this architecture-meets-the-wilds movement. From Vrin, a mountain walk on to the Greina, the high plateau and ancient highland pathway which begins a\u00a0few hours above the village, leads to them.Caminada's Terri\u00a0Hut can be reached in a day. Hikers can continue walking from there to Medelserhutte (+41 8\u00a01949 1403, medelserhuette.ch, rooms from \u00a353 half-board). Or from Disentis, further up the Surselva Upper Rhine valley, it's a\u00a0similar hike to the recently opened Alp Glivers hostel (+41 7 9220 4435, amarenda.ch, rooms from \u00a351 half-board), by Conrad Pally, an architect-carpenter.According to Guido, and others I met, summer/autumn tourism in the area is on the increase, aided by these projects, and by the creation of new paths \u2013 including a series of old mountain trails from the western Surselva valley, or the Via Mala, running from the north to Splugia in the south, which are historically part of the local Romanisch culture.For anyone wanting the exhilaration mountain walking brings, plus an intriguing cultural dimension, Graub\u00fcnden and its unique architectural culture is the place to head for.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com), which provided flights from London to Zurich, two nights' hotel accommodation and a four-day train pass. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a327.99 one way. Swiss railways (sbb.ch) runs a half-hour service from Zurich to Chur. From Chur there is an hourly service along the Surselva valley to Ilanz and Disentis, where you can change onto another local train over the Oberalpen pass to Andematt. The Glacier Express (glacierexpress.ch also travels this route, though it's more expensive. There is also the Bernina Express route myswitzerland.com, which runs into the Hinterrhein, through Thusis and near to the Via Mala route to St Moritz. More information on holidays in the area from en.graubuenden.chOliver Lowenstein runs the Fourth Door Review architecture magazine", "tags": ["Walking holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Architecture", "Art and design"], "title": "Switzerland: Graub\u00fcnden's walking trail of epic scenery and enduring art"},{"date": "2013-08-21T16:06:29Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A row between Italy and Switzerland over Italian bears that roam across Alpine borders is focusing on how the two nations define \"badly behaved\".The bust up over bear etiquette started with a curt statement issued this month by the Swiss canton of Graub\u00fcnden about bears wandering in from the Italian region of Trentino \u2013 where a bear repopulation scheme is under way \u2013 to forage for food, eat livestock and generally be a nuisance.\"These bears constitute an obstacle to the acceptance of this large predator by the local population,\" said the Swiss statement. \"The culling of problem bears needs to happen when they are young, in their own territory.\"Over in Italy, experts pointed out that weeding out \"problem\" bears in their youth would be difficult as would be agreeing with the Swiss on what constitutes misbehaviour.\"What horror!\" said Rosa Marino, an official with the Italian League for the Abolition of Hunting. \"Is this what is wrong with the world? A bear who wakes up hungry from hibernating, who tries to avoid meeting humans who have built on every centimetre of his territory and who eats what he can find for breakfast?\"The Swiss, who often look down their noses at what they consider the less than well-organised behaviour of Italian humans, have shown even less tolerance of unruly Italian bears, killing one specimen, known as M13, this year after it wandered into the town of Poschiavo.One Italian expert said it was time to seek a cross-border compromise on bear behaviour before more blood was spilt.\"To confront the issue of border crossings, it is indispensible that an accord is reached under which we can establish when a bear can be considered problematic,\" Luigi Boitani, a professor of zoology at the Sapienza in Rome, told La Repubblica.", "tags": ["Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Switzerland", "Wildlife", "Environment"], "title": "Italy and Switzerland in row over 'badly behaved' bears"},{"date": "2013-07-11T13:36:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "If Ipsa's recommendations go ahead, British MPs' incomes will rise to \u00a374,000 by 2015. But how do those salaries compare to those received by legislators elsewhere? Based on 2012 earnings, the annual basic salary of MPs in Westminster is considerably higher than that of representatives in devolved legislatures. Those who sit in the Scottish parliament earn \u00a357,520 a year while those in the Northern Ireland assembly earn a third less at just \u00a343,101.But looking beyond the British Isles, MPs may feel differently about their pay packets. Japanese legislators earn two and a half times what those in the UK do, and those in Australia earn almost double.The parliamentary authority only drew comparisons between other developed, mostly western countries in their October consultation. But that doesn't mean that representatives in the world's poorest countries receive small sums - far from it. Last month, Kenyan MPs finally bowed to pressure about a pay cut from $120,000 a year to $75,000 (as well as a one-off $59,000 grant to buy a vehicle). For many, the moral legitimacy of earnings is closely tied to national wealth. The average salary in Kenya is $1,700 a year (\u00a31,116), making public officials appear extremely divorced from the experiences of their electorate.So, to really give context to the MPs' earnings, indicators like GDP per capita are crucial. On this score, the UK edges up the list, with MPs earning 3.1x the average wealth per individual - a ratio similar to those found in Canada, Germany and Ireland.Although it doesn't take into account the cost of living in a country, some of these figures are quite striking. Japanese policymakers earn 6.6 times the national GDP per capita - in Italy, it's 9.3 times more.Do these figures suggest how fair our MPs' salaries are or is this an unfair basis of comparison? Share your views by posting a comment below.\u2022 DATA: download the full spreadsheet\u2022 Email us at data@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook\u2022 Post a comment belowData journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian", "tags": ["MPs' expenses", "UK news", "House of Commons"], "title": "MPs' pay: higher than Switzerland, lower than Norway"},{"date": "2013-07-05T13:18:17Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Treasury's attempt to tax wealthy individuals who hide their assets in Switzerland was declared an embarrassing failure by experts on Friday after the Swiss authorities said it would generate only a small fraction of the expected \u00a33.2bn haul.The Tax Justice Network campaign group said \"giant loopholes\" in the deal struck by the Treasury minister David Gauke and former HMRC chief David Hartnett had undermined the UK's attempt to trawl the Swiss banking system for untaxed funds.According to the Swiss Bankers Association (SBA), the deal does not apply to most UK nationals who keep their cash in Swiss banks because they are not domiciled in the UK.The SBA said the UK may get little more than a CHF500m (\u00a3347m) minimum levy agreed with the UK after individual banks found only small sums from UK citizens were caught by the deal.The Swiss declaration is not only embarrassing for the Treasury, it also This knocks a sizeable hole in public finances as the Office for National Statistics controversially included the \u00a33.2bn in May's public accounts.The levy contributed to a narrowing of government borrowing from \u00a315.6bn in May 2012 to \u00a312.7bn.According to the Treasury's red book, which forecasts tax revenues over the next five years, a one-off levy on Swiss assets owned by UK residents, ranging from 21% to 41%, was due to raise \u00a33.2bn in this tax year.A withholding tax on future gains and income of up to 43% was expected to rake in \u00a3610m in 2014-15 and \u00a3920m in the following year. Much of that income must now be in doubt, the Tax Justice Network said.Coming only a year after the government cut the top rate of tax from 50p to 45p, the campaign group said the deal was a huge giveaway to wealthy UK nationals able to hide their assets in tax havens.\"The Swiss withholding tax model is now dead. Dave Hartnett, David Gauke and the government that sanctioned this deal must now hang their heads in shame,\" it said.A spokesman for the SBA, which lobbies on behalf of all the major Swiss banks, said the deal was proceeding and it was too early to predict how much money would be declared to the Swiss and UK tax authorities, though it was already clear fewer untaxed assets than expected had come to light.\"This is mainly due to the fact that many clients have resident non-domiciled status. These clients are not liable to taxation in the UK and thus do not fall under the agreement,\" it said.The SBA said numerous UK clients had chosen to make voluntary disclosures to the tax authorities, which the association said was not surprising given Switzerland's announced adoption of a global standard for the automatic exchange of information.It is not clear how much the Treasury has received directly from UK citizens who opted to make a voluntary disclosure of their tax position, but tax experts said it was unlikely to make a material difference to the shortfall.But a Treasury spokeswoman said there was no reason to revise the estimated revenue from the deal.She said: \"As the SBA has said, more people have chosen to disclose their tax affairs to HMRC than expected so the yield from this route is likely to be higher than anticipated.\" ", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "Switzerland", "HMRC", "Tax", "Business", "Money", "Politics", "Tax and spending", "UK news"], "title": "Tax avoidance: UK effort to collect from assets hidden in Switzerland fails"},{"date": "2013-07-12T17:54:13Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "A jailed prelate's accounts at the Vatican bank have been frozen as part of an investigation into his financial dealings, the Pope's spokesman revealed .Father Federico Lombardi said the Promoter of Justice \u2013 an official similar to a chief prosecutor \u2013 had ordered the freezing of two accounts belonging to Monsignor Nunzio Scarano. The monsignor is accused by the Italian authorities of being the central figure in a bizarre plot to smuggle \u20ac20m (\u00a317m) into Italy from Switzerland.The case has embarrassed the Vatican as it struggles to convince international watchdogs that its financial institutions have adequate safeguards against money-laundering. The Promoter of Justice's move showed the Vatican was taking an active role in the affair.But Lombardi said that it took effect on 9 July, and it was not immediately clear why the Vatican authorities had waited 10 days after Scarano's arrest before blocking his accounts.The monsignor, who was a banker before he became a priest, is a senior official of the Vatican's asset management arm, the Administration of the Patrimony of the Holy See (APSA). It is claimed that he conspired with an Italian secret service officer and a financial intermediary to repatriate the cash aboard a private jet.In a statement to prosecutors this week, leaked to Italian media, Scarano was quoted as saying he stood to receive \u20ac2.5m for his part in the operation. He planned to spend \u20ac1m building a church in Umbria, but intended keeping the rest, at least temporarily.He was said to have told prosecutors he regarded the remaining \u20ac1.5m as a loan \"that would have enabled me to resolve certain financial problems\" arising from a defunct business enterprise with a relative. Prosecutors are reported to have estimated that Scarano's personal assets were worth around \u20ac500,000.The prelate reportedly acknowledged that a family of Neapolitan ship owners had made monthly transfers, registered as charitable donations, to an account he held at the Vatican bank. The Italian prosecutors believe the money that was to have been brought in from Switzerland belonged to three members of the family, all brothers. Two have denied the money is theirs. The third has said nothing.Among other unresolved aspects of the case are the amount and whereabouts of the cash. Scarano was said to have put the total at \u20ac41m, which had since been transferred to Beirut.Though awkward in many respects, the Scarano affair has strengthened Pope Francis's hand as he sets about cleaning up the Vatican bank, formally known as the Institute for the Works of Religion (IOR). The prelate was arrested two days after Francis set up a commission to brief him on the IOR's activities and suggest reforms.The pope himself took part in the commission's first meeting, which was held this week at the guest house in the Vatican where he has opted to live. Scandals shown or alleged to have involved the Vatican's financiers have been embarrassing successive popes since 1982 when Roberto Calvi, a banker with close ties to the IOR, was found hanged beneath Blackfriars Bridge in London.The circumstances of his death remain a mystery.Equally unclear are the reasons for the disappearance the following year of Emanuela Orlandi, the daughter of a Vatican employee. Prosecutors in Rome are currently taking statements from Marco Fassoni Accetti, a colourful figure with a strong resemblance to the comedian Roberto Benigni.Fassoni Accetti claims to have helped kidnap the girl as part of a conspiracy to thwart the anti-communist activities of Pope John Paul II. In the latest of his increasingly controversial statements, he has made allegations about the names of his fellow-conspirators including discrediting the then head of the IOR, Archbishop Paul Marcinkus.", "tags": ["Vatican", "Pope Francis", "Italy", "Europe", "World news", "Catholicism", "The papacy"], "title": "Vatican freezes prelate's bank accounts over smuggling claims"},{"date": "2013-11-24T18:53:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss voters on Sunday decisively rejected a proposal to cap \"fat cat\" pay, in a ground-breaking referendum on the issue.Final results showed that votes against carried the day by 65.3% to 34.7% in favour. David Roth, the president of Switzerland's Young Socialists and the referendum's leading sponsor, said: \"We're disappointed [we] lost today.\"His proposal would have meant executives would have been unable to earn more in a month than their lowest-paid workers in a year. The so-called 1:12 referendum was the second ballot this year in traditionally conservative and business-friendly Switzerland on the subject of executive remuneration.In March, voters approved a measure that boosted shareholders' power over managerial salaries and banned one-off bonuses \u2013 so-called \"golden hellos\" and \"golden goodbyes\".Roth blamed Sunday's defeat on \"scare tactics\" by his opponents. Employers had mounted a vigorous counterattack, claiming approval of the initiative would undermine Switzerland's competitiveness, slash tax revenues and breach a taboo on giving the state a role in relations between employers and employees.Christian Keuschnigg, professor of public economics at the university of St Gallen, said a study he had carried out for the employers found the cost to the state would have ranged from \"close to zero to as much as Sfr4bn [\u00a32.7bn]\", depending on the reaction of business. The proponents of the scheme, backed by the Socialists and Greens, argued that the savings in top executive pay would be redistributed among the lower paid.But, said Keuschnigg, companies might have increased their dividends or relocated to other countries. \"Multinational corporations could easily switch their headquarters elsewhere,\" he told the Guardian. \"That danger in our view was quite real.\"Both the government and parliament had called for a \"no\" vote.Claude Longchamp, head of the polling group gfs.bern, said that, unlike the sponsors of the March referendum, \"the Young Socialists were unable to convince older voters\".Deborah Warburton, a partner in London-based executive search firm Hedley May, highlighted the radicalism of what voters had been asked to endorse.\"The Swiss proposal was much stricter even than the 20 times ratio that the TUC is calling for in the UK, so it's perhaps not surprising that it was rejected,\" she said. \"Even though it was a 'no' vote, the question of how to make executive pay fairer is still very much a live issue, with the UK having implemented a law giving shareholders a binding vote on executive pay only last month, France and Germany also considering such measures, and the EU working on potential draft legislation to give shareholders voting rights over executive pay.\"Nor will Sunday's verdict dispel concerns over pay imbalances in Switzerland. A separate initiative by the trade unions, aimed at the introduction of a minimum wage, is expected to go to a national vote next year.Roth said: \"Our fight will continue against 'fat cat' salaries and an unfair pay system. This system has no future. We succeeded in mobilising many people and launching a broad debate.\"The issue leapt into the headlines earlier this year after the Swiss drug group Novartis agreed to pay its outgoing chairman Daniel Vasella SFr72m (\u00a349m). The payment, which the firm scrapped, was aimed at preventing Vasella from using his knowledge to help rival pharmaceutical firms.The young Socialists claimed during the 1:12 campaign that the ratio of the average salary among Swiss CEOs to the average wage had leapt from six to one in 1984 to 43 to one in 2011. Calculations based on figures compiled by the trade union Travailsuisse indicate that the biggest pay imbalance is at another drug company, Roche, where the salary of the best-paid executive is 236 times that of the lowest-paid worker.Other firms where the ratio was in excess of 200 to one were ABB, Novartis and Credit Suisse. They were followed by Nestl\u00e9, UBS and Lindt & Sprungli.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland votes against cap on executive pay"},{"date": "2013-11-24T18:53:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss voters on Sunday decisively rejected a proposal to cap \"fat cat\" pay, in a ground-breaking referendum on the issue.Final results showed that votes against carried the day by 65.3% to 34.7% in favour. David Roth, the president of Switzerland's Young Socialists and the referendum's leading sponsor, said: \"We're disappointed [we] lost today.\"His proposal would have meant executives would have been unable to earn more in a month than their lowest-paid workers in a year. The so-called 1:12 referendum was the second ballot this year in traditionally conservative and business-friendly Switzerland on the subject of executive remuneration.In March, voters approved a measure that boosted shareholders' power over managerial salaries and banned one-off bonuses \u2013 so-called \"golden hellos\" and \"golden goodbyes\".Roth blamed Sunday's defeat on \"scare tactics\" by his opponents. Employers had mounted a vigorous counterattack, claiming approval of the initiative would undermine Switzerland's competitiveness, slash tax revenues and breach a taboo on giving the state a role in relations between employers and employees.Christian Keuschnigg, professor of public economics at the university of St Gallen, said a study he had carried out for the employers found the cost to the state would have ranged from \"close to zero to as much as Sfr4bn [\u00a32.7bn]\", depending on the reaction of business. The proponents of the scheme, backed by the Socialists and Greens, argued that the savings in top executive pay would be redistributed among the lower paid.But, said Keuschnigg, companies might have increased their dividends or relocated to other countries. \"Multinational corporations could easily switch their headquarters elsewhere,\" he told the Guardian. \"That danger in our view was quite real.\"Both the government and parliament had called for a \"no\" vote.Claude Longchamp, head of the polling group gfs.bern, said that, unlike the sponsors of the March referendum, \"the Young Socialists were unable to convince older voters\".Deborah Warburton, a partner in London-based executive search firm Hedley May, highlighted the radicalism of what voters had been asked to endorse.\"The Swiss proposal was much stricter even than the 20 times ratio that the TUC is calling for in the UK, so it's perhaps not surprising that it was rejected,\" she said. \"Even though it was a 'no' vote, the question of how to make executive pay fairer is still very much a live issue, with the UK having implemented a law giving shareholders a binding vote on executive pay only last month, France and Germany also considering such measures, and the EU working on potential draft legislation to give shareholders voting rights over executive pay.\"Nor will Sunday's verdict dispel concerns over pay imbalances in Switzerland. A separate initiative by the trade unions, aimed at the introduction of a minimum wage, is expected to go to a national vote next year.Roth said: \"Our fight will continue against 'fat cat' salaries and an unfair pay system. This system has no future. We succeeded in mobilising many people and launching a broad debate.\"The issue leapt into the headlines earlier this year after the Swiss drug group Novartis agreed to pay its outgoing chairman Daniel Vasella SFr72m (\u00a349m). The payment, which the firm scrapped, was aimed at preventing Vasella from using his knowledge to help rival pharmaceutical firms.The young Socialists claimed during the 1:12 campaign that the ratio of the average salary among Swiss CEOs to the average wage had leapt from six to one in 1984 to 43 to one in 2011. Calculations based on figures compiled by the trade union Travailsuisse indicate that the biggest pay imbalance is at another drug company, Roche, where the salary of the best-paid executive is 236 times that of the lowest-paid worker.Other firms where the ratio was in excess of 200 to one were ABB, Novartis and Credit Suisse. They were followed by Nestl\u00e9, UBS and Lindt & Sprungli.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland votes against cap on executive pay"},{"date": "2013-12-27T23:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": " A series of avalanches in the Alps on Friday left five people dead, including a young Irishman, and several other skiers seriously injured, according to mountain rescue teams.Off-piste skiers have been warned there may be further avalanches this weekend.Seven skiers were swept away when avalanches hit the popular resorts of Val-Thorens, Courchevel, La Clusaz and Serre-Chevalier.One man, reportedly a French mountain worker, aged 50, died in Courchevel. He was trying to reach a mountain hostel with his son, when the pair were \"surprised by an avalanche\", rescue services said. The son was saved, but his father\u00a0died.In Serre-Chevalier, a skier, described as between 15 and 20 years of age, died in hospital after being buried in snow after an avalanche reportedly under the ski lifts.Two people were reported to be in a serious condition in La Clusaz after their group of six skiers and snowboarders, descending outside the marked runs despite warnings and advice for skiers to remain on the pistes, triggered an avalanche at an altitude of 2,200 metres. The snowfall hit the lower reaches of a black slope, where mountain rescue teams said they had no reports of victims but were searching the snowfall. French authorities also announced the death of an 18-year-old after an avalanche in La Plagne.At Val-Thorens, seven off-piste skiers set off an avalanche and had to be rescued by the emergency services.In Switzerland, where heavy snow has fallen for the past two days, two skiers were declared dead in separate incidents, one in St Moritz. Rescuers said they were unable to reach the second victim, said to be a 27-year-old Irishman, living in Zurich, swept away by an avalanche in the Uri region south of Realp, because of weather conditions.Ski authorities throughout the Alps said it was imperative that skiers kept to the marked slopes.Friday's deaths were the latest in a grim series of fatal avalanches to have hit the Alps in the past few days. On Thursday, a French skier, aged 24, from Annecy, died in the Italian Alps above Turin. On Wednesday, a 27-year-old Spanish skier was killed by an avalanche in Andorra. None of the victims have been named.", "tags": ["Avalanches", "France", "Switzerland", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alps avalanches causes deaths in France and Switzerland"},{"date": "2013-11-24T18:53:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss voters on Sunday decisively rejected a proposal to cap \"fat cat\" pay, in a ground-breaking referendum on the issue.Final results showed that votes against carried the day by 65.3% to 34.7% in favour. David Roth, the president of Switzerland's Young Socialists and the referendum's leading sponsor, said: \"We're disappointed [we] lost today.\"His proposal would have meant executives would have been unable to earn more in a month than their lowest-paid workers in a year. The so-called 1:12 referendum was the second ballot this year in traditionally conservative and business-friendly Switzerland on the subject of executive remuneration.In March, voters approved a measure that boosted shareholders' power over managerial salaries and banned one-off bonuses \u2013 so-called \"golden hellos\" and \"golden goodbyes\".Roth blamed Sunday's defeat on \"scare tactics\" by his opponents. Employers had mounted a vigorous counterattack, claiming approval of the initiative would undermine Switzerland's competitiveness, slash tax revenues and breach a taboo on giving the state a role in relations between employers and employees.Christian Keuschnigg, professor of public economics at the university of St Gallen, said a study he had carried out for the employers found the cost to the state would have ranged from \"close to zero to as much as Sfr4bn [\u00a32.7bn]\", depending on the reaction of business. The proponents of the scheme, backed by the Socialists and Greens, argued that the savings in top executive pay would be redistributed among the lower paid.But, said Keuschnigg, companies might have increased their dividends or relocated to other countries. \"Multinational corporations could easily switch their headquarters elsewhere,\" he told the Guardian. \"That danger in our view was quite real.\"Both the government and parliament had called for a \"no\" vote.Claude Longchamp, head of the polling group gfs.bern, said that, unlike the sponsors of the March referendum, \"the Young Socialists were unable to convince older voters\".Deborah Warburton, a partner in London-based executive search firm Hedley May, highlighted the radicalism of what voters had been asked to endorse.\"The Swiss proposal was much stricter even than the 20 times ratio that the TUC is calling for in the UK, so it's perhaps not surprising that it was rejected,\" she said. \"Even though it was a 'no' vote, the question of how to make executive pay fairer is still very much a live issue, with the UK having implemented a law giving shareholders a binding vote on executive pay only last month, France and Germany also considering such measures, and the EU working on potential draft legislation to give shareholders voting rights over executive pay.\"Nor will Sunday's verdict dispel concerns over pay imbalances in Switzerland. A separate initiative by the trade unions, aimed at the introduction of a minimum wage, is expected to go to a national vote next year.Roth said: \"Our fight will continue against 'fat cat' salaries and an unfair pay system. This system has no future. We succeeded in mobilising many people and launching a broad debate.\"The issue leapt into the headlines earlier this year after the Swiss drug group Novartis agreed to pay its outgoing chairman Daniel Vasella SFr72m (\u00a349m). The payment, which the firm scrapped, was aimed at preventing Vasella from using his knowledge to help rival pharmaceutical firms.The young Socialists claimed during the 1:12 campaign that the ratio of the average salary among Swiss CEOs to the average wage had leapt from six to one in 1984 to 43 to one in 2011. Calculations based on figures compiled by the trade union Travailsuisse indicate that the biggest pay imbalance is at another drug company, Roche, where the salary of the best-paid executive is 236 times that of the lowest-paid worker.Other firms where the ratio was in excess of 200 to one were ABB, Novartis and Credit Suisse. They were followed by Nestl\u00e9, UBS and Lindt & Sprungli.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland votes against cap on executive pay"},{"date": "2013-12-27T23:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": " A series of avalanches in the Alps on Friday left five people dead, including a young Irishman, and several other skiers seriously injured, according to mountain rescue teams.Off-piste skiers have been warned there may be further avalanches this weekend.Seven skiers were swept away when avalanches hit the popular resorts of Val-Thorens, Courchevel, La Clusaz and Serre-Chevalier.One man, reportedly a French mountain worker, aged 50, died in Courchevel. He was trying to reach a mountain hostel with his son, when the pair were \"surprised by an avalanche\", rescue services said. The son was saved, but his father\u00a0died.In Serre-Chevalier, a skier, described as between 15 and 20 years of age, died in hospital after being buried in snow after an avalanche reportedly under the ski lifts.Two people were reported to be in a serious condition in La Clusaz after their group of six skiers and snowboarders, descending outside the marked runs despite warnings and advice for skiers to remain on the pistes, triggered an avalanche at an altitude of 2,200 metres. The snowfall hit the lower reaches of a black slope, where mountain rescue teams said they had no reports of victims but were searching the snowfall. French authorities also announced the death of an 18-year-old after an avalanche in La Plagne.At Val-Thorens, seven off-piste skiers set off an avalanche and had to be rescued by the emergency services.In Switzerland, where heavy snow has fallen for the past two days, two skiers were declared dead in separate incidents, one in St Moritz. Rescuers said they were unable to reach the second victim, said to be a 27-year-old Irishman, living in Zurich, swept away by an avalanche in the Uri region south of Realp, because of weather conditions.Ski authorities throughout the Alps said it was imperative that skiers kept to the marked slopes.Friday's deaths were the latest in a grim series of fatal avalanches to have hit the Alps in the past few days. On Thursday, a French skier, aged 24, from Annecy, died in the Italian Alps above Turin. On Wednesday, a 27-year-old Spanish skier was killed by an avalanche in Andorra. None of the victims have been named.", "tags": ["Avalanches", "France", "Switzerland", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alps avalanches causes deaths in France and Switzerland"},{"date": "2013-12-15T06:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tucked into a natural basin in the sunniest corner of the Lower Engadine, the spa town of Scuol \u2013 a cluster of traditional houses decorated with sgraffito \u2013 is skirted by dazzling 3,000m peaks and overlooks the Swiss national park. The charming Bun di Scuol bed and breakfast is a traditional Engadiner property with five double rooms close to the ski bus stop. As well as serving breakfasts of homemade apple cake, hosts Leah and Michael let guests use the kitchen to self-cater free of charge.This winter, ski passes are included in the price of the room. The snow-sure Motta-Naluns ski area (up\u00a0to 2,800m above sea level) has\u00a0a\u00a0collection of easy and intermediate runs, including a\u00a0delightful 7.4-mile red down to Scuol. Treat yourself by relaxing in the thermal waters at the Bogn Engiadina Scuol spa\u00a0\u2013 which offers reduced rates of CHF18.50 (\u00a313) after 7.30pm \u2013 or by dining while gazing at charcoal-coloured summits at Pizzeria Taverna (meal for two around \u00a342, including drinks, +41 81 864 0147).The outlay: Bun di Scuol (+41 81 860 09 19, bundi-scuol.ch) costs from \u00a368 a night including ski passes. Ski hire at Sport Heinrich (sport-heinrich.ch) costs around \u00a368 for five days. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Zurich main station to Scuol-Tarasp by train costs from \u00a344 return with an SBB (sbb.ch) supersaver ticket.Total approximate cost per person for five nights: \u00a3427 (B&B)There is a thrill in making the first tracks on untouched pistes \u2013 not to mention the awe of spending the night\u00a0high on a\u00a0mountain with only the\u00a0moon for company. High above Laax (which, along with Flims and Falera, makes up the largest winter resort in Graub\u00fcnden canton), the functional, 132-bed Mountain Hostel Crap Sogn Gion is just off the mountain station \u2013 and the pistes \u2013 at 2,228m above sea level.Lift passes are included with each overnight stay, making for relatively affordable access to the 146 miles of blue, red, black and unprepared slopes, and four snow parks \u2013 one of which is home to Europe's largest half-pipe. After dark, guests can use the hostel's sauna (free), or share stories of huge airs and wipeouts while gathered around the open fire in the hostel's Capalari bar, where beers cost around \u00a33.40.The outlay: Mountain Hostel (mountain-hostel.ch) costs from \u00a3300pp for five nights half-board, including a six-day lift pass and sauna access. Ski or snowboard hire at any of the valley stations costs from \u00a3111 for six days (laax.com). Expect to pay around \u00a312 for lunch with a drink at the self-service restaurant. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton\u00a0to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Zurich main station to Laax Bergbahnen by train costs \u00a375 return (sbb.ch)Total approximate cost per person for five nights: \u00a3652 (half-board)The journey to Pontresina is as spectacular as the arrival: the famous red trains of the Rhaetian Railway glide across mountain passes and viaducts, skirting St Moritz, to Pontresina. The resort, a\u00a0collection of glitzy hotels and high-end boutiques, is the last place you\u00a0would expect to find a youth hostel. But, just as the glamorous village has a curious reputation as a\u00a0centre for outdoor pursuits, nothing here is as it seems.Pontresina Youth Hostel's Cross Country Skiing Hit package is an antidote to the glamour and expense of the area. Four cross-country ski tours for beginners are included with six nights half-board in the hostel, which serves four-course dinners every night. The hostel is steps\u00a0from the 130 miles of cross-country ski tracks that stretch through\u00a0the Upper Engadine, passing beneath the Roseg Glaciercorrect and crossing frozen lakes.The outlay: Pontresina Youth Hostel's (youthhostel.ch/de/hostels/pontresina) Cross Country Skiing Hit costs \u00a3303, including membership, for six nights half-board in a six-bed room (also bookable as a group), with four beginners' cross-country ski tours. Cross-country ski hire in the youth hostel's basement shop (pontresina-sports.ch) costs \u00a389 for four days. The youth hostel will provide packed lunches for \u00a36 a day. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Return train tickets from Zurich main station to Pontresina cost from \u00a349 with an SBB (sbb.ch) supersaver ticket.Total approximate cost per person for six nights: \u00a3540 (half-board)  The Gruy\u00e8re district, between Lausanne and Berne, is most famous for its eponymous cheese, but it also has an array of family-friendly winter resorts.\u00a0And because this region of jagged pre-Alpine summits is off the beaten track, it is uncongested, with accordingly low prices. Mol\u00e9son is at the heart of it, beneath the 2,002m peak of the same name, and has views of Lake Geneva and Mont Blanc.The resort's 18.6\u00a0miles of pistes encompass a beginners' slope, several blue and red runs, and a black run from the summit of Le Mol\u00e9son. There are also two snowshoe trails, a\u00a0two-and-a-half- mile sledge run and a snow\u00a0park. Stay in a self-catering apartment with the Alpine Winter Adventure package and enjoy free access to it all, leaving you budget to\u00a0sample the region's renowned cheese fondue, followed by\u00a0meringues and double cream \u2013 Canton Fribourg's \"afternoon tea\" \u2013 at Plan Francey, a\u00a0chalet-style restaurant on the slopes\u00a0(fondue from \u00a316 and meringues \u00a36 each).The outlay: An Alpine Winter Adventure (moleson.ch) costs from \u00a3447 for two adults and two children for seven nights in an apartment, including six-day lift passes\u00a0and free access to the sledge run. Ski hire costs from \u00a385 for adults and \u00a351 for children for six days from Castella Sports SA (+41 26 921 33 49); sledges, rentable at the funicular, cost \u00a37 each. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Geneva from \u00a360 return. Mol\u00e9son is 1.5\u00a0hours from Geneva; car hire costs from \u00a3176 a week (genevaairportcarhire.net)Total approximate cost per family for seven nights: \u00a31,135 (self-catering)The Portes du Soleil ski area is one of the largest in Switzerland, comprising 12 linked Swiss and French resorts and occupying a 154-square-mile wedge of the mountainous Rh\u00f4ne valley region. A\u00a0good base is Champ\u00e9ry, a traditional village with some 150 years' experience\u00a0in welcoming tourists at the foot of the multi-summited Dents\u00a0du Midi. The skiing is low-lying (up to 2,400m above sea level) but it is varied, with 296\u00a0slopes and 194\u00a0mountain lifts \u2013 so you'll find it helps to have a guide to help you find\u00a0the best powder.Think that sounds expensive? Well, this winter, ski hostel Le Petit Baroudeur, with self-catering facilities and close to the Croix du Culet cable car in Champ\u00e9ry, has put together a budget Ski Safari package, including a ski pass for the region and a guide from the Swiss Ski School for three days, as well\u00a0as a ticket to the warm-water pools at Thermes-Parc, which would normally cost from \u00a315.The outlay: A Ski Safari stay at Le Petit Baroudeur (champery.ch), including four nights' bed and breakfast and three days' skiing with a guide, costs \u00a3282pp, based on a group of between seven and 10 people. Ski hire costs from \u00a392 for three days at Berra Sports (+41 24 479 1390, berra-sports.com), with up to 20% discount if booked in advance. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Geneva from \u00a360 return. Return train tickets from Geneva to Champ\u00e9ry cost from \u00a331 return (sbb.ch)Total approximate cost per person for four nights: \u00a3494 (B&B)Prices based on exchange rates at time of going to press and subject to change", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski on a budget \u2026 in Switzerland? Yes you can, and here's how"},{"date": "2013-11-24T18:53:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss voters on Sunday decisively rejected a proposal to cap \"fat cat\" pay, in a ground-breaking referendum on the issue.Final results showed that votes against carried the day by 65.3% to 34.7% in favour. David Roth, the president of Switzerland's Young Socialists and the referendum's leading sponsor, said: \"We're disappointed [we] lost today.\"His proposal would have meant executives would have been unable to earn more in a month than their lowest-paid workers in a year. The so-called 1:12 referendum was the second ballot this year in traditionally conservative and business-friendly Switzerland on the subject of executive remuneration.In March, voters approved a measure that boosted shareholders' power over managerial salaries and banned one-off bonuses \u2013 so-called \"golden hellos\" and \"golden goodbyes\".Roth blamed Sunday's defeat on \"scare tactics\" by his opponents. Employers had mounted a vigorous counterattack, claiming approval of the initiative would undermine Switzerland's competitiveness, slash tax revenues and breach a taboo on giving the state a role in relations between employers and employees.Christian Keuschnigg, professor of public economics at the university of St Gallen, said a study he had carried out for the employers found the cost to the state would have ranged from \"close to zero to as much as Sfr4bn [\u00a32.7bn]\", depending on the reaction of business. The proponents of the scheme, backed by the Socialists and Greens, argued that the savings in top executive pay would be redistributed among the lower paid.But, said Keuschnigg, companies might have increased their dividends or relocated to other countries. \"Multinational corporations could easily switch their headquarters elsewhere,\" he told the Guardian. \"That danger in our view was quite real.\"Both the government and parliament had called for a \"no\" vote.Claude Longchamp, head of the polling group gfs.bern, said that, unlike the sponsors of the March referendum, \"the Young Socialists were unable to convince older voters\".Deborah Warburton, a partner in London-based executive search firm Hedley May, highlighted the radicalism of what voters had been asked to endorse.\"The Swiss proposal was much stricter even than the 20 times ratio that the TUC is calling for in the UK, so it's perhaps not surprising that it was rejected,\" she said. \"Even though it was a 'no' vote, the question of how to make executive pay fairer is still very much a live issue, with the UK having implemented a law giving shareholders a binding vote on executive pay only last month, France and Germany also considering such measures, and the EU working on potential draft legislation to give shareholders voting rights over executive pay.\"Nor will Sunday's verdict dispel concerns over pay imbalances in Switzerland. A separate initiative by the trade unions, aimed at the introduction of a minimum wage, is expected to go to a national vote next year.Roth said: \"Our fight will continue against 'fat cat' salaries and an unfair pay system. This system has no future. We succeeded in mobilising many people and launching a broad debate.\"The issue leapt into the headlines earlier this year after the Swiss drug group Novartis agreed to pay its outgoing chairman Daniel Vasella SFr72m (\u00a349m). The payment, which the firm scrapped, was aimed at preventing Vasella from using his knowledge to help rival pharmaceutical firms.The young Socialists claimed during the 1:12 campaign that the ratio of the average salary among Swiss CEOs to the average wage had leapt from six to one in 1984 to 43 to one in 2011. Calculations based on figures compiled by the trade union Travailsuisse indicate that the biggest pay imbalance is at another drug company, Roche, where the salary of the best-paid executive is 236 times that of the lowest-paid worker.Other firms where the ratio was in excess of 200 to one were ABB, Novartis and Credit Suisse. They were followed by Nestl\u00e9, UBS and Lindt & Sprungli.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland votes against cap on executive pay"},{"date": "2013-12-27T23:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": " A series of avalanches in the Alps on Friday left five people dead, including a young Irishman, and several other skiers seriously injured, according to mountain rescue teams.Off-piste skiers have been warned there may be further avalanches this weekend.Seven skiers were swept away when avalanches hit the popular resorts of Val-Thorens, Courchevel, La Clusaz and Serre-Chevalier.One man, reportedly a French mountain worker, aged 50, died in Courchevel. He was trying to reach a mountain hostel with his son, when the pair were \"surprised by an avalanche\", rescue services said. The son was saved, but his father\u00a0died.In Serre-Chevalier, a skier, described as between 15 and 20 years of age, died in hospital after being buried in snow after an avalanche reportedly under the ski lifts.Two people were reported to be in a serious condition in La Clusaz after their group of six skiers and snowboarders, descending outside the marked runs despite warnings and advice for skiers to remain on the pistes, triggered an avalanche at an altitude of 2,200 metres. The snowfall hit the lower reaches of a black slope, where mountain rescue teams said they had no reports of victims but were searching the snowfall. French authorities also announced the death of an 18-year-old after an avalanche in La Plagne.At Val-Thorens, seven off-piste skiers set off an avalanche and had to be rescued by the emergency services.In Switzerland, where heavy snow has fallen for the past two days, two skiers were declared dead in separate incidents, one in St Moritz. Rescuers said they were unable to reach the second victim, said to be a 27-year-old Irishman, living in Zurich, swept away by an avalanche in the Uri region south of Realp, because of weather conditions.Ski authorities throughout the Alps said it was imperative that skiers kept to the marked slopes.Friday's deaths were the latest in a grim series of fatal avalanches to have hit the Alps in the past few days. On Thursday, a French skier, aged 24, from Annecy, died in the Italian Alps above Turin. On Wednesday, a 27-year-old Spanish skier was killed by an avalanche in Andorra. None of the victims have been named.", "tags": ["Avalanches", "France", "Switzerland", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alps avalanches causes deaths in France and Switzerland"},{"date": "2013-12-15T06:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tucked into a natural basin in the sunniest corner of the Lower Engadine, the spa town of Scuol \u2013 a cluster of traditional houses decorated with sgraffito \u2013 is skirted by dazzling 3,000m peaks and overlooks the Swiss national park. The charming Bun di Scuol bed and breakfast is a traditional Engadiner property with five double rooms close to the ski bus stop. As well as serving breakfasts of homemade apple cake, hosts Leah and Michael let guests use the kitchen to self-cater free of charge.This winter, ski passes are included in the price of the room. The snow-sure Motta-Naluns ski area (up\u00a0to 2,800m above sea level) has\u00a0a\u00a0collection of easy and intermediate runs, including a\u00a0delightful 7.4-mile red down to Scuol. Treat yourself by relaxing in the thermal waters at the Bogn Engiadina Scuol spa\u00a0\u2013 which offers reduced rates of CHF18.50 (\u00a313) after 7.30pm \u2013 or by dining while gazing at charcoal-coloured summits at Pizzeria Taverna (meal for two around \u00a342, including drinks, +41 81 864 0147).The outlay: Bun di Scuol (+41 81 860 09 19, bundi-scuol.ch) costs from \u00a368 a night including ski passes. Ski hire at Sport Heinrich (sport-heinrich.ch) costs around \u00a368 for five days. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Zurich main station to Scuol-Tarasp by train costs from \u00a344 return with an SBB (sbb.ch) supersaver ticket.Total approximate cost per person for five nights: \u00a3427 (B&B)There is a thrill in making the first tracks on untouched pistes \u2013 not to mention the awe of spending the night\u00a0high on a\u00a0mountain with only the\u00a0moon for company. High above Laax (which, along with Flims and Falera, makes up the largest winter resort in Graub\u00fcnden canton), the functional, 132-bed Mountain Hostel Crap Sogn Gion is just off the mountain station \u2013 and the pistes \u2013 at 2,228m above sea level.Lift passes are included with each overnight stay, making for relatively affordable access to the 146 miles of blue, red, black and unprepared slopes, and four snow parks \u2013 one of which is home to Europe's largest half-pipe. After dark, guests can use the hostel's sauna (free), or share stories of huge airs and wipeouts while gathered around the open fire in the hostel's Capalari bar, where beers cost around \u00a33.40.The outlay: Mountain Hostel (mountain-hostel.ch) costs from \u00a3300pp for five nights half-board, including a six-day lift pass and sauna access. Ski or snowboard hire at any of the valley stations costs from \u00a3111 for six days (laax.com). Expect to pay around \u00a312 for lunch with a drink at the self-service restaurant. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton\u00a0to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Zurich main station to Laax Bergbahnen by train costs \u00a375 return (sbb.ch)Total approximate cost per person for five nights: \u00a3652 (half-board)The journey to Pontresina is as spectacular as the arrival: the famous red trains of the Rhaetian Railway glide across mountain passes and viaducts, skirting St Moritz, to Pontresina. The resort, a\u00a0collection of glitzy hotels and high-end boutiques, is the last place you\u00a0would expect to find a youth hostel. But, just as the glamorous village has a curious reputation as a\u00a0centre for outdoor pursuits, nothing here is as it seems.Pontresina Youth Hostel's Cross Country Skiing Hit package is an antidote to the glamour and expense of the area. Four cross-country ski tours for beginners are included with six nights half-board in the hostel, which serves four-course dinners every night. The hostel is steps\u00a0from the 130 miles of cross-country ski tracks that stretch through\u00a0the Upper Engadine, passing beneath the Roseg Glaciercorrect and crossing frozen lakes.The outlay: Pontresina Youth Hostel's (youthhostel.ch/de/hostels/pontresina) Cross Country Skiing Hit costs \u00a3303, including membership, for six nights half-board in a six-bed room (also bookable as a group), with four beginners' cross-country ski tours. Cross-country ski hire in the youth hostel's basement shop (pontresina-sports.ch) costs \u00a389 for four days. The youth hostel will provide packed lunches for \u00a36 a day. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Return train tickets from Zurich main station to Pontresina cost from \u00a349 with an SBB (sbb.ch) supersaver ticket.Total approximate cost per person for six nights: \u00a3540 (half-board)  The Gruy\u00e8re district, between Lausanne and Berne, is most famous for its eponymous cheese, but it also has an array of family-friendly winter resorts.\u00a0And because this region of jagged pre-Alpine summits is off the beaten track, it is uncongested, with accordingly low prices. Mol\u00e9son is at the heart of it, beneath the 2,002m peak of the same name, and has views of Lake Geneva and Mont Blanc.The resort's 18.6\u00a0miles of pistes encompass a beginners' slope, several blue and red runs, and a black run from the summit of Le Mol\u00e9son. There are also two snowshoe trails, a\u00a0two-and-a-half- mile sledge run and a snow\u00a0park. Stay in a self-catering apartment with the Alpine Winter Adventure package and enjoy free access to it all, leaving you budget to\u00a0sample the region's renowned cheese fondue, followed by\u00a0meringues and double cream \u2013 Canton Fribourg's \"afternoon tea\" \u2013 at Plan Francey, a\u00a0chalet-style restaurant on the slopes\u00a0(fondue from \u00a316 and meringues \u00a36 each).The outlay: An Alpine Winter Adventure (moleson.ch) costs from \u00a3447 for two adults and two children for seven nights in an apartment, including six-day lift passes\u00a0and free access to the sledge run. Ski hire costs from \u00a385 for adults and \u00a351 for children for six days from Castella Sports SA (+41 26 921 33 49); sledges, rentable at the funicular, cost \u00a37 each. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Geneva from \u00a360 return. Mol\u00e9son is 1.5\u00a0hours from Geneva; car hire costs from \u00a3176 a week (genevaairportcarhire.net)Total approximate cost per family for seven nights: \u00a31,135 (self-catering)The Portes du Soleil ski area is one of the largest in Switzerland, comprising 12 linked Swiss and French resorts and occupying a 154-square-mile wedge of the mountainous Rh\u00f4ne valley region. A\u00a0good base is Champ\u00e9ry, a traditional village with some 150 years' experience\u00a0in welcoming tourists at the foot of the multi-summited Dents\u00a0du Midi. The skiing is low-lying (up to 2,400m above sea level) but it is varied, with 296\u00a0slopes and 194\u00a0mountain lifts \u2013 so you'll find it helps to have a guide to help you find\u00a0the best powder.Think that sounds expensive? Well, this winter, ski hostel Le Petit Baroudeur, with self-catering facilities and close to the Croix du Culet cable car in Champ\u00e9ry, has put together a budget Ski Safari package, including a ski pass for the region and a guide from the Swiss Ski School for three days, as well\u00a0as a ticket to the warm-water pools at Thermes-Parc, which would normally cost from \u00a315.The outlay: A Ski Safari stay at Le Petit Baroudeur (champery.ch), including four nights' bed and breakfast and three days' skiing with a guide, costs \u00a3282pp, based on a group of between seven and 10 people. Ski hire costs from \u00a392 for three days at Berra Sports (+41 24 479 1390, berra-sports.com), with up to 20% discount if booked in advance. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Geneva from \u00a360 return. Return train tickets from Geneva to Champ\u00e9ry cost from \u00a331 return (sbb.ch)Total approximate cost per person for four nights: \u00a3494 (B&B)Prices based on exchange rates at time of going to press and subject to change", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski on a budget \u2026 in Switzerland? Yes you can, and here's how"},{"date": "2013-10-13T05:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Why go? It's known as a winter sports destination, but savvy travellers head to Switzerland's Engadine in autumn, when\u00a0the larches turn golden, the skies are ice blue and there's a\u00a0dusting of snow on the mountaintops.What to doSome of the ski lifts run all year round and open up some great high-altitude hiking trails. Take the Muottas Muragl funicular for spectacular views and a lovely hike up to the mountain lake, Lej Muragl. An electric-bike tour to the Alpine dairy Morteratsch for a brunch of cheese and smoked sausage makes for a memorable excursion. Soak up the vista of the Bernina massif from Europe's highest Jacuzzi on the terrace of the Diavolezza mountain restaurant, some 3,000m above sea level (engadin.stmoritz.ch).Where to eat?The Panorama restaurant on Muottas Muragl lives up to its name and serves top-notch cuisine (muottasmuragl.ch). The Veltlinerkeller in St Moritz is popular with locals, offering home-style Swiss and Italian food (veltlinerkeller.ch). Follow up with coffee and nusstorte (nut tart) at the Confiserie Hanselmann (hanselmann.ch).Where to stayThe Hotel-Restorant Lej da Staz (lejdastaz.ch), on the shores of Lake Staz, oozes Alpine charm, with 10 cosy wood-panelled rooms offering a peaceful and rustic alternative to the glitzier options in nearby St Moritz. A free shuttle bus runs guests into town.Insider tipJohn Webster, a local guide and ski instructor, recommends the Segantini Museum (segantini-museum.ch) in St Moritz, which is dedicated to the work of the 19th-century Alpine painter Giovanni Segantini: \"It's a great attraction which very few people know about.\"It's given us the Hoxton fin haircut, the Hot Tub Cinema and the world's first pop-up shopping mall built from shipping containers, so it's no surprise that Shoreditch is at the cutting edge of hotel design. The Qbic London City (qbichotels.com) opens next week in a disused office block near Old Street offering a futuristic take on the budget hotel. Hip to the point of self-parody, Shoreditch is a neighbourhood that lends itself to ridicule. So let us not dwell on the fact that Qbic guests get to spend the night in a \"cube-shaped living box\" (aka a\u00a0\"room\") or that some of these don't have angular holes in the wall (aka windows) and focus instead on the things this hotel gets right.The price, for one. Rooms (albeit windowless) start at \u00a359, but even the most expensive room with a view is a budget-friendly \u00a384 (including breakfast). The public areas look stylish and the sound-proofed bedrooms and handmade organic mattresses should ensure a good night's sleep.The bed, bathroom, toilet and TV come as a modular unit, the \"cubi\", which can be quickly and cheaply installed, creating minimal environmental impact and bringing new life to empty buildings. There's a commitment to recruiting locally, and at least 20% of staff will be supplied by two local charities, Bikeworks and FoodCycle (which will also provide bike tours and pop-up food stations in the lobby).Trends that start in Shoreditch have a habit of spreading nationwide, and Qbic has big plans to\u00a0roll out its brand to city centres across the UK.\u00a0I've seen the future, and it's cube-shaped.Riad Bamboo A little pocket of calm in the heart of the medina, this welcoming riad offers great-value rooms a two-minute walk from the Djemaa el Fna. After a hard day's haggling in the souks, it's just a short stagger back to the Bamboo's shady courtyard, where you can sip a mint tea or take a dip in the small pool. Breakfast of homemade yogurt, bread and jam is served on the roof terrace. Rooms from \u00a341 (riadbamboo.com)Riad Dar Zaman This 18th-century riad in the old town has been refurbished as a four-room guesthouse with African artworks and soft Berber rugs. You can either book a room on a B&B basis or hire the whole house. Log fires in the lounge and dining room keep things cosy in the winter, and there's a concierge to arrange tours, cookery classes and restaurant bookings. Rooms from \u00a355 (darzaman.co.uk)Riad Star This quirky riad was home to Josephine Baker in the 1940s. The seven guest rooms are kitted out in traditional Moroccan style with an Art Deco twist, and the British owners pay homage to Baker with displays of Parisian music-hall memorabilia and a dressing-up box of 1920s clothes. Don't miss the candlelit massage in the hammam. Rooms from \u00a3140 (marrakech-riad.co.uk/riad-star-homepage/)Le Palais Paysan This modern retreat opened in the foothills of the Atlas mountains this summer, offering respite from the heat and hustle of Marrakech, 25km away. Sixteen low-key but indulgent rooms open on to balconies or a garden terrace. Come here for horse riding, star gazing or unwinding by the lovely pool with its views of olive groves and the snow-capped Djebel Toubkal. Rooms from \u00a3160 (lepalaispaysan.com)", "tags": ["Travel", "Marrakech holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "London holidays", "Walking holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: autumn in Switzerland, a new budget-friendly London hotel and where to stay in Marrakech | Joanne O'Connor"},{"date": "2013-11-24T18:53:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Swiss voters on Sunday decisively rejected a proposal to cap \"fat cat\" pay, in a ground-breaking referendum on the issue.Final results showed that votes against carried the day by 65.3% to 34.7% in favour. David Roth, the president of Switzerland's Young Socialists and the referendum's leading sponsor, said: \"We're disappointed [we] lost today.\"His proposal would have meant executives would have been unable to earn more in a month than their lowest-paid workers in a year. The so-called 1:12 referendum was the second ballot this year in traditionally conservative and business-friendly Switzerland on the subject of executive remuneration.In March, voters approved a measure that boosted shareholders' power over managerial salaries and banned one-off bonuses \u2013 so-called \"golden hellos\" and \"golden goodbyes\".Roth blamed Sunday's defeat on \"scare tactics\" by his opponents. Employers had mounted a vigorous counterattack, claiming approval of the initiative would undermine Switzerland's competitiveness, slash tax revenues and breach a taboo on giving the state a role in relations between employers and employees.Christian Keuschnigg, professor of public economics at the university of St Gallen, said a study he had carried out for the employers found the cost to the state would have ranged from \"close to zero to as much as Sfr4bn [\u00a32.7bn]\", depending on the reaction of business. The proponents of the scheme, backed by the Socialists and Greens, argued that the savings in top executive pay would be redistributed among the lower paid.But, said Keuschnigg, companies might have increased their dividends or relocated to other countries. \"Multinational corporations could easily switch their headquarters elsewhere,\" he told the Guardian. \"That danger in our view was quite real.\"Both the government and parliament had called for a \"no\" vote.Claude Longchamp, head of the polling group gfs.bern, said that, unlike the sponsors of the March referendum, \"the Young Socialists were unable to convince older voters\".Deborah Warburton, a partner in London-based executive search firm Hedley May, highlighted the radicalism of what voters had been asked to endorse.\"The Swiss proposal was much stricter even than the 20 times ratio that the TUC is calling for in the UK, so it's perhaps not surprising that it was rejected,\" she said. \"Even though it was a 'no' vote, the question of how to make executive pay fairer is still very much a live issue, with the UK having implemented a law giving shareholders a binding vote on executive pay only last month, France and Germany also considering such measures, and the EU working on potential draft legislation to give shareholders voting rights over executive pay.\"Nor will Sunday's verdict dispel concerns over pay imbalances in Switzerland. A separate initiative by the trade unions, aimed at the introduction of a minimum wage, is expected to go to a national vote next year.Roth said: \"Our fight will continue against 'fat cat' salaries and an unfair pay system. This system has no future. We succeeded in mobilising many people and launching a broad debate.\"The issue leapt into the headlines earlier this year after the Swiss drug group Novartis agreed to pay its outgoing chairman Daniel Vasella SFr72m (\u00a349m). The payment, which the firm scrapped, was aimed at preventing Vasella from using his knowledge to help rival pharmaceutical firms.The young Socialists claimed during the 1:12 campaign that the ratio of the average salary among Swiss CEOs to the average wage had leapt from six to one in 1984 to 43 to one in 2011. Calculations based on figures compiled by the trade union Travailsuisse indicate that the biggest pay imbalance is at another drug company, Roche, where the salary of the best-paid executive is 236 times that of the lowest-paid worker.Other firms where the ratio was in excess of 200 to one were ABB, Novartis and Credit Suisse. They were followed by Nestl\u00e9, UBS and Lindt & Sprungli.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Executive pay and bonuses", "Europe", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland votes against cap on executive pay"},{"date": "2013-12-27T23:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": " A series of avalanches in the Alps on Friday left five people dead, including a young Irishman, and several other skiers seriously injured, according to mountain rescue teams.Off-piste skiers have been warned there may be further avalanches this weekend.Seven skiers were swept away when avalanches hit the popular resorts of Val-Thorens, Courchevel, La Clusaz and Serre-Chevalier.One man, reportedly a French mountain worker, aged 50, died in Courchevel. He was trying to reach a mountain hostel with his son, when the pair were \"surprised by an avalanche\", rescue services said. The son was saved, but his father\u00a0died.In Serre-Chevalier, a skier, described as between 15 and 20 years of age, died in hospital after being buried in snow after an avalanche reportedly under the ski lifts.Two people were reported to be in a serious condition in La Clusaz after their group of six skiers and snowboarders, descending outside the marked runs despite warnings and advice for skiers to remain on the pistes, triggered an avalanche at an altitude of 2,200 metres. The snowfall hit the lower reaches of a black slope, where mountain rescue teams said they had no reports of victims but were searching the snowfall. French authorities also announced the death of an 18-year-old after an avalanche in La Plagne.At Val-Thorens, seven off-piste skiers set off an avalanche and had to be rescued by the emergency services.In Switzerland, where heavy snow has fallen for the past two days, two skiers were declared dead in separate incidents, one in St Moritz. Rescuers said they were unable to reach the second victim, said to be a 27-year-old Irishman, living in Zurich, swept away by an avalanche in the Uri region south of Realp, because of weather conditions.Ski authorities throughout the Alps said it was imperative that skiers kept to the marked slopes.Friday's deaths were the latest in a grim series of fatal avalanches to have hit the Alps in the past few days. On Thursday, a French skier, aged 24, from Annecy, died in the Italian Alps above Turin. On Wednesday, a 27-year-old Spanish skier was killed by an avalanche in Andorra. None of the victims have been named.", "tags": ["Avalanches", "France", "Switzerland", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Alps avalanches causes deaths in France and Switzerland"},{"date": "2013-12-15T06:00:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tucked into a natural basin in the sunniest corner of the Lower Engadine, the spa town of Scuol \u2013 a cluster of traditional houses decorated with sgraffito \u2013 is skirted by dazzling 3,000m peaks and overlooks the Swiss national park. The charming Bun di Scuol bed and breakfast is a traditional Engadiner property with five double rooms close to the ski bus stop. As well as serving breakfasts of homemade apple cake, hosts Leah and Michael let guests use the kitchen to self-cater free of charge.This winter, ski passes are included in the price of the room. The snow-sure Motta-Naluns ski area (up\u00a0to 2,800m above sea level) has\u00a0a\u00a0collection of easy and intermediate runs, including a\u00a0delightful 7.4-mile red down to Scuol. Treat yourself by relaxing in the thermal waters at the Bogn Engiadina Scuol spa\u00a0\u2013 which offers reduced rates of CHF18.50 (\u00a313) after 7.30pm \u2013 or by dining while gazing at charcoal-coloured summits at Pizzeria Taverna (meal for two around \u00a342, including drinks, +41 81 864 0147).The outlay: Bun di Scuol (+41 81 860 09 19, bundi-scuol.ch) costs from \u00a368 a night including ski passes. Ski hire at Sport Heinrich (sport-heinrich.ch) costs around \u00a368 for five days. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Zurich main station to Scuol-Tarasp by train costs from \u00a344 return with an SBB (sbb.ch) supersaver ticket.Total approximate cost per person for five nights: \u00a3427 (B&B)There is a thrill in making the first tracks on untouched pistes \u2013 not to mention the awe of spending the night\u00a0high on a\u00a0mountain with only the\u00a0moon for company. High above Laax (which, along with Flims and Falera, makes up the largest winter resort in Graub\u00fcnden canton), the functional, 132-bed Mountain Hostel Crap Sogn Gion is just off the mountain station \u2013 and the pistes \u2013 at 2,228m above sea level.Lift passes are included with each overnight stay, making for relatively affordable access to the 146 miles of blue, red, black and unprepared slopes, and four snow parks \u2013 one of which is home to Europe's largest half-pipe. After dark, guests can use the hostel's sauna (free), or share stories of huge airs and wipeouts while gathered around the open fire in the hostel's Capalari bar, where beers cost around \u00a33.40.The outlay: Mountain Hostel (mountain-hostel.ch) costs from \u00a3300pp for five nights half-board, including a six-day lift pass and sauna access. Ski or snowboard hire at any of the valley stations costs from \u00a3111 for six days (laax.com). Expect to pay around \u00a312 for lunch with a drink at the self-service restaurant. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton\u00a0to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Zurich main station to Laax Bergbahnen by train costs \u00a375 return (sbb.ch)Total approximate cost per person for five nights: \u00a3652 (half-board)The journey to Pontresina is as spectacular as the arrival: the famous red trains of the Rhaetian Railway glide across mountain passes and viaducts, skirting St Moritz, to Pontresina. The resort, a\u00a0collection of glitzy hotels and high-end boutiques, is the last place you\u00a0would expect to find a youth hostel. But, just as the glamorous village has a curious reputation as a\u00a0centre for outdoor pursuits, nothing here is as it seems.Pontresina Youth Hostel's Cross Country Skiing Hit package is an antidote to the glamour and expense of the area. Four cross-country ski tours for beginners are included with six nights half-board in the hostel, which serves four-course dinners every night. The hostel is steps\u00a0from the 130 miles of cross-country ski tracks that stretch through\u00a0the Upper Engadine, passing beneath the Roseg Glaciercorrect and crossing frozen lakes.The outlay: Pontresina Youth Hostel's (youthhostel.ch/de/hostels/pontresina) Cross Country Skiing Hit costs \u00a3303, including membership, for six nights half-board in a six-bed room (also bookable as a group), with four beginners' cross-country ski tours. Cross-country ski hire in the youth hostel's basement shop (pontresina-sports.ch) costs \u00a389 for four days. The youth hostel will provide packed lunches for \u00a36 a day. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Luton to Zurich from \u00a369 return. Return train tickets from Zurich main station to Pontresina cost from \u00a349 with an SBB (sbb.ch) supersaver ticket.Total approximate cost per person for six nights: \u00a3540 (half-board)  The Gruy\u00e8re district, between Lausanne and Berne, is most famous for its eponymous cheese, but it also has an array of family-friendly winter resorts.\u00a0And because this region of jagged pre-Alpine summits is off the beaten track, it is uncongested, with accordingly low prices. Mol\u00e9son is at the heart of it, beneath the 2,002m peak of the same name, and has views of Lake Geneva and Mont Blanc.The resort's 18.6\u00a0miles of pistes encompass a beginners' slope, several blue and red runs, and a black run from the summit of Le Mol\u00e9son. There are also two snowshoe trails, a\u00a0two-and-a-half- mile sledge run and a snow\u00a0park. Stay in a self-catering apartment with the Alpine Winter Adventure package and enjoy free access to it all, leaving you budget to\u00a0sample the region's renowned cheese fondue, followed by\u00a0meringues and double cream \u2013 Canton Fribourg's \"afternoon tea\" \u2013 at Plan Francey, a\u00a0chalet-style restaurant on the slopes\u00a0(fondue from \u00a316 and meringues \u00a36 each).The outlay: An Alpine Winter Adventure (moleson.ch) costs from \u00a3447 for two adults and two children for seven nights in an apartment, including six-day lift passes\u00a0and free access to the sledge run. Ski hire costs from \u00a385 for adults and \u00a351 for children for six days from Castella Sports SA (+41 26 921 33 49); sledges, rentable at the funicular, cost \u00a37 each. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Geneva from \u00a360 return. Mol\u00e9son is 1.5\u00a0hours from Geneva; car hire costs from \u00a3176 a week (genevaairportcarhire.net)Total approximate cost per family for seven nights: \u00a31,135 (self-catering)The Portes du Soleil ski area is one of the largest in Switzerland, comprising 12 linked Swiss and French resorts and occupying a 154-square-mile wedge of the mountainous Rh\u00f4ne valley region. A\u00a0good base is Champ\u00e9ry, a traditional village with some 150 years' experience\u00a0in welcoming tourists at the foot of the multi-summited Dents\u00a0du Midi. The skiing is low-lying (up to 2,400m above sea level) but it is varied, with 296\u00a0slopes and 194\u00a0mountain lifts \u2013 so you'll find it helps to have a guide to help you find\u00a0the best powder.Think that sounds expensive? Well, this winter, ski hostel Le Petit Baroudeur, with self-catering facilities and close to the Croix du Culet cable car in Champ\u00e9ry, has put together a budget Ski Safari package, including a ski pass for the region and a guide from the Swiss Ski School for three days, as well\u00a0as a ticket to the warm-water pools at Thermes-Parc, which would normally cost from \u00a315.The outlay: A Ski Safari stay at Le Petit Baroudeur (champery.ch), including four nights' bed and breakfast and three days' skiing with a guide, costs \u00a3282pp, based on a group of between seven and 10 people. Ski hire costs from \u00a392 for three days at Berra Sports (+41 24 479 1390, berra-sports.com), with up to 20% discount if booked in advance. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies from Gatwick to Geneva from \u00a360 return. Return train tickets from Geneva to Champ\u00e9ry cost from \u00a331 return (sbb.ch)Total approximate cost per person for four nights: \u00a3494 (B&B)Prices based on exchange rates at time of going to press and subject to change", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Europe holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski on a budget \u2026 in Switzerland? Yes you can, and here's how"},{"date": "2013-10-13T05:30:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Why go? It's known as a winter sports destination, but savvy travellers head to Switzerland's Engadine in autumn, when\u00a0the larches turn golden, the skies are ice blue and there's a\u00a0dusting of snow on the mountaintops.What to doSome of the ski lifts run all year round and open up some great high-altitude hiking trails. Take the Muottas Muragl funicular for spectacular views and a lovely hike up to the mountain lake, Lej Muragl. An electric-bike tour to the Alpine dairy Morteratsch for a brunch of cheese and smoked sausage makes for a memorable excursion. Soak up the vista of the Bernina massif from Europe's highest Jacuzzi on the terrace of the Diavolezza mountain restaurant, some 3,000m above sea level (engadin.stmoritz.ch).Where to eat?The Panorama restaurant on Muottas Muragl lives up to its name and serves top-notch cuisine (muottasmuragl.ch). The Veltlinerkeller in St Moritz is popular with locals, offering home-style Swiss and Italian food (veltlinerkeller.ch). Follow up with coffee and nusstorte (nut tart) at the Confiserie Hanselmann (hanselmann.ch).Where to stayThe Hotel-Restorant Lej da Staz (lejdastaz.ch), on the shores of Lake Staz, oozes Alpine charm, with 10 cosy wood-panelled rooms offering a peaceful and rustic alternative to the glitzier options in nearby St Moritz. A free shuttle bus runs guests into town.Insider tipJohn Webster, a local guide and ski instructor, recommends the Segantini Museum (segantini-museum.ch) in St Moritz, which is dedicated to the work of the 19th-century Alpine painter Giovanni Segantini: \"It's a great attraction which very few people know about.\"It's given us the Hoxton fin haircut, the Hot Tub Cinema and the world's first pop-up shopping mall built from shipping containers, so it's no surprise that Shoreditch is at the cutting edge of hotel design. The Qbic London City (qbichotels.com) opens next week in a disused office block near Old Street offering a futuristic take on the budget hotel. Hip to the point of self-parody, Shoreditch is a neighbourhood that lends itself to ridicule. So let us not dwell on the fact that Qbic guests get to spend the night in a \"cube-shaped living box\" (aka a\u00a0\"room\") or that some of these don't have angular holes in the wall (aka windows) and focus instead on the things this hotel gets right.The price, for one. Rooms (albeit windowless) start at \u00a359, but even the most expensive room with a view is a budget-friendly \u00a384 (including breakfast). The public areas look stylish and the sound-proofed bedrooms and handmade organic mattresses should ensure a good night's sleep.The bed, bathroom, toilet and TV come as a modular unit, the \"cubi\", which can be quickly and cheaply installed, creating minimal environmental impact and bringing new life to empty buildings. There's a commitment to recruiting locally, and at least 20% of staff will be supplied by two local charities, Bikeworks and FoodCycle (which will also provide bike tours and pop-up food stations in the lobby).Trends that start in Shoreditch have a habit of spreading nationwide, and Qbic has big plans to\u00a0roll out its brand to city centres across the UK.\u00a0I've seen the future, and it's cube-shaped.Riad Bamboo A little pocket of calm in the heart of the medina, this welcoming riad offers great-value rooms a two-minute walk from the Djemaa el Fna. After a hard day's haggling in the souks, it's just a short stagger back to the Bamboo's shady courtyard, where you can sip a mint tea or take a dip in the small pool. Breakfast of homemade yogurt, bread and jam is served on the roof terrace. Rooms from \u00a341 (riadbamboo.com)Riad Dar Zaman This 18th-century riad in the old town has been refurbished as a four-room guesthouse with African artworks and soft Berber rugs. You can either book a room on a B&B basis or hire the whole house. Log fires in the lounge and dining room keep things cosy in the winter, and there's a concierge to arrange tours, cookery classes and restaurant bookings. Rooms from \u00a355 (darzaman.co.uk)Riad Star This quirky riad was home to Josephine Baker in the 1940s. The seven guest rooms are kitted out in traditional Moroccan style with an Art Deco twist, and the British owners pay homage to Baker with displays of Parisian music-hall memorabilia and a dressing-up box of 1920s clothes. Don't miss the candlelit massage in the hammam. Rooms from \u00a3140 (marrakech-riad.co.uk/riad-star-homepage/)Le Palais Paysan This modern retreat opened in the foothills of the Atlas mountains this summer, offering respite from the heat and hustle of Marrakech, 25km away. Sixteen low-key but indulgent rooms open on to balconies or a garden terrace. Come here for horse riding, star gazing or unwinding by the lovely pool with its views of olive groves and the snow-capped Djebel Toubkal. Rooms from \u00a3160 (lepalaispaysan.com)", "tags": ["Travel", "Marrakech holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "London holidays", "Walking holidays"], "title": "Travel tips: autumn in Switzerland, a new budget-friendly London hotel and where to stay in Marrakech | Joanne O'Connor"},{"date": "2013-10-08T06:01:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": " The journalist who caused uproar in Greece by publishing the so-called 'Lagarde list' of suspected tax evaders with bank accounts in Switzerland, is on trial in Athens on charges of infringing privacy laws.Almost a year after he was acquitted of the crime, Kostas Vaxevanis is in the dock again on Tuesday after a public prosecutor took the unusual step of demanding he be retried for revealing the identities of more than 2,000 wealthy Greeks with cash deposits in Geneva.\"What is at stake is the ability of a journalist to exercise his duty as a public watchdog in a case of major public interest,\" his lawyer, Harris Ikonomopoulos said.A hotly guarded secret until it was printed by Vaxevanis in his investigative magazine Hot Doc last October, the list details the holdings of 2,059 Greeks at the Geneva branch of HSBC.Christine Lagarde, the then French finance minister , handed the list to Greek authorities in October 2010 with the express purpose of pursuing tax offenders.Lagarde, now the IMF's managing director, hoped it would shine a light on tax evasion, wideley seen as the root of the debt-stricken country's financial woes.But instead of putting it to such use, her Greek counterpart George Papaconstantinou has been accused of deliberately failing to act on it. This year, the Greek parliament voted to send the former finance minister to court after MPs found there was enough evidence to suggest he had tampered with the dossier to remove the names of his relatives included in it.\"Other European countries that received similar lists from France investigated the persons and entities on them and collected a significant amount in taxes that had been evaded,\" Ikonomopoulos said.\"Vaxevanis published the Lagarde list after discovering that Papaconstantinou had received it and done nothing to investigate its content.\"The British educated economist has vehemently denied that he erased the names of two of his cousins and their spouses. Instead, he has argued that he has been turned into a scapegoat by an establishment now under intense pressure to clean up the country's scandal-plagued political scene.Papaconstantinou is much loathed for being the architect of the punitive austerity measures outlined in Greece's first EU-IMF sponsored rescue programme.But the case has also highlighted press censorship.The demand that the journalist be retried after the public prosecutor's office deemed his initial acquittal to be flawed triggered international condemnation and was met with broad disbelief in Greece.\"It is ridiculous that I am being put on trial for publishing the list when parliament has decided to send the minister who hid it to court,\" Vaxevanis told the Guardian on the eve of his hearing. \"It is tragic that this should be happening when Greek authorities, from the courts to the police, have found it impossible to clamp down on tax avoidance and the extreme right Golden Dawn party, preferring to target journalists who reveal the truth instead.\"", "tags": ["Greece", "Europe", "World news", "Tax avoidance", "Christine Lagarde"], "title": "Greece retries journalist who leaked 'Lagarde list' of suspected tax evaders"},{"date": "2014-02-28T20:59:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When a skier is stock-still halfway down a piste, it usually means they are frozen with fear. They are unlikely to have stopped to \"listen to the whispers of the mountain\" \u2013 unless they are on the Paradiso piste in Corviglia, just above St Moritz, Switzerland. Welcome to the world's first yoga piste. Only in St Moritz, right? You could be forgiven for dismissing ski yoga as the latest gimmick for people with more money than sense (and there are certainly plenty of those here).Holidays that combine skiing and yoga classes are nothing new, but doing yoga on skis takes the concept a step further. The Swiss yoga piste, also known as the chill-out slope, was dreamed up by Sabrina Nussbaum, a local ski instructor and yoga teacher. She noticed that her fellow ski instructors were taking up yoga after suffering knee and back injuries, and thought that everyone could benefit from skiing in a more \"yogic\" way.Sabrina has selected four particularly scenic sites at which to do eight asanas (yoga postures). The slope is a red run and the sites themselves are off-piste, so beginners would struggle to reach them, but really the postures can be done anywhere on the mountain. You can pick up a \"Yoga on Snow\" leaflet at the surrounding ski lifts and follow the routine for free.Or you can book a half- or full-day lesson with Sabrina or her colleague, Priska Hotz, both from the Suvretta Snowsports School \u2013 some clients book a week, or even a whole month, of ski yoga. I spent a day with Sabrina, which included about six hours on the slopes, plus a 90-minute yoga class in the evening. Before I started, I was stiff and sore from the previous day's skiing, my first in two years. I was also a little nervous, because I seemed to have forgotten all my technique.We started, appropriately, with a tadasana (mountain pose). I dropped my poles, stood up straight and closed my eyes. Sabrina told me to relax my feet and be aware of the mountain beneath them. It may have been the fresh air and sunshine, or the altitude, but I immediately felt relaxed and happy. After each pose, we skied for a while, applying the principles of the asana to the skiing. So first I tried to keep my feet flat and grounded, lifting my toes during difficult sections, rather than scrunching them up tight. It was incredible how much more control I had over my skis. Changing one simple thing, rather than trying to remember a dozen rules, was a revelation.We stopped on top of an easy run to work on prana, or life force. This involved covering my ears and concentrating on my breathing. We skied down with our ears still covered, focusing on breathing calmly \u2013 quite difficult when you can't hear other skiers whizzing up behind you. We worked on breathing only through the nose for wide, gentle turns, or using \"breath of fire\" (a powerful, rhythmic pattern) for short, fast turns. The most useful exercise was remembering to exhale during fast or stressful moments, rather than holding the breath and tensing up.At lunchtimes, an array of expensive slopeside restaurants cater to the resort's super-wealthy clientele. La Marmite, for example, which specialises in caviar and truffles and, at 2,486m, is Europe's highest gourmet restaurant \u2013 with prices to match. But we skied down to Clavatasch, a \"hidden\" restaurant near St Moritz's village neighbour, Celerina. The wooden building is a former cowshed and has a tiny kitchen serving cheap, local specialities such as barley soup \u2013 a tasty but suitably healthy dish. (It doesn't have a website \u2013 ask around for directions, though even some locals I spoke to had never heard of it.) Braulio, a herbal alpine liqueur, is a warming digestif that fires you up for an afternoon's skiing.Equally, St Moritz Dorf (the upper, main part of town) is full of designer shops, five-star hotels and exclusive restaurants. But St Moritz Bad, down by the lake, is a better choice for a cheaper trip. I was staying there at Hotel Piz, a friendly place with a great pizzeria and a lively bar full of locals watching football. Across the road is Veltlinerkeller, a rustic restaurant that serves the carb-heavy dishes typical of the region, such as pizzoccheri \u2013 buckwheat pasta ribbons with swiss chard, potato and more cheese than you would ordinarily eat in a month. It is great fuel for all the activities available in St Moritz, the birthplace of winter sports tourism. I tried snowshoeing and cross-country skiing, and you can channel your inner Winter Olympian with bobsleigh, skeleton, curling and ice-skating.Back on the slopes, we found a sheltered, sunny spot to do some sun salutations \u2013 a good way to warm up \u2013 then returned to the yoga piste for more skiing and assorted asanas: the powerful warrior pose; the muscle-loosening triangle stretch and forward bend; the tree pose for balance.Whereas the previous day I had felt stressed and tired after a few hours, now I was calm and energised \u2013 I didn't want to stop. But it was time for savasana, or relaxation, at a beautiful spot on the edge of the slope, overlooking a string of lakes in the Engadin valley. I lay on my back, feeling the sun on my face and my body supported by the fresh snow, listening to the swoosh of skiers and the whispered wind. Yoga on snow didn't feel like a gimmick \u2013 it felt like a whole different way of skiing.\u2022 Accommodation was provided by Hotel Piz (+41 81 832 11 11, piz-stmoritz.ch, doubles from \u00a3128 a night B&B). Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com) which flies from Heathrow, London City, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich from \u00a3132 return. Train travel was provided by Swiss Railways: a return ticket from the airport to any Swiss destination costs \u00a396 (swisstravelsystem.co.uk). Ski yoga tuition costs from \u00a360 for a half day, engadin.stmoritz.ch ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski-yoga in Switzerland: salute the slopes"},{"date": "2014-02-28T20:59:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When a skier is stock-still halfway down a piste, it usually means they are frozen with fear. They are unlikely to have stopped to \"listen to the whispers of the mountain\" \u2013 unless they are on the Paradiso piste in Corviglia, just above St Moritz, Switzerland. Welcome to the world's first yoga piste. Only in St Moritz, right? You could be forgiven for dismissing ski yoga as the latest gimmick for people with more money than sense (and there are certainly plenty of those here).Holidays that combine skiing and yoga classes are nothing new, but doing yoga on skis takes the concept a step further. The Swiss yoga piste, also known as the chill-out slope, was dreamed up by Sabrina Nussbaum, a local ski instructor and yoga teacher. She noticed that her fellow ski instructors were taking up yoga after suffering knee and back injuries, and thought that everyone could benefit from skiing in a more \"yogic\" way.Sabrina has selected four particularly scenic sites at which to do eight asanas (yoga postures). The slope is a red run and the sites themselves are off-piste, so beginners would struggle to reach them, but really the postures can be done anywhere on the mountain. You can pick up a \"Yoga on Snow\" leaflet at the surrounding ski lifts and follow the routine for free.Or you can book a half- or full-day lesson with Sabrina or her colleague, Priska Hotz, both from the Suvretta Snowsports School \u2013 some clients book a week, or even a whole month, of ski yoga. I spent a day with Sabrina, which included about six hours on the slopes, plus a 90-minute yoga class in the evening. Before I started, I was stiff and sore from the previous day's skiing, my first in two years. I was also a little nervous, because I seemed to have forgotten all my technique.We started, appropriately, with a tadasana (mountain pose). I dropped my poles, stood up straight and closed my eyes. Sabrina told me to relax my feet and be aware of the mountain beneath them. It may have been the fresh air and sunshine, or the altitude, but I immediately felt relaxed and happy. After each pose, we skied for a while, applying the principles of the asana to the skiing. So first I tried to keep my feet flat and grounded, lifting my toes during difficult sections, rather than scrunching them up tight. It was incredible how much more control I had over my skis. Changing one simple thing, rather than trying to remember a dozen rules, was a revelation.We stopped on top of an easy run to work on prana, or life force. This involved covering my ears and concentrating on my breathing. We skied down with our ears still covered, focusing on breathing calmly \u2013 quite difficult when you can't hear other skiers whizzing up behind you. We worked on breathing only through the nose for wide, gentle turns, or using \"breath of fire\" (a powerful, rhythmic pattern) for short, fast turns. The most useful exercise was remembering to exhale during fast or stressful moments, rather than holding the breath and tensing up.At lunchtimes, an array of expensive slopeside restaurants cater to the resort's super-wealthy clientele. La Marmite, for example, which specialises in caviar and truffles and, at 2,486m, is Europe's highest gourmet restaurant \u2013 with prices to match. But we skied down to Clavatasch, a \"hidden\" restaurant near St Moritz's village neighbour, Celerina. The wooden building is a former cowshed and has a tiny kitchen serving cheap, local specialities such as barley soup \u2013 a tasty but suitably healthy dish. (It doesn't have a website \u2013 ask around for directions, though even some locals I spoke to had never heard of it.) Braulio, a herbal alpine liqueur, is a warming digestif that fires you up for an afternoon's skiing.Equally, St Moritz Dorf (the upper, main part of town) is full of designer shops, five-star hotels and exclusive restaurants. But St Moritz Bad, down by the lake, is a better choice for a cheaper trip. I was staying there at Hotel Piz, a friendly place with a great pizzeria and a lively bar full of locals watching football. Across the road is Veltlinerkeller, a rustic restaurant that serves the carb-heavy dishes typical of the region, such as pizzoccheri \u2013 buckwheat pasta ribbons with swiss chard, potato and more cheese than you would ordinarily eat in a month. It is great fuel for all the activities available in St Moritz, the birthplace of winter sports tourism. I tried snowshoeing and cross-country skiing, and you can channel your inner Winter Olympian with bobsleigh, skeleton, curling and ice-skating.Back on the slopes, we found a sheltered, sunny spot to do some sun salutations \u2013 a good way to warm up \u2013 then returned to the yoga piste for more skiing and assorted asanas: the powerful warrior pose; the muscle-loosening triangle stretch and forward bend; the tree pose for balance.Whereas the previous day I had felt stressed and tired after a few hours, now I was calm and energised \u2013 I didn't want to stop. But it was time for savasana, or relaxation, at a beautiful spot on the edge of the slope, overlooking a string of lakes in the Engadin valley. I lay on my back, feeling the sun on my face and my body supported by the fresh snow, listening to the swoosh of skiers and the whispered wind. Yoga on snow didn't feel like a gimmick \u2013 it felt like a whole different way of skiing.\u2022 Accommodation was provided by Hotel Piz (+41 81 832 11 11, piz-stmoritz.ch, doubles from \u00a3128 a night B&B). Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com) which flies from Heathrow, London City, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich from \u00a3132 return. Train travel was provided by Swiss Railways: a return ticket from the airport to any Swiss destination costs \u00a396 (swisstravelsystem.co.uk). Ski yoga tuition costs from \u00a360 for a half day, engadin.stmoritz.ch ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski-yoga in Switzerland: salute the slopes"},{"date": "2014-02-10T08:17:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Eurosceptic anti-immigrant movements across Europe received a boost on Sunday when Switzerland voted by the slimmest of margins to impose quotas on newcomers to the country, thrusting its relations with the EU into uncertainty.In a referendum mobilised by far-right populists demanding caps on immigration in a country where almost one in four of the population are immigrants, 50.4% of voters supported the measure, in a relatively high turnout of 56%.The vote split Switzerland east to west, with the francophone west voting against the quotas and the German-speaking east backing the clampdown.The European commission said it regretted the outcome of the Swiss vote and would need to review the impact on overall relations between Switzerland and the EU.\"This goes against the principle of free movement of people between the EU and Switzerland,\" the commission said.While Switzerland is not an EU member, it is closely integrated with the union and is a member of Europe's passport-free Schengen regime. The vote to cap immigration throws this into question, undermining several bilateral agreements between Brussels and Berne, and challenging the Schengen system since the caps will also apply to EU citizens who previously enjoyed unfettered travel and working rights in Switzerland under the open borders system.A little more than three months before elections to the European parliament, in which far-right anti-immigration populists are expected to make gains, the Swiss verdict is certain to galvanise the more extreme wings of European politics and chasten the mainstream.France's National Front, tipped to come first in the French European elections in May, was quick to congratulate the Swiss voters on their verdict. Similar anti-immigrant parties are doing well in the Netherlands, Austria and Scandinavia.The results may also be seized on in Britain, where David Cameron espouses similar policies of curbing freedom of movement within the EU and setting caps on those allowed to migrate from future new EU members.The situations are different: Switzerland is not in the EU but in Schengen, while Britain is an EU member but not part of the Schengen system. However, freedom of movement for EU citizens is a central pillar of the EU's single market and applies both to the union and to the Schengen countries.The Swiss yes vote came as a surprise since opinion polls had shown a majority against the quotas in a country that is one of the world's wealthiest and most successful, with a jobless rate of less than 4%, the lowest in Europe.The vote, organised by the arch-conservative and Eurosceptic Swiss People's party, raises the prospect of Switzerland having to quit the Schengen system, which it joined in 2002, and its citizens forfeiting passport-free travel across most of Europe.Brussels may also demand the renegotiation of several bilateral agreements with the Swiss regulating the neutral country's access to Europe's single market.About 80,000 EU citizens freely settle in Switzerland every year, most coming from Germany but with large numbers also coming from neighbouring Italy and France.The government opposed the quotas, as did Swiss business leaders. The government now has to come up with new legislation fleshing out the detail within three years.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European commission", "European elections"], "title": "Switzerland backs immigration quotas by slim margin"},{"date": "2014-02-28T20:59:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When a skier is stock-still halfway down a piste, it usually means they are frozen with fear. They are unlikely to have stopped to \"listen to the whispers of the mountain\" \u2013 unless they are on the Paradiso piste in Corviglia, just above St Moritz, Switzerland. Welcome to the world's first yoga piste. Only in St Moritz, right? You could be forgiven for dismissing ski yoga as the latest gimmick for people with more money than sense (and there are certainly plenty of those here).Holidays that combine skiing and yoga classes are nothing new, but doing yoga on skis takes the concept a step further. The Swiss yoga piste, also known as the chill-out slope, was dreamed up by Sabrina Nussbaum, a local ski instructor and yoga teacher. She noticed that her fellow ski instructors were taking up yoga after suffering knee and back injuries, and thought that everyone could benefit from skiing in a more \"yogic\" way.Sabrina has selected four particularly scenic sites at which to do eight asanas (yoga postures). The slope is a red run and the sites themselves are off-piste, so beginners would struggle to reach them, but really the postures can be done anywhere on the mountain. You can pick up a \"Yoga on Snow\" leaflet at the surrounding ski lifts and follow the routine for free.Or you can book a half- or full-day lesson with Sabrina or her colleague, Priska Hotz, both from the Suvretta Snowsports School \u2013 some clients book a week, or even a whole month, of ski yoga. I spent a day with Sabrina, which included about six hours on the slopes, plus a 90-minute yoga class in the evening. Before I started, I was stiff and sore from the previous day's skiing, my first in two years. I was also a little nervous, because I seemed to have forgotten all my technique.We started, appropriately, with a tadasana (mountain pose). I dropped my poles, stood up straight and closed my eyes. Sabrina told me to relax my feet and be aware of the mountain beneath them. It may have been the fresh air and sunshine, or the altitude, but I immediately felt relaxed and happy. After each pose, we skied for a while, applying the principles of the asana to the skiing. So first I tried to keep my feet flat and grounded, lifting my toes during difficult sections, rather than scrunching them up tight. It was incredible how much more control I had over my skis. Changing one simple thing, rather than trying to remember a dozen rules, was a revelation.We stopped on top of an easy run to work on prana, or life force. This involved covering my ears and concentrating on my breathing. We skied down with our ears still covered, focusing on breathing calmly \u2013 quite difficult when you can't hear other skiers whizzing up behind you. We worked on breathing only through the nose for wide, gentle turns, or using \"breath of fire\" (a powerful, rhythmic pattern) for short, fast turns. The most useful exercise was remembering to exhale during fast or stressful moments, rather than holding the breath and tensing up.At lunchtimes, an array of expensive slopeside restaurants cater to the resort's super-wealthy clientele. La Marmite, for example, which specialises in caviar and truffles and, at 2,486m, is Europe's highest gourmet restaurant \u2013 with prices to match. But we skied down to Clavatasch, a \"hidden\" restaurant near St Moritz's village neighbour, Celerina. The wooden building is a former cowshed and has a tiny kitchen serving cheap, local specialities such as barley soup \u2013 a tasty but suitably healthy dish. (It doesn't have a website \u2013 ask around for directions, though even some locals I spoke to had never heard of it.) Braulio, a herbal alpine liqueur, is a warming digestif that fires you up for an afternoon's skiing.Equally, St Moritz Dorf (the upper, main part of town) is full of designer shops, five-star hotels and exclusive restaurants. But St Moritz Bad, down by the lake, is a better choice for a cheaper trip. I was staying there at Hotel Piz, a friendly place with a great pizzeria and a lively bar full of locals watching football. Across the road is Veltlinerkeller, a rustic restaurant that serves the carb-heavy dishes typical of the region, such as pizzoccheri \u2013 buckwheat pasta ribbons with swiss chard, potato and more cheese than you would ordinarily eat in a month. It is great fuel for all the activities available in St Moritz, the birthplace of winter sports tourism. I tried snowshoeing and cross-country skiing, and you can channel your inner Winter Olympian with bobsleigh, skeleton, curling and ice-skating.Back on the slopes, we found a sheltered, sunny spot to do some sun salutations \u2013 a good way to warm up \u2013 then returned to the yoga piste for more skiing and assorted asanas: the powerful warrior pose; the muscle-loosening triangle stretch and forward bend; the tree pose for balance.Whereas the previous day I had felt stressed and tired after a few hours, now I was calm and energised \u2013 I didn't want to stop. But it was time for savasana, or relaxation, at a beautiful spot on the edge of the slope, overlooking a string of lakes in the Engadin valley. I lay on my back, feeling the sun on my face and my body supported by the fresh snow, listening to the swoosh of skiers and the whispered wind. Yoga on snow didn't feel like a gimmick \u2013 it felt like a whole different way of skiing.\u2022 Accommodation was provided by Hotel Piz (+41 81 832 11 11, piz-stmoritz.ch, doubles from \u00a3128 a night B&B). Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com) which flies from Heathrow, London City, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich from \u00a3132 return. Train travel was provided by Swiss Railways: a return ticket from the airport to any Swiss destination costs \u00a396 (swisstravelsystem.co.uk). Ski yoga tuition costs from \u00a360 for a half day, engadin.stmoritz.ch ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski-yoga in Switzerland: salute the slopes"},{"date": "2014-02-10T08:17:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Eurosceptic anti-immigrant movements across Europe received a boost on Sunday when Switzerland voted by the slimmest of margins to impose quotas on newcomers to the country, thrusting its relations with the EU into uncertainty.In a referendum mobilised by far-right populists demanding caps on immigration in a country where almost one in four of the population are immigrants, 50.4% of voters supported the measure, in a relatively high turnout of 56%.The vote split Switzerland east to west, with the francophone west voting against the quotas and the German-speaking east backing the clampdown.The European commission said it regretted the outcome of the Swiss vote and would need to review the impact on overall relations between Switzerland and the EU.\"This goes against the principle of free movement of people between the EU and Switzerland,\" the commission said.While Switzerland is not an EU member, it is closely integrated with the union and is a member of Europe's passport-free Schengen regime. The vote to cap immigration throws this into question, undermining several bilateral agreements between Brussels and Berne, and challenging the Schengen system since the caps will also apply to EU citizens who previously enjoyed unfettered travel and working rights in Switzerland under the open borders system.A little more than three months before elections to the European parliament, in which far-right anti-immigration populists are expected to make gains, the Swiss verdict is certain to galvanise the more extreme wings of European politics and chasten the mainstream.France's National Front, tipped to come first in the French European elections in May, was quick to congratulate the Swiss voters on their verdict. Similar anti-immigrant parties are doing well in the Netherlands, Austria and Scandinavia.The results may also be seized on in Britain, where David Cameron espouses similar policies of curbing freedom of movement within the EU and setting caps on those allowed to migrate from future new EU members.The situations are different: Switzerland is not in the EU but in Schengen, while Britain is an EU member but not part of the Schengen system. However, freedom of movement for EU citizens is a central pillar of the EU's single market and applies both to the union and to the Schengen countries.The Swiss yes vote came as a surprise since opinion polls had shown a majority against the quotas in a country that is one of the world's wealthiest and most successful, with a jobless rate of less than 4%, the lowest in Europe.The vote, organised by the arch-conservative and Eurosceptic Swiss People's party, raises the prospect of Switzerland having to quit the Schengen system, which it joined in 2002, and its citizens forfeiting passport-free travel across most of Europe.Brussels may also demand the renegotiation of several bilateral agreements with the Swiss regulating the neutral country's access to Europe's single market.About 80,000 EU citizens freely settle in Switzerland every year, most coming from Germany but with large numbers also coming from neighbouring Italy and France.The government opposed the quotas, as did Swiss business leaders. The government now has to come up with new legislation fleshing out the detail within three years.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European commission", "European elections"], "title": "Switzerland backs immigration quotas by slim margin"},{"date": "2014-02-10T19:19:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's key neighbours have warned that the country's close relationship with the European Union hinged on how it coped with the decision to scrap free movement for EU citizens.Berlin and Paris voiced dismay over Sunday's Swiss referendum, which decided by a thin majority to introduce quotas for migrants from the EU, scrapping a longstanding agreement with Brussels guaranteeing freedom of movement.The verdict shocked the European and Swiss elites as it overturned the key pact governing links between the EU and Switzerland, meaning a package of accords partly integrating the country in the EU without being a member could unravel.A spokesman for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said the vote's surprise outcome created \"substantial problems\". France's foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said the EU would need to review its relations with Switzerland because of the vote to curb EU citizens' rights.As anti-immigration campaigners across Europe took delight in the Swiss backlash against newcomers, it was clear that the government in Berne faces a dilemma. The fallout from the vote affects a range of agreements with Brussels that allow the Swiss open access to Europe's single market on everything from selling cheese to competing for public tenders to civil aviation, transport and research.The strongest warning to the Swiss came from Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Germany's foreign minister. \"Cherry-picking with the EU is not a sustainable strategy. The Swiss have damaged themselves with this result. The fair co-operation we have had in the past with Switzerland also includes observing the central fundamental decisions taken by the EU,\" he said.Freedom of movement is one of the four keystones of the single market. Switzerland's access to the market \u2013 the EU takes 60% of Swiss exports \u2013 is based on seven bilateral agreements from 1999, including the free movement pact. The package of seven agreements are interlinked, including guillotine clauses, which means that if one agreement is ditched, the whole package collapses.For Brussels, said a European commission spokeswoman, free movement is a \"sacred liberty. The ball is in the Swiss court. They have to decide what consequences to draw.\"Merkel's spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said there would need to be \"difficult talks\" with the Swiss.Markus Spillmann, editor of the Neue Z\u00fcrcher Zeitung in Zurich, said:\"The relationship between Switzerland and the EU is now completely open. There will certainly be no good for the economy and for prosperity in this country,\" he wrote. \"Inward-looking Switzerland has won. That's not good for a small, open, resources-poor country.\"Sunday's referendum, which passed by 50.3% of votes, was mounted by the populist conservative anti-immigration campaigners of the Swiss People's party. Mainstream politicians, the business community and most urban voters all opposed the immigration caps and were defeated.The EU and Switzerland are supposed to open negotiations on Wednesday on a new updated framework agreement regulating relations, which have been fraught in recent years because of disputes over banking secrecy and taxation.The referendum result obliges the Swiss government to cap immigration, but it does not stipulate how and Berne has three years to turn the voters' verdict into law, giving it time to negotiate with Brussels and other EU capitals.\"The referendum did not specify how these measures will be implemented. It only calls for upper bounds on immigration in order to fulfil economic needs,\" said Reto F\u00f6llmi, professor of international economics at the University of St Gallen. \"If there is any chance of getting the EU to agree to this, Switzerland must make huge concessions in the other fields of the bilateral negotiations.\"But it is difficult to see Brussels diluting freedom of movement to satisfy the Swiss while also allowing Berne preferential access to the single market.Credit Suisse warned of a negative impact on Swiss growth prospects, foreign investment and job losses, adding that there would be problems finding the right staff for highly qualified jobs.There are several hundred thousand EU nationals living and working in Switzerland, mainly from Italy, Germany, Portugal and France, while some 450,000 Swiss also live and work in EU countries.One hundred days before elections to the European parliament, in which immigration will be a central issue, the populist right hailed the Swiss verdict as a template for the rest of the EU.Geert Wilders, the rightwing Dutch populist, called the Swiss result \"fantastic'' and called on the Netherlands to follow suit.Marine Le Pen, leader of France's National Front, said the same about France. \"This Swiss victory will reinforce the will of the French people to stop mass immigration,\" she said.In Germany, where Euroscepticism is much weaker, the new anti-single currency party, Alternative for Germany, demanded a referendum on immigration.And in Austria, Heinz-Christian Strache, leader of the far-right Freedom party, which is currently nudging the top of the opinion polls, called for the same.If mainstream leaders across Europe are alarmed at the implications of the Swiss vote, analysts said, it is also because they know similar results could be expected in several countries across the EU if single-issue plebiscites were held.Swiss voters have asked a big question of their country's place in Europe. They want fewer Europeans coming to live and work in their country. But the timing and the verdict of Sunday's plebiscite mean that for once Switzerland's direct democracy will echo well beyond its Alpine peaks and valleys.It will be heard particularly clearly in Britain where David Cameron has been proposing very similar measures to those supported by the Swiss \u2013 a cap on migration within the European Union and a dilution of one of the EU's basic liberties, the free movement of labour.Nowhere will the ensuing wrangle between Brussels and Berne be followed more closely than in London, because of the implications for Cameron's EU referendum and new-deal-for-the-UK campaign.On the EU side, in trying to resolve the Swiss conundrum an uppermost consideration will be to avoid any concessions on freedom of movement that would encourage British chutzpah in seeking to bend the EU to its will.No cherrypicking, can't have your cake and eat it, got to take the rough with the smooth. Such were the mantras from Brussels and Berlin on Monday following the Swiss shock. The message might as well be directed at Britain's Conservatives as at the Swiss.The two cases are very different. Britain is a (relatively) big country in Europe. Switzerland is small, if highly successful and wealthy. Switzerland is not in the EU. Britain is. But the same freedom of movement rules apply to both. Berne will now need to renegotiate the terms of its integration with the EU, just as Cameron insists he wants to renegotiate the terms of Britain's EU membership in order to put a winnable proposition to a Swiss-style plebiscite in 2017 if he is re-elected next year.Freedom of movement goes to the heart of the single market, the bit that Britain likes most about the EU. It is founded on four freedoms \u2013 of goods, services, capital, and labour. Britain has always been the single market's foremost champion, Margaret Thatcher to the fore. It remains so. But it wants to dilute one of its central premises.There is little evidence to suggest EU migration to Britain over the past decade has done anything but mildly boost economic performance and help the fiscal balance. Swiss economic analysis on Monday reached the same conclusion about the impact of the vote \u2013 that it would depress growth, hurt outside investment, damage exports.The main message from Brussels to the Swiss was that reversing freedom of movement inevitably entails rewriting the entire complex gamut of the confederation's legal relationship with the EU, not to Switzerland's advantage.The precedent is not a happy one for a Conservative party committed to free trade and the single market. But the popular Swiss verdict also feeds into the European zeitgeist, of hostility to foreigners, of scapegoating, of fears of jobs being lost to outsiders (in a country with the lowest jobless rate in Europe), of social services being abused by non-natives.The Swiss experience, over the next couple of years, may turn out to be salutary and chastening for a Britain and a Cameron government mulling its European options.Ian Traynor, Europe editor", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "European Union", "The far right", "France", "European commission", "World news", "Germany", "European elections", "Geert Wilders", "Marine Le Pen", "Angela Merkel", "Austria"], "title": "Switzerland faces 'difficult talks' with EU after immigration referendum"},{"date": "2014-02-28T20:59:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When a skier is stock-still halfway down a piste, it usually means they are frozen with fear. They are unlikely to have stopped to \"listen to the whispers of the mountain\" \u2013 unless they are on the Paradiso piste in Corviglia, just above St Moritz, Switzerland. Welcome to the world's first yoga piste. Only in St Moritz, right? You could be forgiven for dismissing ski yoga as the latest gimmick for people with more money than sense (and there are certainly plenty of those here).Holidays that combine skiing and yoga classes are nothing new, but doing yoga on skis takes the concept a step further. The Swiss yoga piste, also known as the chill-out slope, was dreamed up by Sabrina Nussbaum, a local ski instructor and yoga teacher. She noticed that her fellow ski instructors were taking up yoga after suffering knee and back injuries, and thought that everyone could benefit from skiing in a more \"yogic\" way.Sabrina has selected four particularly scenic sites at which to do eight asanas (yoga postures). The slope is a red run and the sites themselves are off-piste, so beginners would struggle to reach them, but really the postures can be done anywhere on the mountain. You can pick up a \"Yoga on Snow\" leaflet at the surrounding ski lifts and follow the routine for free.Or you can book a half- or full-day lesson with Sabrina or her colleague, Priska Hotz, both from the Suvretta Snowsports School \u2013 some clients book a week, or even a whole month, of ski yoga. I spent a day with Sabrina, which included about six hours on the slopes, plus a 90-minute yoga class in the evening. Before I started, I was stiff and sore from the previous day's skiing, my first in two years. I was also a little nervous, because I seemed to have forgotten all my technique.We started, appropriately, with a tadasana (mountain pose). I dropped my poles, stood up straight and closed my eyes. Sabrina told me to relax my feet and be aware of the mountain beneath them. It may have been the fresh air and sunshine, or the altitude, but I immediately felt relaxed and happy. After each pose, we skied for a while, applying the principles of the asana to the skiing. So first I tried to keep my feet flat and grounded, lifting my toes during difficult sections, rather than scrunching them up tight. It was incredible how much more control I had over my skis. Changing one simple thing, rather than trying to remember a dozen rules, was a revelation.We stopped on top of an easy run to work on prana, or life force. This involved covering my ears and concentrating on my breathing. We skied down with our ears still covered, focusing on breathing calmly \u2013 quite difficult when you can't hear other skiers whizzing up behind you. We worked on breathing only through the nose for wide, gentle turns, or using \"breath of fire\" (a powerful, rhythmic pattern) for short, fast turns. The most useful exercise was remembering to exhale during fast or stressful moments, rather than holding the breath and tensing up.At lunchtimes, an array of expensive slopeside restaurants cater to the resort's super-wealthy clientele. La Marmite, for example, which specialises in caviar and truffles and, at 2,486m, is Europe's highest gourmet restaurant \u2013 with prices to match. But we skied down to Clavatasch, a \"hidden\" restaurant near St Moritz's village neighbour, Celerina. The wooden building is a former cowshed and has a tiny kitchen serving cheap, local specialities such as barley soup \u2013 a tasty but suitably healthy dish. (It doesn't have a website \u2013 ask around for directions, though even some locals I spoke to had never heard of it.) Braulio, a herbal alpine liqueur, is a warming digestif that fires you up for an afternoon's skiing.Equally, St Moritz Dorf (the upper, main part of town) is full of designer shops, five-star hotels and exclusive restaurants. But St Moritz Bad, down by the lake, is a better choice for a cheaper trip. I was staying there at Hotel Piz, a friendly place with a great pizzeria and a lively bar full of locals watching football. Across the road is Veltlinerkeller, a rustic restaurant that serves the carb-heavy dishes typical of the region, such as pizzoccheri \u2013 buckwheat pasta ribbons with swiss chard, potato and more cheese than you would ordinarily eat in a month. It is great fuel for all the activities available in St Moritz, the birthplace of winter sports tourism. I tried snowshoeing and cross-country skiing, and you can channel your inner Winter Olympian with bobsleigh, skeleton, curling and ice-skating.Back on the slopes, we found a sheltered, sunny spot to do some sun salutations \u2013 a good way to warm up \u2013 then returned to the yoga piste for more skiing and assorted asanas: the powerful warrior pose; the muscle-loosening triangle stretch and forward bend; the tree pose for balance.Whereas the previous day I had felt stressed and tired after a few hours, now I was calm and energised \u2013 I didn't want to stop. But it was time for savasana, or relaxation, at a beautiful spot on the edge of the slope, overlooking a string of lakes in the Engadin valley. I lay on my back, feeling the sun on my face and my body supported by the fresh snow, listening to the swoosh of skiers and the whispered wind. Yoga on snow didn't feel like a gimmick \u2013 it felt like a whole different way of skiing.\u2022 Accommodation was provided by Hotel Piz (+41 81 832 11 11, piz-stmoritz.ch, doubles from \u00a3128 a night B&B). Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com) which flies from Heathrow, London City, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich from \u00a3132 return. Train travel was provided by Swiss Railways: a return ticket from the airport to any Swiss destination costs \u00a396 (swisstravelsystem.co.uk). Ski yoga tuition costs from \u00a360 for a half day, engadin.stmoritz.ch ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski-yoga in Switzerland: salute the slopes"},{"date": "2014-02-10T08:17:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Eurosceptic anti-immigrant movements across Europe received a boost on Sunday when Switzerland voted by the slimmest of margins to impose quotas on newcomers to the country, thrusting its relations with the EU into uncertainty.In a referendum mobilised by far-right populists demanding caps on immigration in a country where almost one in four of the population are immigrants, 50.4% of voters supported the measure, in a relatively high turnout of 56%.The vote split Switzerland east to west, with the francophone west voting against the quotas and the German-speaking east backing the clampdown.The European commission said it regretted the outcome of the Swiss vote and would need to review the impact on overall relations between Switzerland and the EU.\"This goes against the principle of free movement of people between the EU and Switzerland,\" the commission said.While Switzerland is not an EU member, it is closely integrated with the union and is a member of Europe's passport-free Schengen regime. The vote to cap immigration throws this into question, undermining several bilateral agreements between Brussels and Berne, and challenging the Schengen system since the caps will also apply to EU citizens who previously enjoyed unfettered travel and working rights in Switzerland under the open borders system.A little more than three months before elections to the European parliament, in which far-right anti-immigration populists are expected to make gains, the Swiss verdict is certain to galvanise the more extreme wings of European politics and chasten the mainstream.France's National Front, tipped to come first in the French European elections in May, was quick to congratulate the Swiss voters on their verdict. Similar anti-immigrant parties are doing well in the Netherlands, Austria and Scandinavia.The results may also be seized on in Britain, where David Cameron espouses similar policies of curbing freedom of movement within the EU and setting caps on those allowed to migrate from future new EU members.The situations are different: Switzerland is not in the EU but in Schengen, while Britain is an EU member but not part of the Schengen system. However, freedom of movement for EU citizens is a central pillar of the EU's single market and applies both to the union and to the Schengen countries.The Swiss yes vote came as a surprise since opinion polls had shown a majority against the quotas in a country that is one of the world's wealthiest and most successful, with a jobless rate of less than 4%, the lowest in Europe.The vote, organised by the arch-conservative and Eurosceptic Swiss People's party, raises the prospect of Switzerland having to quit the Schengen system, which it joined in 2002, and its citizens forfeiting passport-free travel across most of Europe.Brussels may also demand the renegotiation of several bilateral agreements with the Swiss regulating the neutral country's access to Europe's single market.About 80,000 EU citizens freely settle in Switzerland every year, most coming from Germany but with large numbers also coming from neighbouring Italy and France.The government opposed the quotas, as did Swiss business leaders. The government now has to come up with new legislation fleshing out the detail within three years.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European commission", "European elections"], "title": "Switzerland backs immigration quotas by slim margin"},{"date": "2014-02-10T19:19:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's key neighbours have warned that the country's close relationship with the European Union hinged on how it coped with the decision to scrap free movement for EU citizens.Berlin and Paris voiced dismay over Sunday's Swiss referendum, which decided by a thin majority to introduce quotas for migrants from the EU, scrapping a longstanding agreement with Brussels guaranteeing freedom of movement.The verdict shocked the European and Swiss elites as it overturned the key pact governing links between the EU and Switzerland, meaning a package of accords partly integrating the country in the EU without being a member could unravel.A spokesman for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said the vote's surprise outcome created \"substantial problems\". France's foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said the EU would need to review its relations with Switzerland because of the vote to curb EU citizens' rights.As anti-immigration campaigners across Europe took delight in the Swiss backlash against newcomers, it was clear that the government in Berne faces a dilemma. The fallout from the vote affects a range of agreements with Brussels that allow the Swiss open access to Europe's single market on everything from selling cheese to competing for public tenders to civil aviation, transport and research.The strongest warning to the Swiss came from Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Germany's foreign minister. \"Cherry-picking with the EU is not a sustainable strategy. The Swiss have damaged themselves with this result. The fair co-operation we have had in the past with Switzerland also includes observing the central fundamental decisions taken by the EU,\" he said.Freedom of movement is one of the four keystones of the single market. Switzerland's access to the market \u2013 the EU takes 60% of Swiss exports \u2013 is based on seven bilateral agreements from 1999, including the free movement pact. The package of seven agreements are interlinked, including guillotine clauses, which means that if one agreement is ditched, the whole package collapses.For Brussels, said a European commission spokeswoman, free movement is a \"sacred liberty. The ball is in the Swiss court. They have to decide what consequences to draw.\"Merkel's spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said there would need to be \"difficult talks\" with the Swiss.Markus Spillmann, editor of the Neue Z\u00fcrcher Zeitung in Zurich, said:\"The relationship between Switzerland and the EU is now completely open. There will certainly be no good for the economy and for prosperity in this country,\" he wrote. \"Inward-looking Switzerland has won. That's not good for a small, open, resources-poor country.\"Sunday's referendum, which passed by 50.3% of votes, was mounted by the populist conservative anti-immigration campaigners of the Swiss People's party. Mainstream politicians, the business community and most urban voters all opposed the immigration caps and were defeated.The EU and Switzerland are supposed to open negotiations on Wednesday on a new updated framework agreement regulating relations, which have been fraught in recent years because of disputes over banking secrecy and taxation.The referendum result obliges the Swiss government to cap immigration, but it does not stipulate how and Berne has three years to turn the voters' verdict into law, giving it time to negotiate with Brussels and other EU capitals.\"The referendum did not specify how these measures will be implemented. It only calls for upper bounds on immigration in order to fulfil economic needs,\" said Reto F\u00f6llmi, professor of international economics at the University of St Gallen. \"If there is any chance of getting the EU to agree to this, Switzerland must make huge concessions in the other fields of the bilateral negotiations.\"But it is difficult to see Brussels diluting freedom of movement to satisfy the Swiss while also allowing Berne preferential access to the single market.Credit Suisse warned of a negative impact on Swiss growth prospects, foreign investment and job losses, adding that there would be problems finding the right staff for highly qualified jobs.There are several hundred thousand EU nationals living and working in Switzerland, mainly from Italy, Germany, Portugal and France, while some 450,000 Swiss also live and work in EU countries.One hundred days before elections to the European parliament, in which immigration will be a central issue, the populist right hailed the Swiss verdict as a template for the rest of the EU.Geert Wilders, the rightwing Dutch populist, called the Swiss result \"fantastic'' and called on the Netherlands to follow suit.Marine Le Pen, leader of France's National Front, said the same about France. \"This Swiss victory will reinforce the will of the French people to stop mass immigration,\" she said.In Germany, where Euroscepticism is much weaker, the new anti-single currency party, Alternative for Germany, demanded a referendum on immigration.And in Austria, Heinz-Christian Strache, leader of the far-right Freedom party, which is currently nudging the top of the opinion polls, called for the same.If mainstream leaders across Europe are alarmed at the implications of the Swiss vote, analysts said, it is also because they know similar results could be expected in several countries across the EU if single-issue plebiscites were held.Swiss voters have asked a big question of their country's place in Europe. They want fewer Europeans coming to live and work in their country. But the timing and the verdict of Sunday's plebiscite mean that for once Switzerland's direct democracy will echo well beyond its Alpine peaks and valleys.It will be heard particularly clearly in Britain where David Cameron has been proposing very similar measures to those supported by the Swiss \u2013 a cap on migration within the European Union and a dilution of one of the EU's basic liberties, the free movement of labour.Nowhere will the ensuing wrangle between Brussels and Berne be followed more closely than in London, because of the implications for Cameron's EU referendum and new-deal-for-the-UK campaign.On the EU side, in trying to resolve the Swiss conundrum an uppermost consideration will be to avoid any concessions on freedom of movement that would encourage British chutzpah in seeking to bend the EU to its will.No cherrypicking, can't have your cake and eat it, got to take the rough with the smooth. Such were the mantras from Brussels and Berlin on Monday following the Swiss shock. The message might as well be directed at Britain's Conservatives as at the Swiss.The two cases are very different. Britain is a (relatively) big country in Europe. Switzerland is small, if highly successful and wealthy. Switzerland is not in the EU. Britain is. But the same freedom of movement rules apply to both. Berne will now need to renegotiate the terms of its integration with the EU, just as Cameron insists he wants to renegotiate the terms of Britain's EU membership in order to put a winnable proposition to a Swiss-style plebiscite in 2017 if he is re-elected next year.Freedom of movement goes to the heart of the single market, the bit that Britain likes most about the EU. It is founded on four freedoms \u2013 of goods, services, capital, and labour. Britain has always been the single market's foremost champion, Margaret Thatcher to the fore. It remains so. But it wants to dilute one of its central premises.There is little evidence to suggest EU migration to Britain over the past decade has done anything but mildly boost economic performance and help the fiscal balance. Swiss economic analysis on Monday reached the same conclusion about the impact of the vote \u2013 that it would depress growth, hurt outside investment, damage exports.The main message from Brussels to the Swiss was that reversing freedom of movement inevitably entails rewriting the entire complex gamut of the confederation's legal relationship with the EU, not to Switzerland's advantage.The precedent is not a happy one for a Conservative party committed to free trade and the single market. But the popular Swiss verdict also feeds into the European zeitgeist, of hostility to foreigners, of scapegoating, of fears of jobs being lost to outsiders (in a country with the lowest jobless rate in Europe), of social services being abused by non-natives.The Swiss experience, over the next couple of years, may turn out to be salutary and chastening for a Britain and a Cameron government mulling its European options.Ian Traynor, Europe editor", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "European Union", "The far right", "France", "European commission", "World news", "Germany", "European elections", "Geert Wilders", "Marine Le Pen", "Angela Merkel", "Austria"], "title": "Switzerland faces 'difficult talks' with EU after immigration referendum"},{"date": "2014-02-14T18:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When Mario Da Rugna heard that Switzerland had voted to curb \"mass migration\", he was not so much disappointed as horrified. Da Rugna is head of human resources at Basel's university hospital, where 45% of staff, and 50% of doctors, do not hold a Swiss passport. His home country does not train enough surgeons and radiologists. Without foreigners, how will he look after his patients?\"We are told there will be contingencies, but no one has explained how they are meant to work,\" he said.Sunday's referendum on quotas for immigration was won by only 0.6 percentage points, yet the vote has sent shock waves through the continent. Cheered on by EU critics and anti-immigration parties such as Ukip and France's National Front, the outcome could not only embolden rightwing populists ahead of the European parliamentary elections in May, but also raises serious questions about Switzerland's bilateral agreements with the EU.The parliament now has three years to turn the referendum result into law. But foreign workers in Switzerland, or those considering moving here, may not have the same patience. Already Da Rugna has received an email from one member of his medical team who commutes from Germany every day, telling him how unwanted he suddenly feels. \"We have to be careful that this doesn't become a debate about numbers, but also about how we make foreigners in this country feel,\" Da Rugna said.Other employers in the area face a similar dilemma. At Roche, one of the pharmaceutical multinationals across the Rhine, 60% of employees are foreigners. Rates in construction and farming are roughly the same. Even Swiss football fans are scratching their heads over the effect of the referendum result: as a German TV programme showed, if you were to take players with a multicultural background out of the national team's last starting line-up, you would be left with a three-man team.\"It's a catastrophe,\" said Thomas Br\u00fcgger, a social education worker in his 40s. \"The best we can hope is that Switzerland will get a proper dressing down and people will realise what a mess we've got ourselves in.\"The great mystery remains why the Swiss felt the need to hold a referendum in the first place. This, after all, is a country with a strong multicultural tradition, which has more official languages than any other country in Europe and punches well above its weight in almost every other aspect too.The World Economic Forum ranks Switzerland top of its Human Capital Index: child mortality rates are among the lowest in the world, life expectancy is as high as Japan's. Unemployment, at 3.5%, is the lowest of any decent-sized country in Europe. Even the Swiss football team, ranked sixth in the latest Fifa listings and qualified for the World Cup, exceeds expectations.Switzerland does also have the second-highest percentage of foreign-born citizens in Europe, just after Luxembourg: a considerable 23%. But whether Switzerland is so successful in spite of, rather than because of, all these foreigners is far from clear. So why are the Swiss so worried about immigration?One of the intriguing aspects of the plebiscite was that it not only confirmed the existence of the \"R\u00f6sti curtain\" \u2013 a reference to the German Swiss potato dish that symbolises the old political divide between French-speaking and German-speaking Switzerland (French-speaking areas voted against quotas; German-speaking were divided, and the Italian-speaking canton of Ticino was in favour) but also a split between urban and rural areas.With the exception of the Tessin canton, which attracts a lot of immigration from Italy, people in towns where most of the foreigners live voted against curbing immigration \u2013 in the countryside, where Swiss nationals dominate, they voted for it. From Basel, it takes only a 15-minute train journey to cross the line: from the city, where only 39% voted in favour of the initiative, to Liestal in Basel region, where 50.6% welcomed it.\"We know we're being swamped,\" said a vendor at a roadside rotisserie near Liestal, \"Switzerland has started a revolution in Europe.\" Asked where those foreigners came from, and where they could be found in Liestal, he was more vague. He'd seen some Africans queuing at the job centre, and heard on the radio that Romanians would come to claim unemployment benefits \u2013 he was sure that was why the taxman had been cracking down on him recently.Thomas Wiesner, a technician who parked his van a few metres further down the road, said he had voted against in the referendum: \"We're a bit spoiled here when it comes to direct democracy.\" But he hoped the outcome would make the rest of Europe think harder about \"wage-dumping\", or offering lower wages than the norm, in a globalised economy. He himself didn't worry too much about Poles or Czechs taking his clients: \"People around here want to know you before they let you into their houses \u2013 they prefer Swiss technicians any time\".Even the party that proposed the referendum, the Swiss People's party (SVP), can be evasive when asked what they mean by \"mass immigration\". Over a coffee at Liestal's Hotel Engel, regional president Oskar St\u00fcrmer mentioned \"Poles who work in construction\" but couldn't name a business in the area where any were prevalent.Most of his arguments use the future tense: the referendum was above all, he said, about \"people who could come to settle here\".\"A lot of foreigners don't understand our society, which is very problematic in a federal system. Most Swiss would see their GP if they have an ailment \u2013 but foreigners tend to go straight to the hospital, so we've had to pay for the extra cost. It takes two to three generations for a foreigner to integrate\".Even opposition politicians show some grudging respect for the SVP's campaign. \"We underestimated them,\" says Basel's economic minister Christoph Brutschin, a social democrat. \"They ran a very polite campaign so the opposition retaliated politely. Then, only a few days before the vote, out came the more populist posters with the women in veils.\"Perhaps the most clever aspect of the SVP's strategy was that they rarely specified what kind of immigration they were talking about. \"They won the vote when they were allowed to use the term 'mass immigration' in the referendum text,\" said George Sheldon, a New York-born academic at Basel University. \"Who could possibly be for 'mass' anything?\"Sheldon argues that \"welfare tourism\" is generally an urban myth in Switzerland. Many foreigners tend to be exceptionally well qualified: more than half of migrants who got work permits here since the 1990s had a degree.\"People who come here have already been educated at the expense of other countries, and they are usually fairly young and healthy: they're topping up Switzerland's benefits system, but they're not taking anything out,\" said Sheldon. \"It's a win-win.\"In Basel, by far the largest group of foreign residents, more than a quarter, are Germans; another 36,000 commute from Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg every day. Two years ago, there was an uproar in the local media after Coop ran an advertising campaign that used the High German word for \"to barbecue\", grillen, rather than the Swiss German grillieren. Eventually, the retailer had to issue a new set of posters.\"There has long been a latent Germanophobia in Switzerland,\" said Daniel Binswanger, editor of the political weekly Das Magazin. \"We Swiss are polite and introvert, and the Germans are arrogant and loud, that's the cliche. Now a lot of Swiss people have German bosses, and it irritates them.\"This is the main difference between Switzerland and other countries where rightwing populists are causing a stir, such as Britain or France: in Switzerland it is not just the working classes but also the upper middle classes who are voicing anxiety about the effects of globalisation. What is to be seen is whether it is just another area in which Switzerland bucks the European trend \u2013 or a glimpse of the continent's future.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "European commission", "European Union", "European elections", "Politics", "The far right", "Global economy", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland mulls over implications for economy of vote to curb immigration"},{"date": "2014-02-28T20:59:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When a skier is stock-still halfway down a piste, it usually means they are frozen with fear. They are unlikely to have stopped to \"listen to the whispers of the mountain\" \u2013 unless they are on the Paradiso piste in Corviglia, just above St Moritz, Switzerland. Welcome to the world's first yoga piste. Only in St Moritz, right? You could be forgiven for dismissing ski yoga as the latest gimmick for people with more money than sense (and there are certainly plenty of those here).Holidays that combine skiing and yoga classes are nothing new, but doing yoga on skis takes the concept a step further. The Swiss yoga piste, also known as the chill-out slope, was dreamed up by Sabrina Nussbaum, a local ski instructor and yoga teacher. She noticed that her fellow ski instructors were taking up yoga after suffering knee and back injuries, and thought that everyone could benefit from skiing in a more \"yogic\" way.Sabrina has selected four particularly scenic sites at which to do eight asanas (yoga postures). The slope is a red run and the sites themselves are off-piste, so beginners would struggle to reach them, but really the postures can be done anywhere on the mountain. You can pick up a \"Yoga on Snow\" leaflet at the surrounding ski lifts and follow the routine for free.Or you can book a half- or full-day lesson with Sabrina or her colleague, Priska Hotz, both from the Suvretta Snowsports School \u2013 some clients book a week, or even a whole month, of ski yoga. I spent a day with Sabrina, which included about six hours on the slopes, plus a 90-minute yoga class in the evening. Before I started, I was stiff and sore from the previous day's skiing, my first in two years. I was also a little nervous, because I seemed to have forgotten all my technique.We started, appropriately, with a tadasana (mountain pose). I dropped my poles, stood up straight and closed my eyes. Sabrina told me to relax my feet and be aware of the mountain beneath them. It may have been the fresh air and sunshine, or the altitude, but I immediately felt relaxed and happy. After each pose, we skied for a while, applying the principles of the asana to the skiing. So first I tried to keep my feet flat and grounded, lifting my toes during difficult sections, rather than scrunching them up tight. It was incredible how much more control I had over my skis. Changing one simple thing, rather than trying to remember a dozen rules, was a revelation.We stopped on top of an easy run to work on prana, or life force. This involved covering my ears and concentrating on my breathing. We skied down with our ears still covered, focusing on breathing calmly \u2013 quite difficult when you can't hear other skiers whizzing up behind you. We worked on breathing only through the nose for wide, gentle turns, or using \"breath of fire\" (a powerful, rhythmic pattern) for short, fast turns. The most useful exercise was remembering to exhale during fast or stressful moments, rather than holding the breath and tensing up.At lunchtimes, an array of expensive slopeside restaurants cater to the resort's super-wealthy clientele. La Marmite, for example, which specialises in caviar and truffles and, at 2,486m, is Europe's highest gourmet restaurant \u2013 with prices to match. But we skied down to Clavatasch, a \"hidden\" restaurant near St Moritz's village neighbour, Celerina. The wooden building is a former cowshed and has a tiny kitchen serving cheap, local specialities such as barley soup \u2013 a tasty but suitably healthy dish. (It doesn't have a website \u2013 ask around for directions, though even some locals I spoke to had never heard of it.) Braulio, a herbal alpine liqueur, is a warming digestif that fires you up for an afternoon's skiing.Equally, St Moritz Dorf (the upper, main part of town) is full of designer shops, five-star hotels and exclusive restaurants. But St Moritz Bad, down by the lake, is a better choice for a cheaper trip. I was staying there at Hotel Piz, a friendly place with a great pizzeria and a lively bar full of locals watching football. Across the road is Veltlinerkeller, a rustic restaurant that serves the carb-heavy dishes typical of the region, such as pizzoccheri \u2013 buckwheat pasta ribbons with swiss chard, potato and more cheese than you would ordinarily eat in a month. It is great fuel for all the activities available in St Moritz, the birthplace of winter sports tourism. I tried snowshoeing and cross-country skiing, and you can channel your inner Winter Olympian with bobsleigh, skeleton, curling and ice-skating.Back on the slopes, we found a sheltered, sunny spot to do some sun salutations \u2013 a good way to warm up \u2013 then returned to the yoga piste for more skiing and assorted asanas: the powerful warrior pose; the muscle-loosening triangle stretch and forward bend; the tree pose for balance.Whereas the previous day I had felt stressed and tired after a few hours, now I was calm and energised \u2013 I didn't want to stop. But it was time for savasana, or relaxation, at a beautiful spot on the edge of the slope, overlooking a string of lakes in the Engadin valley. I lay on my back, feeling the sun on my face and my body supported by the fresh snow, listening to the swoosh of skiers and the whispered wind. Yoga on snow didn't feel like a gimmick \u2013 it felt like a whole different way of skiing.\u2022 Accommodation was provided by Hotel Piz (+41 81 832 11 11, piz-stmoritz.ch, doubles from \u00a3128 a night B&B). Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com) which flies from Heathrow, London City, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich from \u00a3132 return. Train travel was provided by Swiss Railways: a return ticket from the airport to any Swiss destination costs \u00a396 (swisstravelsystem.co.uk). Ski yoga tuition costs from \u00a360 for a half day, engadin.stmoritz.ch ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski-yoga in Switzerland: salute the slopes"},{"date": "2014-02-10T08:17:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Eurosceptic anti-immigrant movements across Europe received a boost on Sunday when Switzerland voted by the slimmest of margins to impose quotas on newcomers to the country, thrusting its relations with the EU into uncertainty.In a referendum mobilised by far-right populists demanding caps on immigration in a country where almost one in four of the population are immigrants, 50.4% of voters supported the measure, in a relatively high turnout of 56%.The vote split Switzerland east to west, with the francophone west voting against the quotas and the German-speaking east backing the clampdown.The European commission said it regretted the outcome of the Swiss vote and would need to review the impact on overall relations between Switzerland and the EU.\"This goes against the principle of free movement of people between the EU and Switzerland,\" the commission said.While Switzerland is not an EU member, it is closely integrated with the union and is a member of Europe's passport-free Schengen regime. The vote to cap immigration throws this into question, undermining several bilateral agreements between Brussels and Berne, and challenging the Schengen system since the caps will also apply to EU citizens who previously enjoyed unfettered travel and working rights in Switzerland under the open borders system.A little more than three months before elections to the European parliament, in which far-right anti-immigration populists are expected to make gains, the Swiss verdict is certain to galvanise the more extreme wings of European politics and chasten the mainstream.France's National Front, tipped to come first in the French European elections in May, was quick to congratulate the Swiss voters on their verdict. Similar anti-immigrant parties are doing well in the Netherlands, Austria and Scandinavia.The results may also be seized on in Britain, where David Cameron espouses similar policies of curbing freedom of movement within the EU and setting caps on those allowed to migrate from future new EU members.The situations are different: Switzerland is not in the EU but in Schengen, while Britain is an EU member but not part of the Schengen system. However, freedom of movement for EU citizens is a central pillar of the EU's single market and applies both to the union and to the Schengen countries.The Swiss yes vote came as a surprise since opinion polls had shown a majority against the quotas in a country that is one of the world's wealthiest and most successful, with a jobless rate of less than 4%, the lowest in Europe.The vote, organised by the arch-conservative and Eurosceptic Swiss People's party, raises the prospect of Switzerland having to quit the Schengen system, which it joined in 2002, and its citizens forfeiting passport-free travel across most of Europe.Brussels may also demand the renegotiation of several bilateral agreements with the Swiss regulating the neutral country's access to Europe's single market.About 80,000 EU citizens freely settle in Switzerland every year, most coming from Germany but with large numbers also coming from neighbouring Italy and France.The government opposed the quotas, as did Swiss business leaders. The government now has to come up with new legislation fleshing out the detail within three years.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European commission", "European elections"], "title": "Switzerland backs immigration quotas by slim margin"},{"date": "2014-02-10T19:19:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's key neighbours have warned that the country's close relationship with the European Union hinged on how it coped with the decision to scrap free movement for EU citizens.Berlin and Paris voiced dismay over Sunday's Swiss referendum, which decided by a thin majority to introduce quotas for migrants from the EU, scrapping a longstanding agreement with Brussels guaranteeing freedom of movement.The verdict shocked the European and Swiss elites as it overturned the key pact governing links between the EU and Switzerland, meaning a package of accords partly integrating the country in the EU without being a member could unravel.A spokesman for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said the vote's surprise outcome created \"substantial problems\". France's foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said the EU would need to review its relations with Switzerland because of the vote to curb EU citizens' rights.As anti-immigration campaigners across Europe took delight in the Swiss backlash against newcomers, it was clear that the government in Berne faces a dilemma. The fallout from the vote affects a range of agreements with Brussels that allow the Swiss open access to Europe's single market on everything from selling cheese to competing for public tenders to civil aviation, transport and research.The strongest warning to the Swiss came from Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Germany's foreign minister. \"Cherry-picking with the EU is not a sustainable strategy. The Swiss have damaged themselves with this result. The fair co-operation we have had in the past with Switzerland also includes observing the central fundamental decisions taken by the EU,\" he said.Freedom of movement is one of the four keystones of the single market. Switzerland's access to the market \u2013 the EU takes 60% of Swiss exports \u2013 is based on seven bilateral agreements from 1999, including the free movement pact. The package of seven agreements are interlinked, including guillotine clauses, which means that if one agreement is ditched, the whole package collapses.For Brussels, said a European commission spokeswoman, free movement is a \"sacred liberty. The ball is in the Swiss court. They have to decide what consequences to draw.\"Merkel's spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said there would need to be \"difficult talks\" with the Swiss.Markus Spillmann, editor of the Neue Z\u00fcrcher Zeitung in Zurich, said:\"The relationship between Switzerland and the EU is now completely open. There will certainly be no good for the economy and for prosperity in this country,\" he wrote. \"Inward-looking Switzerland has won. That's not good for a small, open, resources-poor country.\"Sunday's referendum, which passed by 50.3% of votes, was mounted by the populist conservative anti-immigration campaigners of the Swiss People's party. Mainstream politicians, the business community and most urban voters all opposed the immigration caps and were defeated.The EU and Switzerland are supposed to open negotiations on Wednesday on a new updated framework agreement regulating relations, which have been fraught in recent years because of disputes over banking secrecy and taxation.The referendum result obliges the Swiss government to cap immigration, but it does not stipulate how and Berne has three years to turn the voters' verdict into law, giving it time to negotiate with Brussels and other EU capitals.\"The referendum did not specify how these measures will be implemented. It only calls for upper bounds on immigration in order to fulfil economic needs,\" said Reto F\u00f6llmi, professor of international economics at the University of St Gallen. \"If there is any chance of getting the EU to agree to this, Switzerland must make huge concessions in the other fields of the bilateral negotiations.\"But it is difficult to see Brussels diluting freedom of movement to satisfy the Swiss while also allowing Berne preferential access to the single market.Credit Suisse warned of a negative impact on Swiss growth prospects, foreign investment and job losses, adding that there would be problems finding the right staff for highly qualified jobs.There are several hundred thousand EU nationals living and working in Switzerland, mainly from Italy, Germany, Portugal and France, while some 450,000 Swiss also live and work in EU countries.One hundred days before elections to the European parliament, in which immigration will be a central issue, the populist right hailed the Swiss verdict as a template for the rest of the EU.Geert Wilders, the rightwing Dutch populist, called the Swiss result \"fantastic'' and called on the Netherlands to follow suit.Marine Le Pen, leader of France's National Front, said the same about France. \"This Swiss victory will reinforce the will of the French people to stop mass immigration,\" she said.In Germany, where Euroscepticism is much weaker, the new anti-single currency party, Alternative for Germany, demanded a referendum on immigration.And in Austria, Heinz-Christian Strache, leader of the far-right Freedom party, which is currently nudging the top of the opinion polls, called for the same.If mainstream leaders across Europe are alarmed at the implications of the Swiss vote, analysts said, it is also because they know similar results could be expected in several countries across the EU if single-issue plebiscites were held.Swiss voters have asked a big question of their country's place in Europe. They want fewer Europeans coming to live and work in their country. But the timing and the verdict of Sunday's plebiscite mean that for once Switzerland's direct democracy will echo well beyond its Alpine peaks and valleys.It will be heard particularly clearly in Britain where David Cameron has been proposing very similar measures to those supported by the Swiss \u2013 a cap on migration within the European Union and a dilution of one of the EU's basic liberties, the free movement of labour.Nowhere will the ensuing wrangle between Brussels and Berne be followed more closely than in London, because of the implications for Cameron's EU referendum and new-deal-for-the-UK campaign.On the EU side, in trying to resolve the Swiss conundrum an uppermost consideration will be to avoid any concessions on freedom of movement that would encourage British chutzpah in seeking to bend the EU to its will.No cherrypicking, can't have your cake and eat it, got to take the rough with the smooth. Such were the mantras from Brussels and Berlin on Monday following the Swiss shock. The message might as well be directed at Britain's Conservatives as at the Swiss.The two cases are very different. Britain is a (relatively) big country in Europe. Switzerland is small, if highly successful and wealthy. Switzerland is not in the EU. Britain is. But the same freedom of movement rules apply to both. Berne will now need to renegotiate the terms of its integration with the EU, just as Cameron insists he wants to renegotiate the terms of Britain's EU membership in order to put a winnable proposition to a Swiss-style plebiscite in 2017 if he is re-elected next year.Freedom of movement goes to the heart of the single market, the bit that Britain likes most about the EU. It is founded on four freedoms \u2013 of goods, services, capital, and labour. Britain has always been the single market's foremost champion, Margaret Thatcher to the fore. It remains so. But it wants to dilute one of its central premises.There is little evidence to suggest EU migration to Britain over the past decade has done anything but mildly boost economic performance and help the fiscal balance. Swiss economic analysis on Monday reached the same conclusion about the impact of the vote \u2013 that it would depress growth, hurt outside investment, damage exports.The main message from Brussels to the Swiss was that reversing freedom of movement inevitably entails rewriting the entire complex gamut of the confederation's legal relationship with the EU, not to Switzerland's advantage.The precedent is not a happy one for a Conservative party committed to free trade and the single market. But the popular Swiss verdict also feeds into the European zeitgeist, of hostility to foreigners, of scapegoating, of fears of jobs being lost to outsiders (in a country with the lowest jobless rate in Europe), of social services being abused by non-natives.The Swiss experience, over the next couple of years, may turn out to be salutary and chastening for a Britain and a Cameron government mulling its European options.Ian Traynor, Europe editor", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "European Union", "The far right", "France", "European commission", "World news", "Germany", "European elections", "Geert Wilders", "Marine Le Pen", "Angela Merkel", "Austria"], "title": "Switzerland faces 'difficult talks' with EU after immigration referendum"},{"date": "2014-02-14T18:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When Mario Da Rugna heard that Switzerland had voted to curb \"mass migration\", he was not so much disappointed as horrified. Da Rugna is head of human resources at Basel's university hospital, where 45% of staff, and 50% of doctors, do not hold a Swiss passport. His home country does not train enough surgeons and radiologists. Without foreigners, how will he look after his patients?\"We are told there will be contingencies, but no one has explained how they are meant to work,\" he said.Sunday's referendum on quotas for immigration was won by only 0.6 percentage points, yet the vote has sent shock waves through the continent. Cheered on by EU critics and anti-immigration parties such as Ukip and France's National Front, the outcome could not only embolden rightwing populists ahead of the European parliamentary elections in May, but also raises serious questions about Switzerland's bilateral agreements with the EU.The parliament now has three years to turn the referendum result into law. But foreign workers in Switzerland, or those considering moving here, may not have the same patience. Already Da Rugna has received an email from one member of his medical team who commutes from Germany every day, telling him how unwanted he suddenly feels. \"We have to be careful that this doesn't become a debate about numbers, but also about how we make foreigners in this country feel,\" Da Rugna said.Other employers in the area face a similar dilemma. At Roche, one of the pharmaceutical multinationals across the Rhine, 60% of employees are foreigners. Rates in construction and farming are roughly the same. Even Swiss football fans are scratching their heads over the effect of the referendum result: as a German TV programme showed, if you were to take players with a multicultural background out of the national team's last starting line-up, you would be left with a three-man team.\"It's a catastrophe,\" said Thomas Br\u00fcgger, a social education worker in his 40s. \"The best we can hope is that Switzerland will get a proper dressing down and people will realise what a mess we've got ourselves in.\"The great mystery remains why the Swiss felt the need to hold a referendum in the first place. This, after all, is a country with a strong multicultural tradition, which has more official languages than any other country in Europe and punches well above its weight in almost every other aspect too.The World Economic Forum ranks Switzerland top of its Human Capital Index: child mortality rates are among the lowest in the world, life expectancy is as high as Japan's. Unemployment, at 3.5%, is the lowest of any decent-sized country in Europe. Even the Swiss football team, ranked sixth in the latest Fifa listings and qualified for the World Cup, exceeds expectations.Switzerland does also have the second-highest percentage of foreign-born citizens in Europe, just after Luxembourg: a considerable 23%. But whether Switzerland is so successful in spite of, rather than because of, all these foreigners is far from clear. So why are the Swiss so worried about immigration?One of the intriguing aspects of the plebiscite was that it not only confirmed the existence of the \"R\u00f6sti curtain\" \u2013 a reference to the German Swiss potato dish that symbolises the old political divide between French-speaking and German-speaking Switzerland (French-speaking areas voted against quotas; German-speaking were divided, and the Italian-speaking canton of Ticino was in favour) but also a split between urban and rural areas.With the exception of the Tessin canton, which attracts a lot of immigration from Italy, people in towns where most of the foreigners live voted against curbing immigration \u2013 in the countryside, where Swiss nationals dominate, they voted for it. From Basel, it takes only a 15-minute train journey to cross the line: from the city, where only 39% voted in favour of the initiative, to Liestal in Basel region, where 50.6% welcomed it.\"We know we're being swamped,\" said a vendor at a roadside rotisserie near Liestal, \"Switzerland has started a revolution in Europe.\" Asked where those foreigners came from, and where they could be found in Liestal, he was more vague. He'd seen some Africans queuing at the job centre, and heard on the radio that Romanians would come to claim unemployment benefits \u2013 he was sure that was why the taxman had been cracking down on him recently.Thomas Wiesner, a technician who parked his van a few metres further down the road, said he had voted against in the referendum: \"We're a bit spoiled here when it comes to direct democracy.\" But he hoped the outcome would make the rest of Europe think harder about \"wage-dumping\", or offering lower wages than the norm, in a globalised economy. He himself didn't worry too much about Poles or Czechs taking his clients: \"People around here want to know you before they let you into their houses \u2013 they prefer Swiss technicians any time\".Even the party that proposed the referendum, the Swiss People's party (SVP), can be evasive when asked what they mean by \"mass immigration\". Over a coffee at Liestal's Hotel Engel, regional president Oskar St\u00fcrmer mentioned \"Poles who work in construction\" but couldn't name a business in the area where any were prevalent.Most of his arguments use the future tense: the referendum was above all, he said, about \"people who could come to settle here\".\"A lot of foreigners don't understand our society, which is very problematic in a federal system. Most Swiss would see their GP if they have an ailment \u2013 but foreigners tend to go straight to the hospital, so we've had to pay for the extra cost. It takes two to three generations for a foreigner to integrate\".Even opposition politicians show some grudging respect for the SVP's campaign. \"We underestimated them,\" says Basel's economic minister Christoph Brutschin, a social democrat. \"They ran a very polite campaign so the opposition retaliated politely. Then, only a few days before the vote, out came the more populist posters with the women in veils.\"Perhaps the most clever aspect of the SVP's strategy was that they rarely specified what kind of immigration they were talking about. \"They won the vote when they were allowed to use the term 'mass immigration' in the referendum text,\" said George Sheldon, a New York-born academic at Basel University. \"Who could possibly be for 'mass' anything?\"Sheldon argues that \"welfare tourism\" is generally an urban myth in Switzerland. Many foreigners tend to be exceptionally well qualified: more than half of migrants who got work permits here since the 1990s had a degree.\"People who come here have already been educated at the expense of other countries, and they are usually fairly young and healthy: they're topping up Switzerland's benefits system, but they're not taking anything out,\" said Sheldon. \"It's a win-win.\"In Basel, by far the largest group of foreign residents, more than a quarter, are Germans; another 36,000 commute from Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg every day. Two years ago, there was an uproar in the local media after Coop ran an advertising campaign that used the High German word for \"to barbecue\", grillen, rather than the Swiss German grillieren. Eventually, the retailer had to issue a new set of posters.\"There has long been a latent Germanophobia in Switzerland,\" said Daniel Binswanger, editor of the political weekly Das Magazin. \"We Swiss are polite and introvert, and the Germans are arrogant and loud, that's the cliche. Now a lot of Swiss people have German bosses, and it irritates them.\"This is the main difference between Switzerland and other countries where rightwing populists are causing a stir, such as Britain or France: in Switzerland it is not just the working classes but also the upper middle classes who are voicing anxiety about the effects of globalisation. What is to be seen is whether it is just another area in which Switzerland bucks the European trend \u2013 or a glimpse of the continent's future.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "European commission", "European Union", "European elections", "Politics", "The far right", "Global economy", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland mulls over implications for economy of vote to curb immigration"},{"date": "2014-01-21T23:51:17Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "William Hague's bags were packed ahead of his departure , on Tuesday afternoon, for the Geneva II peace talks on Syria, negotiations between intractable and bitterly divided parties that he anticipated would be \"tortuous\". So he took a few moments to get some practice in with foreign affairs questions.They started with the easy stuff: the persecution of religious minorities in the Middle East, the Kashmir question, the oppression of LGBT people in Russia. Then Tory backbencher Christopher Pincher cut to the chase. How was the foreign secretary getting on with reforming the principle of free movement in the EU, specifically the \"broken system\" that allowed \"mass population movement\" around Europe?Obviously, Hague said, he had stressed to his EU colleagues that the \"long-term sustainability\" of the free movement principle demanded reforms of welfare rules. In fact the government had recently secured an \"important negotiating success\" in giving national governments more say over fisheries policy.That brought Labour's Ben Bradshaw to his feet. \"The right honourable gentleman will have noticed that fish swim around and are no respecters of national boundaries,\" he said. This was clearly an important and underexplored aspect of European population movement. They come here by the shoal, gobble up our plankton, before swimming off without a glug of thanks to be scooped up by a French trawler \u2026Didn't that suggest, said Bradshaw, getting to his point, that easy international cooperation, rather than a \"chaotic\" series of bilateral arrangements, was the way to deal with our neighbours?\"The observation that fish swim around is not among the most devastating revelations to be heard in the House of Commons recently,\" said Hague, but he took the point.Conservative Anne McIntosh raised the obvious next question. \"Is the foreign secretary, like me, a fan of The Bridge, the Danish/Swedish drama currently on BBC4 on Saturday evening?\" The Danish/Swedish model, she explained, was at the heart of fishery reform. \"What other models might he alight on in that regard?\"\"Well, so many Danish/Swedish models on a Saturday evening must be very enjoyable,\" said Hague, \"but I cannot say that I have been watching that programme.\" (Hang on \u2013 how does the foreign secretary know about the enjoyability or otherwise of Scandinavian models? Does Ffion Hague know about this? We must earnestly hope he has resisted the urge to alight on any models, Danish/Swedish or otherwise.)For now Hague's thoughts, and those of the other MPs, were tending towards Geneva \u2013 a little unfortunate, perhaps, since Wednesday's opening sessions of the peace conference are to be held 60 miles away in Montreux (does it say something troubling about the UN's negotiating abilities that it couldn't manage to secure enough hotel rooms in the Swiss city thanks to a luxury watch fair?).What, asked Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign secretary, were the government's \"realistic ambitions\" for the conference? Confidence measures such as prisoner releases and local ceasefires \"would assist enormously\", said Hague, with no little understatement.One MP asked if the government would ensure that the voices of Christians and other religious minorities were heard during the talks. It was important not to neglect relations with Iran, despite the \"debacle\" of their disinvitation to the negotiations, stressed another.And how was he getting on securing that comprehensive agreement with Iran over its nuclear programme, wondered a third. Achieving that, said the foreign secretary, would be \"formidably difficult\".First, peace in Syria.", "tags": ["William Hague", "House of Commons", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "UK news", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "William Hague's warm-up for the Geneva peace talks on Syria"},{"date": "2014-02-28T20:59:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When a skier is stock-still halfway down a piste, it usually means they are frozen with fear. They are unlikely to have stopped to \"listen to the whispers of the mountain\" \u2013 unless they are on the Paradiso piste in Corviglia, just above St Moritz, Switzerland. Welcome to the world's first yoga piste. Only in St Moritz, right? You could be forgiven for dismissing ski yoga as the latest gimmick for people with more money than sense (and there are certainly plenty of those here).Holidays that combine skiing and yoga classes are nothing new, but doing yoga on skis takes the concept a step further. The Swiss yoga piste, also known as the chill-out slope, was dreamed up by Sabrina Nussbaum, a local ski instructor and yoga teacher. She noticed that her fellow ski instructors were taking up yoga after suffering knee and back injuries, and thought that everyone could benefit from skiing in a more \"yogic\" way.Sabrina has selected four particularly scenic sites at which to do eight asanas (yoga postures). The slope is a red run and the sites themselves are off-piste, so beginners would struggle to reach them, but really the postures can be done anywhere on the mountain. You can pick up a \"Yoga on Snow\" leaflet at the surrounding ski lifts and follow the routine for free.Or you can book a half- or full-day lesson with Sabrina or her colleague, Priska Hotz, both from the Suvretta Snowsports School \u2013 some clients book a week, or even a whole month, of ski yoga. I spent a day with Sabrina, which included about six hours on the slopes, plus a 90-minute yoga class in the evening. Before I started, I was stiff and sore from the previous day's skiing, my first in two years. I was also a little nervous, because I seemed to have forgotten all my technique.We started, appropriately, with a tadasana (mountain pose). I dropped my poles, stood up straight and closed my eyes. Sabrina told me to relax my feet and be aware of the mountain beneath them. It may have been the fresh air and sunshine, or the altitude, but I immediately felt relaxed and happy. After each pose, we skied for a while, applying the principles of the asana to the skiing. So first I tried to keep my feet flat and grounded, lifting my toes during difficult sections, rather than scrunching them up tight. It was incredible how much more control I had over my skis. Changing one simple thing, rather than trying to remember a dozen rules, was a revelation.We stopped on top of an easy run to work on prana, or life force. This involved covering my ears and concentrating on my breathing. We skied down with our ears still covered, focusing on breathing calmly \u2013 quite difficult when you can't hear other skiers whizzing up behind you. We worked on breathing only through the nose for wide, gentle turns, or using \"breath of fire\" (a powerful, rhythmic pattern) for short, fast turns. The most useful exercise was remembering to exhale during fast or stressful moments, rather than holding the breath and tensing up.At lunchtimes, an array of expensive slopeside restaurants cater to the resort's super-wealthy clientele. La Marmite, for example, which specialises in caviar and truffles and, at 2,486m, is Europe's highest gourmet restaurant \u2013 with prices to match. But we skied down to Clavatasch, a \"hidden\" restaurant near St Moritz's village neighbour, Celerina. The wooden building is a former cowshed and has a tiny kitchen serving cheap, local specialities such as barley soup \u2013 a tasty but suitably healthy dish. (It doesn't have a website \u2013 ask around for directions, though even some locals I spoke to had never heard of it.) Braulio, a herbal alpine liqueur, is a warming digestif that fires you up for an afternoon's skiing.Equally, St Moritz Dorf (the upper, main part of town) is full of designer shops, five-star hotels and exclusive restaurants. But St Moritz Bad, down by the lake, is a better choice for a cheaper trip. I was staying there at Hotel Piz, a friendly place with a great pizzeria and a lively bar full of locals watching football. Across the road is Veltlinerkeller, a rustic restaurant that serves the carb-heavy dishes typical of the region, such as pizzoccheri \u2013 buckwheat pasta ribbons with swiss chard, potato and more cheese than you would ordinarily eat in a month. It is great fuel for all the activities available in St Moritz, the birthplace of winter sports tourism. I tried snowshoeing and cross-country skiing, and you can channel your inner Winter Olympian with bobsleigh, skeleton, curling and ice-skating.Back on the slopes, we found a sheltered, sunny spot to do some sun salutations \u2013 a good way to warm up \u2013 then returned to the yoga piste for more skiing and assorted asanas: the powerful warrior pose; the muscle-loosening triangle stretch and forward bend; the tree pose for balance.Whereas the previous day I had felt stressed and tired after a few hours, now I was calm and energised \u2013 I didn't want to stop. But it was time for savasana, or relaxation, at a beautiful spot on the edge of the slope, overlooking a string of lakes in the Engadin valley. I lay on my back, feeling the sun on my face and my body supported by the fresh snow, listening to the swoosh of skiers and the whispered wind. Yoga on snow didn't feel like a gimmick \u2013 it felt like a whole different way of skiing.\u2022 Accommodation was provided by Hotel Piz (+41 81 832 11 11, piz-stmoritz.ch, doubles from \u00a3128 a night B&B). Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com) which flies from Heathrow, London City, Birmingham and Manchester to Zurich from \u00a3132 return. Train travel was provided by Swiss Railways: a return ticket from the airport to any Swiss destination costs \u00a396 (swisstravelsystem.co.uk). Ski yoga tuition costs from \u00a360 for a half day, engadin.stmoritz.ch ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Yoga holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Ski-yoga in Switzerland: salute the slopes"},{"date": "2014-02-10T08:17:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Eurosceptic anti-immigrant movements across Europe received a boost on Sunday when Switzerland voted by the slimmest of margins to impose quotas on newcomers to the country, thrusting its relations with the EU into uncertainty.In a referendum mobilised by far-right populists demanding caps on immigration in a country where almost one in four of the population are immigrants, 50.4% of voters supported the measure, in a relatively high turnout of 56%.The vote split Switzerland east to west, with the francophone west voting against the quotas and the German-speaking east backing the clampdown.The European commission said it regretted the outcome of the Swiss vote and would need to review the impact on overall relations between Switzerland and the EU.\"This goes against the principle of free movement of people between the EU and Switzerland,\" the commission said.While Switzerland is not an EU member, it is closely integrated with the union and is a member of Europe's passport-free Schengen regime. The vote to cap immigration throws this into question, undermining several bilateral agreements between Brussels and Berne, and challenging the Schengen system since the caps will also apply to EU citizens who previously enjoyed unfettered travel and working rights in Switzerland under the open borders system.A little more than three months before elections to the European parliament, in which far-right anti-immigration populists are expected to make gains, the Swiss verdict is certain to galvanise the more extreme wings of European politics and chasten the mainstream.France's National Front, tipped to come first in the French European elections in May, was quick to congratulate the Swiss voters on their verdict. Similar anti-immigrant parties are doing well in the Netherlands, Austria and Scandinavia.The results may also be seized on in Britain, where David Cameron espouses similar policies of curbing freedom of movement within the EU and setting caps on those allowed to migrate from future new EU members.The situations are different: Switzerland is not in the EU but in Schengen, while Britain is an EU member but not part of the Schengen system. However, freedom of movement for EU citizens is a central pillar of the EU's single market and applies both to the union and to the Schengen countries.The Swiss yes vote came as a surprise since opinion polls had shown a majority against the quotas in a country that is one of the world's wealthiest and most successful, with a jobless rate of less than 4%, the lowest in Europe.The vote, organised by the arch-conservative and Eurosceptic Swiss People's party, raises the prospect of Switzerland having to quit the Schengen system, which it joined in 2002, and its citizens forfeiting passport-free travel across most of Europe.Brussels may also demand the renegotiation of several bilateral agreements with the Swiss regulating the neutral country's access to Europe's single market.About 80,000 EU citizens freely settle in Switzerland every year, most coming from Germany but with large numbers also coming from neighbouring Italy and France.The government opposed the quotas, as did Swiss business leaders. The government now has to come up with new legislation fleshing out the detail within three years.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "European Union", "European commission", "European elections"], "title": "Switzerland backs immigration quotas by slim margin"},{"date": "2014-02-10T19:19:00Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland's key neighbours have warned that the country's close relationship with the European Union hinged on how it coped with the decision to scrap free movement for EU citizens.Berlin and Paris voiced dismay over Sunday's Swiss referendum, which decided by a thin majority to introduce quotas for migrants from the EU, scrapping a longstanding agreement with Brussels guaranteeing freedom of movement.The verdict shocked the European and Swiss elites as it overturned the key pact governing links between the EU and Switzerland, meaning a package of accords partly integrating the country in the EU without being a member could unravel.A spokesman for the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, said the vote's surprise outcome created \"substantial problems\". France's foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, said the EU would need to review its relations with Switzerland because of the vote to curb EU citizens' rights.As anti-immigration campaigners across Europe took delight in the Swiss backlash against newcomers, it was clear that the government in Berne faces a dilemma. The fallout from the vote affects a range of agreements with Brussels that allow the Swiss open access to Europe's single market on everything from selling cheese to competing for public tenders to civil aviation, transport and research.The strongest warning to the Swiss came from Frank-Walter Steinmeier, Germany's foreign minister. \"Cherry-picking with the EU is not a sustainable strategy. The Swiss have damaged themselves with this result. The fair co-operation we have had in the past with Switzerland also includes observing the central fundamental decisions taken by the EU,\" he said.Freedom of movement is one of the four keystones of the single market. Switzerland's access to the market \u2013 the EU takes 60% of Swiss exports \u2013 is based on seven bilateral agreements from 1999, including the free movement pact. The package of seven agreements are interlinked, including guillotine clauses, which means that if one agreement is ditched, the whole package collapses.For Brussels, said a European commission spokeswoman, free movement is a \"sacred liberty. The ball is in the Swiss court. They have to decide what consequences to draw.\"Merkel's spokesman, Steffen Seibert, said there would need to be \"difficult talks\" with the Swiss.Markus Spillmann, editor of the Neue Z\u00fcrcher Zeitung in Zurich, said:\"The relationship between Switzerland and the EU is now completely open. There will certainly be no good for the economy and for prosperity in this country,\" he wrote. \"Inward-looking Switzerland has won. That's not good for a small, open, resources-poor country.\"Sunday's referendum, which passed by 50.3% of votes, was mounted by the populist conservative anti-immigration campaigners of the Swiss People's party. Mainstream politicians, the business community and most urban voters all opposed the immigration caps and were defeated.The EU and Switzerland are supposed to open negotiations on Wednesday on a new updated framework agreement regulating relations, which have been fraught in recent years because of disputes over banking secrecy and taxation.The referendum result obliges the Swiss government to cap immigration, but it does not stipulate how and Berne has three years to turn the voters' verdict into law, giving it time to negotiate with Brussels and other EU capitals.\"The referendum did not specify how these measures will be implemented. It only calls for upper bounds on immigration in order to fulfil economic needs,\" said Reto F\u00f6llmi, professor of international economics at the University of St Gallen. \"If there is any chance of getting the EU to agree to this, Switzerland must make huge concessions in the other fields of the bilateral negotiations.\"But it is difficult to see Brussels diluting freedom of movement to satisfy the Swiss while also allowing Berne preferential access to the single market.Credit Suisse warned of a negative impact on Swiss growth prospects, foreign investment and job losses, adding that there would be problems finding the right staff for highly qualified jobs.There are several hundred thousand EU nationals living and working in Switzerland, mainly from Italy, Germany, Portugal and France, while some 450,000 Swiss also live and work in EU countries.One hundred days before elections to the European parliament, in which immigration will be a central issue, the populist right hailed the Swiss verdict as a template for the rest of the EU.Geert Wilders, the rightwing Dutch populist, called the Swiss result \"fantastic'' and called on the Netherlands to follow suit.Marine Le Pen, leader of France's National Front, said the same about France. \"This Swiss victory will reinforce the will of the French people to stop mass immigration,\" she said.In Germany, where Euroscepticism is much weaker, the new anti-single currency party, Alternative for Germany, demanded a referendum on immigration.And in Austria, Heinz-Christian Strache, leader of the far-right Freedom party, which is currently nudging the top of the opinion polls, called for the same.If mainstream leaders across Europe are alarmed at the implications of the Swiss vote, analysts said, it is also because they know similar results could be expected in several countries across the EU if single-issue plebiscites were held.Swiss voters have asked a big question of their country's place in Europe. They want fewer Europeans coming to live and work in their country. But the timing and the verdict of Sunday's plebiscite mean that for once Switzerland's direct democracy will echo well beyond its Alpine peaks and valleys.It will be heard particularly clearly in Britain where David Cameron has been proposing very similar measures to those supported by the Swiss \u2013 a cap on migration within the European Union and a dilution of one of the EU's basic liberties, the free movement of labour.Nowhere will the ensuing wrangle between Brussels and Berne be followed more closely than in London, because of the implications for Cameron's EU referendum and new-deal-for-the-UK campaign.On the EU side, in trying to resolve the Swiss conundrum an uppermost consideration will be to avoid any concessions on freedom of movement that would encourage British chutzpah in seeking to bend the EU to its will.No cherrypicking, can't have your cake and eat it, got to take the rough with the smooth. Such were the mantras from Brussels and Berlin on Monday following the Swiss shock. The message might as well be directed at Britain's Conservatives as at the Swiss.The two cases are very different. Britain is a (relatively) big country in Europe. Switzerland is small, if highly successful and wealthy. Switzerland is not in the EU. Britain is. But the same freedom of movement rules apply to both. Berne will now need to renegotiate the terms of its integration with the EU, just as Cameron insists he wants to renegotiate the terms of Britain's EU membership in order to put a winnable proposition to a Swiss-style plebiscite in 2017 if he is re-elected next year.Freedom of movement goes to the heart of the single market, the bit that Britain likes most about the EU. It is founded on four freedoms \u2013 of goods, services, capital, and labour. Britain has always been the single market's foremost champion, Margaret Thatcher to the fore. It remains so. But it wants to dilute one of its central premises.There is little evidence to suggest EU migration to Britain over the past decade has done anything but mildly boost economic performance and help the fiscal balance. Swiss economic analysis on Monday reached the same conclusion about the impact of the vote \u2013 that it would depress growth, hurt outside investment, damage exports.The main message from Brussels to the Swiss was that reversing freedom of movement inevitably entails rewriting the entire complex gamut of the confederation's legal relationship with the EU, not to Switzerland's advantage.The precedent is not a happy one for a Conservative party committed to free trade and the single market. But the popular Swiss verdict also feeds into the European zeitgeist, of hostility to foreigners, of scapegoating, of fears of jobs being lost to outsiders (in a country with the lowest jobless rate in Europe), of social services being abused by non-natives.The Swiss experience, over the next couple of years, may turn out to be salutary and chastening for a Britain and a Cameron government mulling its European options.Ian Traynor, Europe editor", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "European Union", "The far right", "France", "European commission", "World news", "Germany", "European elections", "Geert Wilders", "Marine Le Pen", "Angela Merkel", "Austria"], "title": "Switzerland faces 'difficult talks' with EU after immigration referendum"},{"date": "2014-02-14T18:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When Mario Da Rugna heard that Switzerland had voted to curb \"mass migration\", he was not so much disappointed as horrified. Da Rugna is head of human resources at Basel's university hospital, where 45% of staff, and 50% of doctors, do not hold a Swiss passport. His home country does not train enough surgeons and radiologists. Without foreigners, how will he look after his patients?\"We are told there will be contingencies, but no one has explained how they are meant to work,\" he said.Sunday's referendum on quotas for immigration was won by only 0.6 percentage points, yet the vote has sent shock waves through the continent. Cheered on by EU critics and anti-immigration parties such as Ukip and France's National Front, the outcome could not only embolden rightwing populists ahead of the European parliamentary elections in May, but also raises serious questions about Switzerland's bilateral agreements with the EU.The parliament now has three years to turn the referendum result into law. But foreign workers in Switzerland, or those considering moving here, may not have the same patience. Already Da Rugna has received an email from one member of his medical team who commutes from Germany every day, telling him how unwanted he suddenly feels. \"We have to be careful that this doesn't become a debate about numbers, but also about how we make foreigners in this country feel,\" Da Rugna said.Other employers in the area face a similar dilemma. At Roche, one of the pharmaceutical multinationals across the Rhine, 60% of employees are foreigners. Rates in construction and farming are roughly the same. Even Swiss football fans are scratching their heads over the effect of the referendum result: as a German TV programme showed, if you were to take players with a multicultural background out of the national team's last starting line-up, you would be left with a three-man team.\"It's a catastrophe,\" said Thomas Br\u00fcgger, a social education worker in his 40s. \"The best we can hope is that Switzerland will get a proper dressing down and people will realise what a mess we've got ourselves in.\"The great mystery remains why the Swiss felt the need to hold a referendum in the first place. This, after all, is a country with a strong multicultural tradition, which has more official languages than any other country in Europe and punches well above its weight in almost every other aspect too.The World Economic Forum ranks Switzerland top of its Human Capital Index: child mortality rates are among the lowest in the world, life expectancy is as high as Japan's. Unemployment, at 3.5%, is the lowest of any decent-sized country in Europe. Even the Swiss football team, ranked sixth in the latest Fifa listings and qualified for the World Cup, exceeds expectations.Switzerland does also have the second-highest percentage of foreign-born citizens in Europe, just after Luxembourg: a considerable 23%. But whether Switzerland is so successful in spite of, rather than because of, all these foreigners is far from clear. So why are the Swiss so worried about immigration?One of the intriguing aspects of the plebiscite was that it not only confirmed the existence of the \"R\u00f6sti curtain\" \u2013 a reference to the German Swiss potato dish that symbolises the old political divide between French-speaking and German-speaking Switzerland (French-speaking areas voted against quotas; German-speaking were divided, and the Italian-speaking canton of Ticino was in favour) but also a split between urban and rural areas.With the exception of the Tessin canton, which attracts a lot of immigration from Italy, people in towns where most of the foreigners live voted against curbing immigration \u2013 in the countryside, where Swiss nationals dominate, they voted for it. From Basel, it takes only a 15-minute train journey to cross the line: from the city, where only 39% voted in favour of the initiative, to Liestal in Basel region, where 50.6% welcomed it.\"We know we're being swamped,\" said a vendor at a roadside rotisserie near Liestal, \"Switzerland has started a revolution in Europe.\" Asked where those foreigners came from, and where they could be found in Liestal, he was more vague. He'd seen some Africans queuing at the job centre, and heard on the radio that Romanians would come to claim unemployment benefits \u2013 he was sure that was why the taxman had been cracking down on him recently.Thomas Wiesner, a technician who parked his van a few metres further down the road, said he had voted against in the referendum: \"We're a bit spoiled here when it comes to direct democracy.\" But he hoped the outcome would make the rest of Europe think harder about \"wage-dumping\", or offering lower wages than the norm, in a globalised economy. He himself didn't worry too much about Poles or Czechs taking his clients: \"People around here want to know you before they let you into their houses \u2013 they prefer Swiss technicians any time\".Even the party that proposed the referendum, the Swiss People's party (SVP), can be evasive when asked what they mean by \"mass immigration\". Over a coffee at Liestal's Hotel Engel, regional president Oskar St\u00fcrmer mentioned \"Poles who work in construction\" but couldn't name a business in the area where any were prevalent.Most of his arguments use the future tense: the referendum was above all, he said, about \"people who could come to settle here\".\"A lot of foreigners don't understand our society, which is very problematic in a federal system. Most Swiss would see their GP if they have an ailment \u2013 but foreigners tend to go straight to the hospital, so we've had to pay for the extra cost. It takes two to three generations for a foreigner to integrate\".Even opposition politicians show some grudging respect for the SVP's campaign. \"We underestimated them,\" says Basel's economic minister Christoph Brutschin, a social democrat. \"They ran a very polite campaign so the opposition retaliated politely. Then, only a few days before the vote, out came the more populist posters with the women in veils.\"Perhaps the most clever aspect of the SVP's strategy was that they rarely specified what kind of immigration they were talking about. \"They won the vote when they were allowed to use the term 'mass immigration' in the referendum text,\" said George Sheldon, a New York-born academic at Basel University. \"Who could possibly be for 'mass' anything?\"Sheldon argues that \"welfare tourism\" is generally an urban myth in Switzerland. Many foreigners tend to be exceptionally well qualified: more than half of migrants who got work permits here since the 1990s had a degree.\"People who come here have already been educated at the expense of other countries, and they are usually fairly young and healthy: they're topping up Switzerland's benefits system, but they're not taking anything out,\" said Sheldon. \"It's a win-win.\"In Basel, by far the largest group of foreign residents, more than a quarter, are Germans; another 36,000 commute from Baden-W\u00fcrttemberg every day. Two years ago, there was an uproar in the local media after Coop ran an advertising campaign that used the High German word for \"to barbecue\", grillen, rather than the Swiss German grillieren. Eventually, the retailer had to issue a new set of posters.\"There has long been a latent Germanophobia in Switzerland,\" said Daniel Binswanger, editor of the political weekly Das Magazin. \"We Swiss are polite and introvert, and the Germans are arrogant and loud, that's the cliche. Now a lot of Swiss people have German bosses, and it irritates them.\"This is the main difference between Switzerland and other countries where rightwing populists are causing a stir, such as Britain or France: in Switzerland it is not just the working classes but also the upper middle classes who are voicing anxiety about the effects of globalisation. What is to be seen is whether it is just another area in which Switzerland bucks the European trend \u2013 or a glimpse of the continent's future.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "European commission", "European Union", "European elections", "Politics", "The far right", "Global economy", "Economics", "Business"], "title": "Switzerland mulls over implications for economy of vote to curb immigration"},{"date": "2014-01-21T23:51:17Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "William Hague's bags were packed ahead of his departure , on Tuesday afternoon, for the Geneva II peace talks on Syria, negotiations between intractable and bitterly divided parties that he anticipated would be \"tortuous\". So he took a few moments to get some practice in with foreign affairs questions.They started with the easy stuff: the persecution of religious minorities in the Middle East, the Kashmir question, the oppression of LGBT people in Russia. Then Tory backbencher Christopher Pincher cut to the chase. How was the foreign secretary getting on with reforming the principle of free movement in the EU, specifically the \"broken system\" that allowed \"mass population movement\" around Europe?Obviously, Hague said, he had stressed to his EU colleagues that the \"long-term sustainability\" of the free movement principle demanded reforms of welfare rules. In fact the government had recently secured an \"important negotiating success\" in giving national governments more say over fisheries policy.That brought Labour's Ben Bradshaw to his feet. \"The right honourable gentleman will have noticed that fish swim around and are no respecters of national boundaries,\" he said. This was clearly an important and underexplored aspect of European population movement. They come here by the shoal, gobble up our plankton, before swimming off without a glug of thanks to be scooped up by a French trawler \u2026Didn't that suggest, said Bradshaw, getting to his point, that easy international cooperation, rather than a \"chaotic\" series of bilateral arrangements, was the way to deal with our neighbours?\"The observation that fish swim around is not among the most devastating revelations to be heard in the House of Commons recently,\" said Hague, but he took the point.Conservative Anne McIntosh raised the obvious next question. \"Is the foreign secretary, like me, a fan of The Bridge, the Danish/Swedish drama currently on BBC4 on Saturday evening?\" The Danish/Swedish model, she explained, was at the heart of fishery reform. \"What other models might he alight on in that regard?\"\"Well, so many Danish/Swedish models on a Saturday evening must be very enjoyable,\" said Hague, \"but I cannot say that I have been watching that programme.\" (Hang on \u2013 how does the foreign secretary know about the enjoyability or otherwise of Scandinavian models? Does Ffion Hague know about this? We must earnestly hope he has resisted the urge to alight on any models, Danish/Swedish or otherwise.)For now Hague's thoughts, and those of the other MPs, were tending towards Geneva \u2013 a little unfortunate, perhaps, since Wednesday's opening sessions of the peace conference are to be held 60 miles away in Montreux (does it say something troubling about the UN's negotiating abilities that it couldn't manage to secure enough hotel rooms in the Swiss city thanks to a luxury watch fair?).What, asked Douglas Alexander, the shadow foreign secretary, were the government's \"realistic ambitions\" for the conference? Confidence measures such as prisoner releases and local ceasefires \"would assist enormously\", said Hague, with no little understatement.One MP asked if the government would ensure that the voices of Christians and other religious minorities were heard during the talks. It was important not to neglect relations with Iran, despite the \"debacle\" of their disinvitation to the negotiations, stressed another.And how was he getting on securing that comprehensive agreement with Iran over its nuclear programme, wondered a third. Achieving that, said the foreign secretary, would be \"formidably difficult\".First, peace in Syria.", "tags": ["William Hague", "House of Commons", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "UK news", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news"], "title": "William Hague's warm-up for the Geneva peace talks on Syria"},{"date": "2014-02-27T20:28:28Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Ukraine's interim authorities officially formed a new government on Thursday, with one eye on events in Crimea and another on trying to stabilise the country's disastrous economic situation.As President Viktor Yanukovych apparently surfaced in Russia, claiming to still be the president and promising a press conference on Friday, Ukraine's parliament set about taking measures to recover some of the billions of dollars they say went missing under his kleptocratic regime.The new government features some old faces but also has places for a number of people instrumental in the protest movement over the past three months. The new youth minister is Dmytro Bulatov, who was kidnapped and tortured last month by thugs apparently linked to the regime, while the anti-corruption committee will be headed by Tetiana Chornovol, an investigative journalist who was also beaten to within an inch of her life on the outskirts of Kiev in December.The parliament approved Arseniy Yatsenyuk, a key member of former prime minister Yulia Tymoshenko's party, as prime minister. Yatsenyuk, who was previously foreign minister, was one of the three main protest leaders of the past three months. He began his first speech in office by calling for a minute's silence for those who died in last week's violence.Yatsenyuk stressed the enormity of the task facing the new government and said joining it could be akin to political suicide, given the tough economic times that are likely to be ahead.\"I told everyone who is coming into this new government that they are effectively ending their political career by doing so. But we need to think about how we can save the country,\" Yatsenyuk said.Oleksandr Shlapak, the new finance minister, said he hoped an International Monetary Fund mission would visit Ukraine next week to hammer out the details of a $15bn package for the struggling economy. The hryvnia, Ukraine's currency, hit a new low on Thursday . It has now lost more than 20% of its value this year.Speaking in parliament, Yatsenyuk said that the former government had left the country with $75bn of debts. \"Over $20bn of gold reserve were embezzled. They took $37bn of loans that disappeared,\" Yatsenyuk said. \"Around $70bn was moved to offshore accounts from Ukraine's financial system in the last three years,\" he claimed.Rostyslav Pavlenko, an MP from the UDAR party of former boxer Vitali Klitschko, said that all cases of suspected money laundering and all offshore accounts of former government officials should be investigated, with the aim of repatriating the funds to Ukraine.\"The money in Yanukovych's personal accounts and in the accounts of his family would be enough to cover many current needs of Ukraine,\" he said. He added that, if the new government did sign the EU association agreement that Yanukovych faltered over, it would be easier to investigate offshore havens and return the stolen money.Klitschko, who plans to stand in presidential elections on 25 May, called on US and European officials to freeze any accounts suspected of belonging to Yanukovych and his inner circle and return the money to Ukraine.Switzerland said it was ready to freeze any funds that Yanukovych might be keeping in its banks. The Swiss foreign minister said financial institutions had been ordered to show increased vigilance when dealing with Ukrainian funds. Yanukovych's son Oleksandr, who has amassed a fortune measured in the hundreds of millions of dollars in the past three years, opened a branch of his company, MAKO, in Geneva in 2011.Meanwhile, investigative journalists are sifting through a haul of documents retrieved by divers from the river near Yanukovych's lavish residential compound outside Kiev. The documents, which are being restored by specialists after being dried in one of Yanukovych's personal saunas, are gradually being posted online, and purport to show multimillion dollar corruption and financial mismanagement.Yanukovych himself, who has been the invisible man since he fled the capital last Friday night, surfaced on Thursday yesterday with a statement claiming he was still president, and is apparently due to give a press conference in the southern Russian city of Rostov-on-Don on Friday afternoon, Russian media reported.\"On the streets of many cities, there is an orgy of extremism,\" wrote the president in a statement addressed to the Ukrainian people. \"I am certain that in these conditions all the decisions taken [by the parliament] will be ineffective and not carried out. In this situation, I officially declare that I am determined to fight to the end for the implementation of important compromise agreements that will bring Ukraine out of the deep political crisis.\"However, even among the president's close allies, he has lost authority after his flight, with the mayors of towns in his eastern heartland describing him as \"history\", his closest aides fleeing or resigning and Rinat Akhmetov, the oligarch closest to him, saying he is ready to work with the new authorities. Even in Crimea, where the pro-Russian populace has shown little appetite for accepting the regime change in Kiev, there is little sympathy for Yanukovych personally.There were rumours yesterday that Yanukovych was at a government-run sanatorium outside Moscow, however the location of his press conference, in Rostov, not far from the Ukrainian border, suggests he might have arrived there directly from Ukraine.\"Given that President Yanukovych appealed to Russian authorities with a request to guarantee his personal safety, that request has been granted on Russian territory,\" a government source told Interfax earlier on Thursday yesterday without specifying the ousted president's location.The Ukrainian parliament has voted that Yanukovych should be sent to the international criminal court in The Hague, though legal experts have said the court would be unlikely to take on such a case.", "tags": ["Ukraine", "Europe", "Viktor Yanukovych", "World news", "Russia", "Switzerland"], "title": "Ukraine's new leaders begin search for missing billions"},{"date": "2014-06-21T06:00:17Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "\"Close your eyes and begin to concentrate on your breathing,\" said a soft voice from across the circle. It seemed a shame to shut out the view: the sun was setting over Lake Maggiore, the chestnut woodland beneath me, and the resorts of Ascona and Locarno on the opposite bank. The wooded mountains of the Valle Maggia fell into shade beyond, while behind me a garden dripping with wisteria merged into a wildflower meadow.The view wasn't the point, though. I\u00a0was taking part in a guided meditation class at Hotel Sass da Gr\u00fcm above Vairano in Switzerland's Ticino region, best-known for hiking in summer and skiing in winter. Sass da Gr\u00fcm claims to be a Kraftort, or \"power place\", thanks to the ancient volcano it sits on, balanced with the water and oxygen-rich air. This \"natural energy\" would strengthen me, my instructor's voice intoned \u2013 if I could relax.The concept of a wellness holiday in a power place had sounded hokey, but intrigue persuaded me to book two nights at the three-star hotel. Not unwell but a little run-down, I decided to see whether Sass da Gr\u00fcm could have a similar effect on my wellbeing as a spa break. Power places are alleged to have a healing atmosphere thanks to their high levels of positive radiation, says the Swiss power place association (yes, there is one) Vereinigung Schweizer Kraftorte (VSK). Our meditation tutor, Sass da Gr\u00fcm's owner Peter Mettler, bought the property and its four hectares of woodland and meadows in the 1980s, on reports of a previous resident being cured of lameness there.Evidence of cures was anecdotal, but there was scientific proof of the energy. \"I hired three experts who all located the same spot of energy, \u2013 at the bottom of the garden,\" said Mettler. \"They measured high positive radiation values of 40,000 Bovis units.\" (VSK reckons the lowest level required for healthy life is 6,500 units.)Mettler added that meditating in power places can optimise energy absorption: \"With a little practice, meditation allows us to absorb the energy by creating a state of relaxation that can be more effective than sleep.\"To this effect he runs free 45-minute classes for guests, who are encouraged to do little else: the most active I got \u2013 notwithstanding the 20-minute hike to the hotel, which is reachable only on foot (there's a lift for luggage) \u2013 was stretching out on a purpose-built platform along the woodland yoga trail.The hotel has a panoramic pool and is at the start of some short hikes. But being inactive is a rare luxury, and one of the draws: a dentist from Frankfurt told me she had booked a several-week stay to recharge. That it was removed from the everyday world in pace and location was, she said, \"awesome\".We did seem far from the world, I\u00a0thought, during meditation. It left me more mindful: I smelt the lavender in the garden, heard the breeze in the treetops and the muted roar of a\u00a0distant waterfall as if anew. The feeling stayed with me after the class, as I looked into the forest from my sparsely furnished room. It didn't have the smart bedding, waffle robes or thermal hot tub I would have enjoyed at a spa. But there were no appointments to keep, and no sense there was somewhere to be. I\u00a0left feeling calm and full of energy. Fitting into Sass da Gr\u00fcm's easy-going philosophy helped me feel as in harmony with myself as the hotel was in tune with its surroundings. That, for me, was the power of the place.\u2022 Hotel Sass da Gr\u00fcm (+41 91 785 21 71, sassdagruem.ch) has rooms from CHF160pp (\u00a3106), including organic vegetarian meals, meditation classes and taxi transfer from San Nazzaro. EasyJet (easyjet.com) flies to Milan Malpensa from Edinburgh, Gatwick and Luton from \u00a359 return; direct trains from the airport to San Nazzaro cost \u00a320 return. ", "tags": ["Spa breaks", "Health and fitness holidays", "Rest and relaxation", "Switzerland holidays", "Hotels", "Travel", "Meditation"], "title": "Health spa holidays: energy and meditation in Switzerland"},{"date": "2014-11-25T14:11:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 7.30am. I have just returned from the Schule Weg or School Way, where my daughter meets her kindergarten friends. They are on their way to a beautiful 13th-century castle that dominates our village, and has been used as a school house since 1880. I linger until I see them safely reach the school steps. After growing up in Melbourne and then living in London for nearly 12\u00a0years, I am still filled with a sense of paranoia that seems out of place here.Today the children are excited as some frisky young cows have escaped, and are being chased off the football field by our neighbours waving long sticks and yelling, \u201cKomme za za za, komme za\u201d. The cows, like many of our neighbours, have recently returned from the Alps. They have been grazing there all summer; they are in high spirits and seem to think this is a game.The day is sunny but cold; winter will be here soon and so will the snow. I drop my son off at playgroup and then run a lap around the forest. On the right I have a clear view of the Eiger, M\u00f6nch and Jungfrau mountains, to the left, the serene Jura mountain range.Heitenried in the Pre-Alps in Canton Fribourg, is a busy, friendly, rural community of around 1,000 residents. Most people I know have grown up together, and have attended the same school as our children do now.At noon I hear the church bells, when all the children return home for lunch; this means I also need to be at home. On Wednesdays the kindergarten takes place in the forest, regardless of the weather. There is no school on Wednesday afternoons.In the late afternoon, I glance out the window and see a teenager riding down the street on his bike; he has a huge automatic rifle strapped to his back. My husband tells me not to worry, the rifle is not loaded because \u201cit\u2019s not allowed\u201d. The boys slows his bike and greets some children crossing the road, then makes his way to target practice at our local shooting range. Military service is still mandatory for all men from the age of 18 here.Late at night there is an eerie silence that keeps me awake, even after living here for more than four years. I imagine that if I were still living in London, seeing a teenager carrying an automatic weapon down the high street might also keep me awake.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Switzerland: mountain rhythms"},{"date": "2014-11-25T14:11:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 7.30am. I have just returned from the Schule Weg or School Way, where my daughter meets her kindergarten friends. They are on their way to a beautiful 13th-century castle that dominates our village, and has been used as a school house since 1880. I linger until I see them safely reach the school steps. After growing up in Melbourne and then living in London for nearly 12\u00a0years, I am still filled with a sense of paranoia that seems out of place here.Today the children are excited as some frisky young cows have escaped, and are being chased off the football field by our neighbours waving long sticks and yelling, \u201cKomme za za za, komme za\u201d. The cows, like many of our neighbours, have recently returned from the Alps. They have been grazing there all summer; they are in high spirits and seem to think this is a game.The day is sunny but cold; winter will be here soon and so will the snow. I drop my son off at playgroup and then run a lap around the forest. On the right I have a clear view of the Eiger, M\u00f6nch and Jungfrau mountains, to the left, the serene Jura mountain range.Heitenried in the Pre-Alps in Canton Fribourg, is a busy, friendly, rural community of around 1,000 residents. Most people I know have grown up together, and have attended the same school as our children do now.At noon I hear the church bells, when all the children return home for lunch; this means I also need to be at home. On Wednesdays the kindergarten takes place in the forest, regardless of the weather. There is no school on Wednesday afternoons.In the late afternoon, I glance out the window and see a teenager riding down the street on his bike; he has a huge automatic rifle strapped to his back. My husband tells me not to worry, the rifle is not loaded because \u201cit\u2019s not allowed\u201d. The boys slows his bike and greets some children crossing the road, then makes his way to target practice at our local shooting range. Military service is still mandatory for all men from the age of 18 here.Late at night there is an eerie silence that keeps me awake, even after living here for more than four years. I imagine that if I were still living in London, seeing a teenager carrying an automatic weapon down the high street might also keep me awake.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Switzerland: mountain rhythms"},{"date": "2014-11-25T21:24:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss like referendums: there were 11 last year and there have been nine more this year, on subjects ranging from who pays for abortions to whether the state should buy a certain type of new fighter aircraft.This Sunday there are three more, but one has attracted more attention than most \u2013 because there are fears that if it wins majority support it could trigger a worldwide gold rush.Five million Swiss voters are to decide on a proposal that would force the central bank to triple its gold reserves. The vote is being watched closely by financial markets and governments around the world.Under the \u201cSave Our Swiss Gold\u201d initiative the Swiss National Bank (SNB) would be obliged to hold at least a fifth of its assets in gold within five years. The bank would be required to repatriate all Swiss gold held abroad and be banned from selling any of its holdings in future.A fifth of Switzerland\u2019s 1,040 tonnes of gold reserves are held with The Bank of England and nearly a third with the Canadian Central Bank.The organisers say they are motivated by wanting \u201csecurity and independence for Switzerland in times of uncertainty\u201d. They argue a policy change is necessary because attempts to constrain the strength of the Swiss franc to boost national exports have meant the SNB has too many euros at a time when that currency is losing value.The slogan for the initiative \u2013 which has gripped Switzerland and been displayed on posters showing hands holding a grinning piggy bank decorated with the Swiss flag \u2013 urges voters to \u201cprotect the people\u2019s wealth\u201d by voting yes.Its supporters come from the populist right-wing Swiss People\u2019s party (SVP), which says in its mission statement: \u201cMost Swiss don\u2019t even know that part of the nation\u2019s gold is stored abroad and that the SNB has already sold over half of the gold reserves.\u201dSwitzerland, a country with a strong tradition of refining and trading gold, has the highest gold reserves per inhabitant of any country, equivalent to four ounces a head. For many this remains insufficient.If the Swiss vote yes on Monday, the SNB would be required to buy 1,500 tonnes of gold over the next five years, the equivalent of almost 70% of the global gold mined every year. Experts say the gold price would soar. \u201cIt would be an unforgettable day for the precious metal industry,\u201d according to German business analyst Michael Schr\u00f6der.Ahead of the vote the Swiss franc has risen to a two-year high. But support in the referendum has been waning as it draws nearer, with a poll a week ago suggesting only 38% were in favour, down from 42% last month.The debate has underlined the emotional and arguably romantic pull of the precious metal in an age where less tangible assets dominate.\u201cGold continues to trigger impetuous and irrational reactions in many people,\u201d Sergio Rossi, professor of macroeconomics and monetary economics at Fribourg University, told the Swiss news agency SDA.Others say it has rather emphasised the flaws in the monetary system. \u201cIt has shown just how unsustainable the debt-based monetary system we have is,\u201d said Koos Jansen, an Amsterdam-based gold analyst for the Singaporean precious-metal dealer BullionStar.\u201cThe Swiss initiative is merely part of a increasing global scramble towards gold and away from the endless printing of money. Huge movements of gold are going on right now. Recently the Dutch repatriated 122 tons, Germany is bringing home its gold from the US, whilst the Bric countries are accumulating large quantities of it for their banks.\u201cWhile those behind the Swiss initiative have often been portrayed as crazy, they\u2019re merely acting out of fear that their central bank is losing control of its monetary policy, and of the Swiss franc being sucked into this currency war and losing its value,\u201d he said.Switzerland left the gold standard only in 1999, the last country in the world to do so. \u201cThey regret what they did and want to get back to the safety of gold, especially in the current environment,\u201d Jansen added.The SNB chairman, Thomas Jordan, has warned of \u201cdangerous\u201d consequences if the vote goes through, arguing that if the bank were forced to boost its gold reserves, its costs would increase exponentially and its ability to move within the currency market would be severely hindered, putting its credibility at stake.\u201cThe initiative is dangerous because it would weaken the SNB,\u201d he told an audience near Zurich last week. \u201cThe connection between a minimum share and a ban on selling which it embraces would very severely impair our monetary policy room for manoeuvre.\u201dHe added that the initiative was in danger of destabilising one of the SNB\u2019s main policies of not letting the euro weaken below 1.20 Swiss francs, which was introduced in an attempt to protect exporters as the Swiss currency gained strength against the troubled euro.Opponents of the initiative argue the bank would no longer be able to sell gold in the event of a crisis and so its gold reserves would no longer be considered a reserve in the traditional sense.But others say if Switzerland were to hold 20% of its assets in gold it would be better protected from the volatility of the currency markets. \u201cThe central bank would lose flexibility but long term it would bring the country more stability,\u201d said Jansen.Sunday\u2019s votes have also called into question Switzerland\u2019s status as one of the most business-friendly countries in the world. The other two proposals to be voted on have sent jitters through the corporate world.The most controversial, initiated by a leftist-Green group called Ecopop, would restrict immigration to 0.2% of the resident population.A further proposal would abolish the flat tax system which benefits rich foreigners who choose to live in Switzerland.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Gold", "Commodities", "Business"], "title": "Fears that \u2018dangerous\u2019 Switzerland referendum could spark gold rush"},{"date": "2014-11-25T14:11:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 7.30am. I have just returned from the Schule Weg or School Way, where my daughter meets her kindergarten friends. They are on their way to a beautiful 13th-century castle that dominates our village, and has been used as a school house since 1880. I linger until I see them safely reach the school steps. After growing up in Melbourne and then living in London for nearly 12\u00a0years, I am still filled with a sense of paranoia that seems out of place here.Today the children are excited as some frisky young cows have escaped, and are being chased off the football field by our neighbours waving long sticks and yelling, \u201cKomme za za za, komme za\u201d. The cows, like many of our neighbours, have recently returned from the Alps. They have been grazing there all summer; they are in high spirits and seem to think this is a game.The day is sunny but cold; winter will be here soon and so will the snow. I drop my son off at playgroup and then run a lap around the forest. On the right I have a clear view of the Eiger, M\u00f6nch and Jungfrau mountains, to the left, the serene Jura mountain range.Heitenried in the Pre-Alps in Canton Fribourg, is a busy, friendly, rural community of around 1,000 residents. Most people I know have grown up together, and have attended the same school as our children do now.At noon I hear the church bells, when all the children return home for lunch; this means I also need to be at home. On Wednesdays the kindergarten takes place in the forest, regardless of the weather. There is no school on Wednesday afternoons.In the late afternoon, I glance out the window and see a teenager riding down the street on his bike; he has a huge automatic rifle strapped to his back. My husband tells me not to worry, the rifle is not loaded because \u201cit\u2019s not allowed\u201d. The boys slows his bike and greets some children crossing the road, then makes his way to target practice at our local shooting range. Military service is still mandatory for all men from the age of 18 here.Late at night there is an eerie silence that keeps me awake, even after living here for more than four years. I imagine that if I were still living in London, seeing a teenager carrying an automatic weapon down the high street might also keep me awake.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Switzerland: mountain rhythms"},{"date": "2014-11-25T21:24:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss like referendums: there were 11 last year and there have been nine more this year, on subjects ranging from who pays for abortions to whether the state should buy a certain type of new fighter aircraft.This Sunday there are three more, but one has attracted more attention than most \u2013 because there are fears that if it wins majority support it could trigger a worldwide gold rush.Five million Swiss voters are to decide on a proposal that would force the central bank to triple its gold reserves. The vote is being watched closely by financial markets and governments around the world.Under the \u201cSave Our Swiss Gold\u201d initiative the Swiss National Bank (SNB) would be obliged to hold at least a fifth of its assets in gold within five years. The bank would be required to repatriate all Swiss gold held abroad and be banned from selling any of its holdings in future.A fifth of Switzerland\u2019s 1,040 tonnes of gold reserves are held with The Bank of England and nearly a third with the Canadian Central Bank.The organisers say they are motivated by wanting \u201csecurity and independence for Switzerland in times of uncertainty\u201d. They argue a policy change is necessary because attempts to constrain the strength of the Swiss franc to boost national exports have meant the SNB has too many euros at a time when that currency is losing value.The slogan for the initiative \u2013 which has gripped Switzerland and been displayed on posters showing hands holding a grinning piggy bank decorated with the Swiss flag \u2013 urges voters to \u201cprotect the people\u2019s wealth\u201d by voting yes.Its supporters come from the populist right-wing Swiss People\u2019s party (SVP), which says in its mission statement: \u201cMost Swiss don\u2019t even know that part of the nation\u2019s gold is stored abroad and that the SNB has already sold over half of the gold reserves.\u201dSwitzerland, a country with a strong tradition of refining and trading gold, has the highest gold reserves per inhabitant of any country, equivalent to four ounces a head. For many this remains insufficient.If the Swiss vote yes on Monday, the SNB would be required to buy 1,500 tonnes of gold over the next five years, the equivalent of almost 70% of the global gold mined every year. Experts say the gold price would soar. \u201cIt would be an unforgettable day for the precious metal industry,\u201d according to German business analyst Michael Schr\u00f6der.Ahead of the vote the Swiss franc has risen to a two-year high. But support in the referendum has been waning as it draws nearer, with a poll a week ago suggesting only 38% were in favour, down from 42% last month.The debate has underlined the emotional and arguably romantic pull of the precious metal in an age where less tangible assets dominate.\u201cGold continues to trigger impetuous and irrational reactions in many people,\u201d Sergio Rossi, professor of macroeconomics and monetary economics at Fribourg University, told the Swiss news agency SDA.Others say it has rather emphasised the flaws in the monetary system. \u201cIt has shown just how unsustainable the debt-based monetary system we have is,\u201d said Koos Jansen, an Amsterdam-based gold analyst for the Singaporean precious-metal dealer BullionStar.\u201cThe Swiss initiative is merely part of a increasing global scramble towards gold and away from the endless printing of money. Huge movements of gold are going on right now. Recently the Dutch repatriated 122 tons, Germany is bringing home its gold from the US, whilst the Bric countries are accumulating large quantities of it for their banks.\u201cWhile those behind the Swiss initiative have often been portrayed as crazy, they\u2019re merely acting out of fear that their central bank is losing control of its monetary policy, and of the Swiss franc being sucked into this currency war and losing its value,\u201d he said.Switzerland left the gold standard only in 1999, the last country in the world to do so. \u201cThey regret what they did and want to get back to the safety of gold, especially in the current environment,\u201d Jansen added.The SNB chairman, Thomas Jordan, has warned of \u201cdangerous\u201d consequences if the vote goes through, arguing that if the bank were forced to boost its gold reserves, its costs would increase exponentially and its ability to move within the currency market would be severely hindered, putting its credibility at stake.\u201cThe initiative is dangerous because it would weaken the SNB,\u201d he told an audience near Zurich last week. \u201cThe connection between a minimum share and a ban on selling which it embraces would very severely impair our monetary policy room for manoeuvre.\u201dHe added that the initiative was in danger of destabilising one of the SNB\u2019s main policies of not letting the euro weaken below 1.20 Swiss francs, which was introduced in an attempt to protect exporters as the Swiss currency gained strength against the troubled euro.Opponents of the initiative argue the bank would no longer be able to sell gold in the event of a crisis and so its gold reserves would no longer be considered a reserve in the traditional sense.But others say if Switzerland were to hold 20% of its assets in gold it would be better protected from the volatility of the currency markets. \u201cThe central bank would lose flexibility but long term it would bring the country more stability,\u201d said Jansen.Sunday\u2019s votes have also called into question Switzerland\u2019s status as one of the most business-friendly countries in the world. The other two proposals to be voted on have sent jitters through the corporate world.The most controversial, initiated by a leftist-Green group called Ecopop, would restrict immigration to 0.2% of the resident population.A further proposal would abolish the flat tax system which benefits rich foreigners who choose to live in Switzerland.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Gold", "Commodities", "Business"], "title": "Fears that \u2018dangerous\u2019 Switzerland referendum could spark gold rush"},{"date": "2014-10-01T20:01:15Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When the Times Higher Education (THE) world university rankings were published yesterday, it was no surprise to see many of the usual suspects in its top 10, including the California Institute of Technology, Harvard, Oxford and Cambridge. The QS rankings published two weeks ago put MIT in top place, closely followed by Cambridge, Imperial, Harvard and Oxford.Both these lists (and the Shanghai Academic Ranking of World Universities) are dominated by UK and US universities. But there\u2019s an interloper: Switzerland, with a population of only eight million, has two universities, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zurich) and the \u00c9cole Polytechnique F\u00e9d\u00e9rale de Lausanne, in the top 20 in the QS rankings and seven in the top 200 in both the QS and THE rankings.It performs better than many bigger countries with successful economies. So what is the secret of the country\u2019s success?To answer that requires an understanding of how rankings work. Each of the three best-known ranking systems uses a set of indicators allocated a weighting: in the QS rankings, the biggest weighting, based on a survey of academics is given to academic reputation (40%), followed by faculty/student ratio (20%), citations per faculty (20%), employer reputation, based on a survey of employers (10%), international student ratio (5%) and international staff ratio (5%).Switzerland\u2019s success partly reflects the country\u2019s heavy investment in research: it spends 2.2% of its GDP on research and development, double the EU average of 1.1%.Ben Sowter, head of the QS intelligence unit, says that it has been given an added boost by the presence of the Large Hadron Collider in Geneva, giving the country\u2019s institutions the opportunity to benefit from collaborations with leading universities worldwide. This, he says, has \u201cdramatically magnified their research impact and influence at a global scale\u201d.The strong research performance of the top Swiss institutions enables them to attract the best international staff, helping them do well on that particular indicator. But the country\u2019s location in the centre of western Europe also makes Switzerland attractive to international staff and students: it has borders with five countries, and three principal national languages (French, German and Italian). As a result, 21% of university students come from abroad.Ellen Hazelkorn, director of research and enterprise at the Dublin Institute of Technology, notes that Switzerland\u2019s size gives it an advantage on the international staff indicator: \u201cIf you\u2019re a small country, you probably have more people who got their doctorate in another country.\u201d Some international staff can even commute to work in a Swiss university from across one of the borders.Like a number of other institutions in the QS top 20, both ETH Zurich and the \u00c9cole Polytechnique F\u00e9d\u00e9rale de Lausanne, specialise in technology and science. Scientists all over the world tend to publish in English, and because QS\u2019s citations indicator is based on Elsevier\u2019s Scopus database, which has a bias towards English-language publications, this gives an advantage to institutions focused on science \u2013 academics in the humanities often prefer to publish in their own language.Scientists also tend to publish in journals, while humanities academics often publish their work in book chapters or monographs, which are not included in Scopus \u2013 again giving an advantage to scientifically-based institutions.Frank Ziegele, director of Germany\u2019s Centre for Higher Education, says: \u201cIf you\u2019re a university focused on humanities you never have the chance to be on top in the QS rankings.\u201dSome academics are highly sceptical about the usefulness of the indicators used to compile rankings: Hazelkorn argues that a high proportion of international students could just as easily decrease a university\u2019s quality as increase it. The usefulness of faculty-staff ratio as a proxy for teaching and learning is also contentious: Hazelkorn describes it as \u201ccompletely meaningless and a hugely disputed measure of anything having to do with quality,\u201d though Sowter argues that \u201cfaculty-student ratio is necessary, even in an increasingly digitised world, if you\u2019re going to be able to provide enough academic support for your students.\u201dThe bigger difficulty with the rankings is that of the \u201chalo\u201d effect where, in the words of Simon Marginson, professor of international higher education at the Institute of Education, \u201cexisting reputation drives judgement\u201d. He says: \u201cNew institutions can\u2019t crack the top group because reputations continue to recycle, and it protects their material position, because it keeps the research money flying in. Students and staff of quality keep wanting to go there and that sustains the quality.\u201dIs there another way? Marginson believes that the Leiden rankings, which use single (rather than aggregated) indicators, and draw on hard data rather than surveys, provide a more accurate methodology for assessing universities\u2019 research performance.The new U-Multirank site, developed by Ziegele and his colleagues, does away with rankings, instead showing profiles for individual universities, with a clear measure for each indicator: users can compare how two universities perform on different indicators. While ETH Zurich, for example, retains an impressive research score, only 61% of new entrants successfully complete their bachelor degree. Although U-Multirank is potentially a rich source of data, many of the top universities have so far refused to provide data, compromising its usefulness.Rankings are undoubtedly seductive. But there is a danger that by aggregating different measures, we smooth over important differences in individual areas. We also run the risk that universities \u2013 and countries \u2013 become so fixated on rankings that they expend their efforts on activities designed to manipulate their place in them instead of concentrating on the quality of higher education as a whole, says Hazelkorn: \u201cThe percentage of students who attend these [top-ranking] institutions is a fraction, less than 1%. The real focus should be on whether our systems are world-class.\u201dMore like this:Join the higher education network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on Twitter @gdnhighered. ", "tags": ["Impact of research", "Higher Education Network", "Research", "Higher education", "Education", "Switzerland", "World news"], "title": "Why does Switzerland do so well in university rankings?"},{"date": "2014-11-25T14:11:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 7.30am. I have just returned from the Schule Weg or School Way, where my daughter meets her kindergarten friends. They are on their way to a beautiful 13th-century castle that dominates our village, and has been used as a school house since 1880. I linger until I see them safely reach the school steps. After growing up in Melbourne and then living in London for nearly 12\u00a0years, I am still filled with a sense of paranoia that seems out of place here.Today the children are excited as some frisky young cows have escaped, and are being chased off the football field by our neighbours waving long sticks and yelling, \u201cKomme za za za, komme za\u201d. The cows, like many of our neighbours, have recently returned from the Alps. They have been grazing there all summer; they are in high spirits and seem to think this is a game.The day is sunny but cold; winter will be here soon and so will the snow. I drop my son off at playgroup and then run a lap around the forest. On the right I have a clear view of the Eiger, M\u00f6nch and Jungfrau mountains, to the left, the serene Jura mountain range.Heitenried in the Pre-Alps in Canton Fribourg, is a busy, friendly, rural community of around 1,000 residents. Most people I know have grown up together, and have attended the same school as our children do now.At noon I hear the church bells, when all the children return home for lunch; this means I also need to be at home. On Wednesdays the kindergarten takes place in the forest, regardless of the weather. There is no school on Wednesday afternoons.In the late afternoon, I glance out the window and see a teenager riding down the street on his bike; he has a huge automatic rifle strapped to his back. My husband tells me not to worry, the rifle is not loaded because \u201cit\u2019s not allowed\u201d. The boys slows his bike and greets some children crossing the road, then makes his way to target practice at our local shooting range. Military service is still mandatory for all men from the age of 18 here.Late at night there is an eerie silence that keeps me awake, even after living here for more than four years. I imagine that if I were still living in London, seeing a teenager carrying an automatic weapon down the high street might also keep me awake.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Switzerland: mountain rhythms"},{"date": "2014-11-25T21:24:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss like referendums: there were 11 last year and there have been nine more this year, on subjects ranging from who pays for abortions to whether the state should buy a certain type of new fighter aircraft.This Sunday there are three more, but one has attracted more attention than most \u2013 because there are fears that if it wins majority support it could trigger a worldwide gold rush.Five million Swiss voters are to decide on a proposal that would force the central bank to triple its gold reserves. The vote is being watched closely by financial markets and governments around the world.Under the \u201cSave Our Swiss Gold\u201d initiative the Swiss National Bank (SNB) would be obliged to hold at least a fifth of its assets in gold within five years. The bank would be required to repatriate all Swiss gold held abroad and be banned from selling any of its holdings in future.A fifth of Switzerland\u2019s 1,040 tonnes of gold reserves are held with The Bank of England and nearly a third with the Canadian Central Bank.The organisers say they are motivated by wanting \u201csecurity and independence for Switzerland in times of uncertainty\u201d. They argue a policy change is necessary because attempts to constrain the strength of the Swiss franc to boost national exports have meant the SNB has too many euros at a time when that currency is losing value.The slogan for the initiative \u2013 which has gripped Switzerland and been displayed on posters showing hands holding a grinning piggy bank decorated with the Swiss flag \u2013 urges voters to \u201cprotect the people\u2019s wealth\u201d by voting yes.Its supporters come from the populist right-wing Swiss People\u2019s party (SVP), which says in its mission statement: \u201cMost Swiss don\u2019t even know that part of the nation\u2019s gold is stored abroad and that the SNB has already sold over half of the gold reserves.\u201dSwitzerland, a country with a strong tradition of refining and trading gold, has the highest gold reserves per inhabitant of any country, equivalent to four ounces a head. For many this remains insufficient.If the Swiss vote yes on Monday, the SNB would be required to buy 1,500 tonnes of gold over the next five years, the equivalent of almost 70% of the global gold mined every year. Experts say the gold price would soar. \u201cIt would be an unforgettable day for the precious metal industry,\u201d according to German business analyst Michael Schr\u00f6der.Ahead of the vote the Swiss franc has risen to a two-year high. But support in the referendum has been waning as it draws nearer, with a poll a week ago suggesting only 38% were in favour, down from 42% last month.The debate has underlined the emotional and arguably romantic pull of the precious metal in an age where less tangible assets dominate.\u201cGold continues to trigger impetuous and irrational reactions in many people,\u201d Sergio Rossi, professor of macroeconomics and monetary economics at Fribourg University, told the Swiss news agency SDA.Others say it has rather emphasised the flaws in the monetary system. \u201cIt has shown just how unsustainable the debt-based monetary system we have is,\u201d said Koos Jansen, an Amsterdam-based gold analyst for the Singaporean precious-metal dealer BullionStar.\u201cThe Swiss initiative is merely part of a increasing global scramble towards gold and away from the endless printing of money. Huge movements of gold are going on right now. Recently the Dutch repatriated 122 tons, Germany is bringing home its gold from the US, whilst the Bric countries are accumulating large quantities of it for their banks.\u201cWhile those behind the Swiss initiative have often been portrayed as crazy, they\u2019re merely acting out of fear that their central bank is losing control of its monetary policy, and of the Swiss franc being sucked into this currency war and losing its value,\u201d he said.Switzerland left the gold standard only in 1999, the last country in the world to do so. \u201cThey regret what they did and want to get back to the safety of gold, especially in the current environment,\u201d Jansen added.The SNB chairman, Thomas Jordan, has warned of \u201cdangerous\u201d consequences if the vote goes through, arguing that if the bank were forced to boost its gold reserves, its costs would increase exponentially and its ability to move within the currency market would be severely hindered, putting its credibility at stake.\u201cThe initiative is dangerous because it would weaken the SNB,\u201d he told an audience near Zurich last week. \u201cThe connection between a minimum share and a ban on selling which it embraces would very severely impair our monetary policy room for manoeuvre.\u201dHe added that the initiative was in danger of destabilising one of the SNB\u2019s main policies of not letting the euro weaken below 1.20 Swiss francs, which was introduced in an attempt to protect exporters as the Swiss currency gained strength against the troubled euro.Opponents of the initiative argue the bank would no longer be able to sell gold in the event of a crisis and so its gold reserves would no longer be considered a reserve in the traditional sense.But others say if Switzerland were to hold 20% of its assets in gold it would be better protected from the volatility of the currency markets. \u201cThe central bank would lose flexibility but long term it would bring the country more stability,\u201d said Jansen.Sunday\u2019s votes have also called into question Switzerland\u2019s status as one of the most business-friendly countries in the world. The other two proposals to be voted on have sent jitters through the corporate world.The most controversial, initiated by a leftist-Green group called Ecopop, would restrict immigration to 0.2% of the resident population.A further proposal would abolish the flat tax system which benefits rich foreigners who choose to live in Switzerland.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Gold", "Commodities", "Business"], "title": "Fears that \u2018dangerous\u2019 Switzerland referendum could spark gold rush"},{"date": "2014-10-01T20:01:15Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When the Times Higher Education (THE) world university rankings were published yesterday, it was no surprise to see many of the usual suspects in its top 10, including the California Institute of Technology, Harvard, Oxford and Cambridge. The QS rankings published two weeks ago put MIT in top place, closely followed by Cambridge, Imperial, Harvard and Oxford.Both these lists (and the Shanghai Academic Ranking of World Universities) are dominated by UK and US universities. But there\u2019s an interloper: Switzerland, with a population of only eight million, has two universities, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zurich) and the \u00c9cole Polytechnique F\u00e9d\u00e9rale de Lausanne, in the top 20 in the QS rankings and seven in the top 200 in both the QS and THE rankings.It performs better than many bigger countries with successful economies. So what is the secret of the country\u2019s success?To answer that requires an understanding of how rankings work. Each of the three best-known ranking systems uses a set of indicators allocated a weighting: in the QS rankings, the biggest weighting, based on a survey of academics is given to academic reputation (40%), followed by faculty/student ratio (20%), citations per faculty (20%), employer reputation, based on a survey of employers (10%), international student ratio (5%) and international staff ratio (5%).Switzerland\u2019s success partly reflects the country\u2019s heavy investment in research: it spends 2.2% of its GDP on research and development, double the EU average of 1.1%.Ben Sowter, head of the QS intelligence unit, says that it has been given an added boost by the presence of the Large Hadron Collider in Geneva, giving the country\u2019s institutions the opportunity to benefit from collaborations with leading universities worldwide. This, he says, has \u201cdramatically magnified their research impact and influence at a global scale\u201d.The strong research performance of the top Swiss institutions enables them to attract the best international staff, helping them do well on that particular indicator. But the country\u2019s location in the centre of western Europe also makes Switzerland attractive to international staff and students: it has borders with five countries, and three principal national languages (French, German and Italian). As a result, 21% of university students come from abroad.Ellen Hazelkorn, director of research and enterprise at the Dublin Institute of Technology, notes that Switzerland\u2019s size gives it an advantage on the international staff indicator: \u201cIf you\u2019re a small country, you probably have more people who got their doctorate in another country.\u201d Some international staff can even commute to work in a Swiss university from across one of the borders.Like a number of other institutions in the QS top 20, both ETH Zurich and the \u00c9cole Polytechnique F\u00e9d\u00e9rale de Lausanne, specialise in technology and science. Scientists all over the world tend to publish in English, and because QS\u2019s citations indicator is based on Elsevier\u2019s Scopus database, which has a bias towards English-language publications, this gives an advantage to institutions focused on science \u2013 academics in the humanities often prefer to publish in their own language.Scientists also tend to publish in journals, while humanities academics often publish their work in book chapters or monographs, which are not included in Scopus \u2013 again giving an advantage to scientifically-based institutions.Frank Ziegele, director of Germany\u2019s Centre for Higher Education, says: \u201cIf you\u2019re a university focused on humanities you never have the chance to be on top in the QS rankings.\u201dSome academics are highly sceptical about the usefulness of the indicators used to compile rankings: Hazelkorn argues that a high proportion of international students could just as easily decrease a university\u2019s quality as increase it. The usefulness of faculty-staff ratio as a proxy for teaching and learning is also contentious: Hazelkorn describes it as \u201ccompletely meaningless and a hugely disputed measure of anything having to do with quality,\u201d though Sowter argues that \u201cfaculty-student ratio is necessary, even in an increasingly digitised world, if you\u2019re going to be able to provide enough academic support for your students.\u201dThe bigger difficulty with the rankings is that of the \u201chalo\u201d effect where, in the words of Simon Marginson, professor of international higher education at the Institute of Education, \u201cexisting reputation drives judgement\u201d. He says: \u201cNew institutions can\u2019t crack the top group because reputations continue to recycle, and it protects their material position, because it keeps the research money flying in. Students and staff of quality keep wanting to go there and that sustains the quality.\u201dIs there another way? Marginson believes that the Leiden rankings, which use single (rather than aggregated) indicators, and draw on hard data rather than surveys, provide a more accurate methodology for assessing universities\u2019 research performance.The new U-Multirank site, developed by Ziegele and his colleagues, does away with rankings, instead showing profiles for individual universities, with a clear measure for each indicator: users can compare how two universities perform on different indicators. While ETH Zurich, for example, retains an impressive research score, only 61% of new entrants successfully complete their bachelor degree. Although U-Multirank is potentially a rich source of data, many of the top universities have so far refused to provide data, compromising its usefulness.Rankings are undoubtedly seductive. But there is a danger that by aggregating different measures, we smooth over important differences in individual areas. We also run the risk that universities \u2013 and countries \u2013 become so fixated on rankings that they expend their efforts on activities designed to manipulate their place in them instead of concentrating on the quality of higher education as a whole, says Hazelkorn: \u201cThe percentage of students who attend these [top-ranking] institutions is a fraction, less than 1%. The real focus should be on whether our systems are world-class.\u201dMore like this:Join the higher education network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on Twitter @gdnhighered. ", "tags": ["Impact of research", "Higher Education Network", "Research", "Higher education", "Education", "Switzerland", "World news"], "title": "Why does Switzerland do so well in university rankings?"},{"date": "2014-11-07T20:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tax experts responsible for the G20-led shakeup of international tax rules are discussing radical measures to bar global corporations from using internal loans, that bear no relation to their borrowing needs, in order to avoid tax.If adopted, the move could wipe out vast swaths of the financial industry at a stroke in countries such as Switzerland and Luxembourg, which have for years courted the intra-group financing offices of multinational firms by operating friendly local tax regimes.Raffaele Russo, one of the OECD tax experts leading the reform programme that has come in response to increasingly aggressive tax planning by multinationals, told the Guardian that if the proposals were backed, \u201cthis will be the end of [tax] base erosion and profit shifting using intra-group financing\u201d.Measures to tackle multinationals taking large tax deductions for interest payments on loans within the same group are hinted at in a report published in September. It said: \u201cA formulary type of approach which ties the deductible interest payments to external debt payments may lead to results that better reflect the business reality of multinational \u2026 groups.\u201dWhile other measures are also on the table, pressure to take radical steps to stamp out intra-group loans contrived for tax avoidance has grown this week after revelations about tax agreements rubber-stamped by the Luxembourg tax office.Luxembourg finance minister Pierre Gramegna used a public session during a meeting of European finance ministers in Brussels to deliver a statement in reaction to this week\u2019s revelations about tax agreements with multinationals.\u201cMy country [has] come under scrutiny in the latest days. The rulings of Luxembourg are being done according to the national laws of Luxembourg and also according to international conventions. What is being done is totally legal.\u201d He acknowledged rulings and weak tax treaties had led to \u201csituations where companies are paying no taxes or very little taxes [which] is obviously not a good result\u201d.He noted, however, that many other EU countries offered companies advance tax agreements for their tax structures, but said that more must be done to coordinate global efforts led by the G20. \u201cIf we want to change [the] legal framework we will have to do it all together.\u201dThe Guardian this week published an investigation into several multinational companies with large intra-group lending activities based out of Luxembourg. The investigation was part of a wider analysis, involving journalists in more than 20 countries, scrutinising hundreds of ATAs awarded by the local tax office.Among the findings was an internal financing company within drug group Shire, best known for its treatments for ADHD. The tiny lending unit \u2013 with staff costs last year of less than $50,000 \u2013 lent more than $10bn to other group companies, sometimes at 8% or 9% interest.Neither the scale of lending nor the interest rates charged bore much relation to Shire\u2019s global borrowing needs. The Guardian investigation showed, however, that Shire\u2019s controversial structures had allowed the lending unit to amass more than $1.9bn in interest income over five years while incurring tax of less than $2m for four of the years.Asked why Shire\u2019s Luxembourg unit had made large loans to sister companies and charged high rates of interest \u2013 neither seemingly reflecting the group\u2019s overall borrowing needs or financial strength \u2013 the drugs firm declined to comment.In a statement, it said its Luxembourg lending unit was \u201cpart of our overall treasury operations\u201d, adding \u201cwe have a responsibility to all our stakeholders to manage our business responsibly; this includes managing our tax affairs in the interests of all stakeholders\u201d.Tax advisers Grant Thornton set out the benefits of Luxembourg in a presentation last year saying the Grand Duchy was \u201cpre-eminent within the financial sector \u2026 often used as a treasury/financing location\u201d. The presentation continued: \u201cLuxembourg\u2019s government understands the need for a close working relationship with business.\u201d It added: \u201cIt is possible for companies to obtain an advance tax agreement [ATA] \u2026 commonly obtained for financing structures.\u201dMore than 40 nations, representing over 90% of the world\u2019s economy, are signed up to the G20-led reform agenda. They acknowledge that multinationals and their tax advisers have stretched current rules to breaking point and that there is an \u201curgent need\u201d to rein in the avoidance industry, which was draining tax receipts and threatening the authority of governments.Tasked with leading the reform project, the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), in September published the first wave of proposals, which have been agreed. A second wave \u2013 expected to include measures to tackle excessive interest deductions \u2013 is expected in the autumn of 2015.The use of intra-group loans is commonplace in the tax planning activities of multinationals. One of the most dramatic examples occurred at Vodafone, which in 2000 channelled \u00a342.5bn of intra-group loans through the Swiss branch of one of its Luxembourg subsidiaries. The arrangement was the subject of a lengthy dispute with HRMC, ending in a \u00a31.25bn settlement in 2010, which was heavily criticised by tax campaigners and politicians.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "G20", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Luxembourg", "Financial sector", "Business", "Corporate governance", "European Union", "European commission"], "title": "G20 experts to act on corporations\u2019 internal loans that help cut tax"},{"date": "2014-11-25T14:11:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 7.30am. I have just returned from the Schule Weg or School Way, where my daughter meets her kindergarten friends. They are on their way to a beautiful 13th-century castle that dominates our village, and has been used as a school house since 1880. I linger until I see them safely reach the school steps. After growing up in Melbourne and then living in London for nearly 12\u00a0years, I am still filled with a sense of paranoia that seems out of place here.Today the children are excited as some frisky young cows have escaped, and are being chased off the football field by our neighbours waving long sticks and yelling, \u201cKomme za za za, komme za\u201d. The cows, like many of our neighbours, have recently returned from the Alps. They have been grazing there all summer; they are in high spirits and seem to think this is a game.The day is sunny but cold; winter will be here soon and so will the snow. I drop my son off at playgroup and then run a lap around the forest. On the right I have a clear view of the Eiger, M\u00f6nch and Jungfrau mountains, to the left, the serene Jura mountain range.Heitenried in the Pre-Alps in Canton Fribourg, is a busy, friendly, rural community of around 1,000 residents. Most people I know have grown up together, and have attended the same school as our children do now.At noon I hear the church bells, when all the children return home for lunch; this means I also need to be at home. On Wednesdays the kindergarten takes place in the forest, regardless of the weather. There is no school on Wednesday afternoons.In the late afternoon, I glance out the window and see a teenager riding down the street on his bike; he has a huge automatic rifle strapped to his back. My husband tells me not to worry, the rifle is not loaded because \u201cit\u2019s not allowed\u201d. The boys slows his bike and greets some children crossing the road, then makes his way to target practice at our local shooting range. Military service is still mandatory for all men from the age of 18 here.Late at night there is an eerie silence that keeps me awake, even after living here for more than four years. I imagine that if I were still living in London, seeing a teenager carrying an automatic weapon down the high street might also keep me awake.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Switzerland: mountain rhythms"},{"date": "2014-11-25T21:24:08Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The Swiss like referendums: there were 11 last year and there have been nine more this year, on subjects ranging from who pays for abortions to whether the state should buy a certain type of new fighter aircraft.This Sunday there are three more, but one has attracted more attention than most \u2013 because there are fears that if it wins majority support it could trigger a worldwide gold rush.Five million Swiss voters are to decide on a proposal that would force the central bank to triple its gold reserves. The vote is being watched closely by financial markets and governments around the world.Under the \u201cSave Our Swiss Gold\u201d initiative the Swiss National Bank (SNB) would be obliged to hold at least a fifth of its assets in gold within five years. The bank would be required to repatriate all Swiss gold held abroad and be banned from selling any of its holdings in future.A fifth of Switzerland\u2019s 1,040 tonnes of gold reserves are held with The Bank of England and nearly a third with the Canadian Central Bank.The organisers say they are motivated by wanting \u201csecurity and independence for Switzerland in times of uncertainty\u201d. They argue a policy change is necessary because attempts to constrain the strength of the Swiss franc to boost national exports have meant the SNB has too many euros at a time when that currency is losing value.The slogan for the initiative \u2013 which has gripped Switzerland and been displayed on posters showing hands holding a grinning piggy bank decorated with the Swiss flag \u2013 urges voters to \u201cprotect the people\u2019s wealth\u201d by voting yes.Its supporters come from the populist right-wing Swiss People\u2019s party (SVP), which says in its mission statement: \u201cMost Swiss don\u2019t even know that part of the nation\u2019s gold is stored abroad and that the SNB has already sold over half of the gold reserves.\u201dSwitzerland, a country with a strong tradition of refining and trading gold, has the highest gold reserves per inhabitant of any country, equivalent to four ounces a head. For many this remains insufficient.If the Swiss vote yes on Monday, the SNB would be required to buy 1,500 tonnes of gold over the next five years, the equivalent of almost 70% of the global gold mined every year. Experts say the gold price would soar. \u201cIt would be an unforgettable day for the precious metal industry,\u201d according to German business analyst Michael Schr\u00f6der.Ahead of the vote the Swiss franc has risen to a two-year high. But support in the referendum has been waning as it draws nearer, with a poll a week ago suggesting only 38% were in favour, down from 42% last month.The debate has underlined the emotional and arguably romantic pull of the precious metal in an age where less tangible assets dominate.\u201cGold continues to trigger impetuous and irrational reactions in many people,\u201d Sergio Rossi, professor of macroeconomics and monetary economics at Fribourg University, told the Swiss news agency SDA.Others say it has rather emphasised the flaws in the monetary system. \u201cIt has shown just how unsustainable the debt-based monetary system we have is,\u201d said Koos Jansen, an Amsterdam-based gold analyst for the Singaporean precious-metal dealer BullionStar.\u201cThe Swiss initiative is merely part of a increasing global scramble towards gold and away from the endless printing of money. Huge movements of gold are going on right now. Recently the Dutch repatriated 122 tons, Germany is bringing home its gold from the US, whilst the Bric countries are accumulating large quantities of it for their banks.\u201cWhile those behind the Swiss initiative have often been portrayed as crazy, they\u2019re merely acting out of fear that their central bank is losing control of its monetary policy, and of the Swiss franc being sucked into this currency war and losing its value,\u201d he said.Switzerland left the gold standard only in 1999, the last country in the world to do so. \u201cThey regret what they did and want to get back to the safety of gold, especially in the current environment,\u201d Jansen added.The SNB chairman, Thomas Jordan, has warned of \u201cdangerous\u201d consequences if the vote goes through, arguing that if the bank were forced to boost its gold reserves, its costs would increase exponentially and its ability to move within the currency market would be severely hindered, putting its credibility at stake.\u201cThe initiative is dangerous because it would weaken the SNB,\u201d he told an audience near Zurich last week. \u201cThe connection between a minimum share and a ban on selling which it embraces would very severely impair our monetary policy room for manoeuvre.\u201dHe added that the initiative was in danger of destabilising one of the SNB\u2019s main policies of not letting the euro weaken below 1.20 Swiss francs, which was introduced in an attempt to protect exporters as the Swiss currency gained strength against the troubled euro.Opponents of the initiative argue the bank would no longer be able to sell gold in the event of a crisis and so its gold reserves would no longer be considered a reserve in the traditional sense.But others say if Switzerland were to hold 20% of its assets in gold it would be better protected from the volatility of the currency markets. \u201cThe central bank would lose flexibility but long term it would bring the country more stability,\u201d said Jansen.Sunday\u2019s votes have also called into question Switzerland\u2019s status as one of the most business-friendly countries in the world. The other two proposals to be voted on have sent jitters through the corporate world.The most controversial, initiated by a leftist-Green group called Ecopop, would restrict immigration to 0.2% of the resident population.A further proposal would abolish the flat tax system which benefits rich foreigners who choose to live in Switzerland.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Gold", "Commodities", "Business"], "title": "Fears that \u2018dangerous\u2019 Switzerland referendum could spark gold rush"},{"date": "2014-10-01T20:01:15Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When the Times Higher Education (THE) world university rankings were published yesterday, it was no surprise to see many of the usual suspects in its top 10, including the California Institute of Technology, Harvard, Oxford and Cambridge. The QS rankings published two weeks ago put MIT in top place, closely followed by Cambridge, Imperial, Harvard and Oxford.Both these lists (and the Shanghai Academic Ranking of World Universities) are dominated by UK and US universities. But there\u2019s an interloper: Switzerland, with a population of only eight million, has two universities, the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (ETH Zurich) and the \u00c9cole Polytechnique F\u00e9d\u00e9rale de Lausanne, in the top 20 in the QS rankings and seven in the top 200 in both the QS and THE rankings.It performs better than many bigger countries with successful economies. So what is the secret of the country\u2019s success?To answer that requires an understanding of how rankings work. Each of the three best-known ranking systems uses a set of indicators allocated a weighting: in the QS rankings, the biggest weighting, based on a survey of academics is given to academic reputation (40%), followed by faculty/student ratio (20%), citations per faculty (20%), employer reputation, based on a survey of employers (10%), international student ratio (5%) and international staff ratio (5%).Switzerland\u2019s success partly reflects the country\u2019s heavy investment in research: it spends 2.2% of its GDP on research and development, double the EU average of 1.1%.Ben Sowter, head of the QS intelligence unit, says that it has been given an added boost by the presence of the Large Hadron Collider in Geneva, giving the country\u2019s institutions the opportunity to benefit from collaborations with leading universities worldwide. This, he says, has \u201cdramatically magnified their research impact and influence at a global scale\u201d.The strong research performance of the top Swiss institutions enables them to attract the best international staff, helping them do well on that particular indicator. But the country\u2019s location in the centre of western Europe also makes Switzerland attractive to international staff and students: it has borders with five countries, and three principal national languages (French, German and Italian). As a result, 21% of university students come from abroad.Ellen Hazelkorn, director of research and enterprise at the Dublin Institute of Technology, notes that Switzerland\u2019s size gives it an advantage on the international staff indicator: \u201cIf you\u2019re a small country, you probably have more people who got their doctorate in another country.\u201d Some international staff can even commute to work in a Swiss university from across one of the borders.Like a number of other institutions in the QS top 20, both ETH Zurich and the \u00c9cole Polytechnique F\u00e9d\u00e9rale de Lausanne, specialise in technology and science. Scientists all over the world tend to publish in English, and because QS\u2019s citations indicator is based on Elsevier\u2019s Scopus database, which has a bias towards English-language publications, this gives an advantage to institutions focused on science \u2013 academics in the humanities often prefer to publish in their own language.Scientists also tend to publish in journals, while humanities academics often publish their work in book chapters or monographs, which are not included in Scopus \u2013 again giving an advantage to scientifically-based institutions.Frank Ziegele, director of Germany\u2019s Centre for Higher Education, says: \u201cIf you\u2019re a university focused on humanities you never have the chance to be on top in the QS rankings.\u201dSome academics are highly sceptical about the usefulness of the indicators used to compile rankings: Hazelkorn argues that a high proportion of international students could just as easily decrease a university\u2019s quality as increase it. The usefulness of faculty-staff ratio as a proxy for teaching and learning is also contentious: Hazelkorn describes it as \u201ccompletely meaningless and a hugely disputed measure of anything having to do with quality,\u201d though Sowter argues that \u201cfaculty-student ratio is necessary, even in an increasingly digitised world, if you\u2019re going to be able to provide enough academic support for your students.\u201dThe bigger difficulty with the rankings is that of the \u201chalo\u201d effect where, in the words of Simon Marginson, professor of international higher education at the Institute of Education, \u201cexisting reputation drives judgement\u201d. He says: \u201cNew institutions can\u2019t crack the top group because reputations continue to recycle, and it protects their material position, because it keeps the research money flying in. Students and staff of quality keep wanting to go there and that sustains the quality.\u201dIs there another way? Marginson believes that the Leiden rankings, which use single (rather than aggregated) indicators, and draw on hard data rather than surveys, provide a more accurate methodology for assessing universities\u2019 research performance.The new U-Multirank site, developed by Ziegele and his colleagues, does away with rankings, instead showing profiles for individual universities, with a clear measure for each indicator: users can compare how two universities perform on different indicators. While ETH Zurich, for example, retains an impressive research score, only 61% of new entrants successfully complete their bachelor degree. Although U-Multirank is potentially a rich source of data, many of the top universities have so far refused to provide data, compromising its usefulness.Rankings are undoubtedly seductive. But there is a danger that by aggregating different measures, we smooth over important differences in individual areas. We also run the risk that universities \u2013 and countries \u2013 become so fixated on rankings that they expend their efforts on activities designed to manipulate their place in them instead of concentrating on the quality of higher education as a whole, says Hazelkorn: \u201cThe percentage of students who attend these [top-ranking] institutions is a fraction, less than 1%. The real focus should be on whether our systems are world-class.\u201dMore like this:Join the higher education network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on Twitter @gdnhighered. ", "tags": ["Impact of research", "Higher Education Network", "Research", "Higher education", "Education", "Switzerland", "World news"], "title": "Why does Switzerland do so well in university rankings?"},{"date": "2014-11-07T20:37:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Tax experts responsible for the G20-led shakeup of international tax rules are discussing radical measures to bar global corporations from using internal loans, that bear no relation to their borrowing needs, in order to avoid tax.If adopted, the move could wipe out vast swaths of the financial industry at a stroke in countries such as Switzerland and Luxembourg, which have for years courted the intra-group financing offices of multinational firms by operating friendly local tax regimes.Raffaele Russo, one of the OECD tax experts leading the reform programme that has come in response to increasingly aggressive tax planning by multinationals, told the Guardian that if the proposals were backed, \u201cthis will be the end of [tax] base erosion and profit shifting using intra-group financing\u201d.Measures to tackle multinationals taking large tax deductions for interest payments on loans within the same group are hinted at in a report published in September. It said: \u201cA formulary type of approach which ties the deductible interest payments to external debt payments may lead to results that better reflect the business reality of multinational \u2026 groups.\u201dWhile other measures are also on the table, pressure to take radical steps to stamp out intra-group loans contrived for tax avoidance has grown this week after revelations about tax agreements rubber-stamped by the Luxembourg tax office.Luxembourg finance minister Pierre Gramegna used a public session during a meeting of European finance ministers in Brussels to deliver a statement in reaction to this week\u2019s revelations about tax agreements with multinationals.\u201cMy country [has] come under scrutiny in the latest days. The rulings of Luxembourg are being done according to the national laws of Luxembourg and also according to international conventions. What is being done is totally legal.\u201d He acknowledged rulings and weak tax treaties had led to \u201csituations where companies are paying no taxes or very little taxes [which] is obviously not a good result\u201d.He noted, however, that many other EU countries offered companies advance tax agreements for their tax structures, but said that more must be done to coordinate global efforts led by the G20. \u201cIf we want to change [the] legal framework we will have to do it all together.\u201dThe Guardian this week published an investigation into several multinational companies with large intra-group lending activities based out of Luxembourg. The investigation was part of a wider analysis, involving journalists in more than 20 countries, scrutinising hundreds of ATAs awarded by the local tax office.Among the findings was an internal financing company within drug group Shire, best known for its treatments for ADHD. The tiny lending unit \u2013 with staff costs last year of less than $50,000 \u2013 lent more than $10bn to other group companies, sometimes at 8% or 9% interest.Neither the scale of lending nor the interest rates charged bore much relation to Shire\u2019s global borrowing needs. The Guardian investigation showed, however, that Shire\u2019s controversial structures had allowed the lending unit to amass more than $1.9bn in interest income over five years while incurring tax of less than $2m for four of the years.Asked why Shire\u2019s Luxembourg unit had made large loans to sister companies and charged high rates of interest \u2013 neither seemingly reflecting the group\u2019s overall borrowing needs or financial strength \u2013 the drugs firm declined to comment.In a statement, it said its Luxembourg lending unit was \u201cpart of our overall treasury operations\u201d, adding \u201cwe have a responsibility to all our stakeholders to manage our business responsibly; this includes managing our tax affairs in the interests of all stakeholders\u201d.Tax advisers Grant Thornton set out the benefits of Luxembourg in a presentation last year saying the Grand Duchy was \u201cpre-eminent within the financial sector \u2026 often used as a treasury/financing location\u201d. The presentation continued: \u201cLuxembourg\u2019s government understands the need for a close working relationship with business.\u201d It added: \u201cIt is possible for companies to obtain an advance tax agreement [ATA] \u2026 commonly obtained for financing structures.\u201dMore than 40 nations, representing over 90% of the world\u2019s economy, are signed up to the G20-led reform agenda. They acknowledge that multinationals and their tax advisers have stretched current rules to breaking point and that there is an \u201curgent need\u201d to rein in the avoidance industry, which was draining tax receipts and threatening the authority of governments.Tasked with leading the reform project, the Paris-based Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), in September published the first wave of proposals, which have been agreed. A second wave \u2013 expected to include measures to tackle excessive interest deductions \u2013 is expected in the autumn of 2015.The use of intra-group loans is commonplace in the tax planning activities of multinationals. One of the most dramatic examples occurred at Vodafone, which in 2000 channelled \u00a342.5bn of intra-group loans through the Swiss branch of one of its Luxembourg subsidiaries. The arrangement was the subject of a lengthy dispute with HRMC, ending in a \u00a31.25bn settlement in 2010, which was heavily criticised by tax campaigners and politicians.", "tags": ["Tax avoidance", "G20", "World news", "Switzerland", "Europe", "Luxembourg", "Financial sector", "Business", "Corporate governance", "European Union", "European commission"], "title": "G20 experts to act on corporations\u2019 internal loans that help cut tax"},{"date": "2014-11-24T01:16:48Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "When Joanna Murray-Smith opens the door to her North Fitzroy townhouse, it\u2019s to a corridor filled with boxes \u2013 filled, it turns out, with bookshelves. Shelves ready for the impending arrival of 10,000 books \u2013 Murray-Smith\u2019s share of her late parents\u2019 library.She apologises for the mess, but the apology is unnecessary. This was pretty much what I was expecting from the Melbourne playwright\u2019s home, the same kind of world of letters conjured up by her plays. Upstairs, her house guest, the British film actress Caroline Goodall, is working out on a Pilates machine. She\u2019s in town to film The Dressmaker, a new Australian feature starring Kate Winslet. The two women got all dressed up last night for the Jean Paul Gaultier party at NGV. \u201cDid you go?\u201d Murray-Smith asks me. \u201cIt was wild! That Melbourne arty set \u2013 when they really want to turn it on \u2013 do a very good job.\u201dAs does Murray-Smith. We\u2019re chatting today because the playwright is closing out 2014 with not one but two main-house premieres of her work: Sydney Theatre Company\u2019s Switzerland, a thriller about the US crime writer Patricia Highsmith, and at Melbourne Theatre Company, Pennsylvania Avenue, a sequel of sorts to the hugely successful Songs For Nobodies, once again starring Bernadette Robinson.Switzerland, in particular, seems to have caught people\u2019s imaginations, with critics calling it her best play in years and Sydney Opera House audiences giving it appreciative ovations. But as we sit down to talk a fortnight before its opening, Murray-Smith is in reflective mood. And no wonder. Professional successes aside, it has, she says matter-of-factly, been \u201ca terrible couple of years\u201d.First, she and her husband lost their close Melbourne friends Liam and Frankie Davison in the MH17 crash over Ukraine. And then Murray-Smith\u2019s mother, Nita, died at the age of 86, leaving her eldest daughter with 10,000 books \u2013 and a sense of loss the writer is still trying to articulate.\u201cHer death definitely invoked a sense of crisis in me,\u201d she says. \u201cYou know, just that terrible awakening that \u2013 um \u2013 the emphasis has to be put on the now.\u201d If this sounds like a mindfulness mantra, Murray-Smith knows it. \u201cBut actually, this has been quite a revelation to me this year.\u201d There is more to life than her next play.By any standards, Murray-Smith is a prolific playwright, with more than 20 plays to her name, the most popular of which, Honour, has been performed in more than 30 languages. They\u2019ve not all been well received \u2013 as Murray-Smith reminds me, the Guardian savaged her 2006 effort, Female of the Species. And she also says regretfully: \u201cI\u2019m one of only three [Australian] playwrights to make a living and whose work is done overseas.\u201dSwitzerland was commissioned by the Geffen Playhouse in LA, making its Sydney run the \u201cultimate out-of-town try-out\u201d. Murray-Smith first discovered Highsmith\u2019s novels in the hands of her mother on family holidays. When she later picked them up herself, she found the author as compelling as her characters: \u201cShe was a horrible person, incredibly difficult, misanthropic, nasty, vitriolic, full of resentment, paranoid, miserly. She was a really twisted psyche. But she was also very charismatic and very witty, very intelligent, very well read \u2013 with this amazing psychological insight.\u201dThis play is only Murray-Smith\u2019s second biographical work since her PhD thesis (loosely based on the Angry Penguins group her father, the Australian intellectual Stephen Murray-Smith, belonged to). What started out as a faithfully researched piece about Highsmith, played in early readings by Annette Benning, has became both a more fictionalised and more universal piece about \u201chow writers fall in love with their own characters \u2026 about writers writing in part, in some cases a large part, because writing is a way of controlling experience.\u201dI get the sense it was therapeutic to write. \u201cWell some people have psychiatrists, and some are writers,\u201d says Murray-Smith. \u201cSome have both!\u201d So is this a play about Murray-Smith as much as it is Highsmith? \u201cOh yeah, absolutely. Every play is about you even if there\u2019s no obvious connection. And often you don\u2019t know how until years later.\u201dShe cites her 2011 play The Gift, about a bohemian couple struggling between artistic pursuits and their role as parents. It was only sitting in the audience on opening night, says Murray-Smith \u2013 herself a mother of two sons \u2013 that she realised how close to home it was. \u201cAnd that was so shocking for me that I had to go to bed for two weeks. I couldn\u2019t even function, I was so appalled I\u2019d written that play.\u201dThe Gift was political as well as personal, she insists. \u201cMy feeling is that all plays are political.\u201d This from a writer often criticised for sticking to her own bourgois milieu. \u201cI don\u2019t think that you can make a writer respond responsible for political comment if that\u2019s not their voice,\u201d she counters. \u201cIf Brett [Sheeley, MTC artistic director] came to me and said I want you to write a play about refugees, I would love to write the play but I can\u2019t write that play. I don\u2019t know how to write that play.\u201dTo talk about responsibility is to use the wrong word, she says. \u201cAn artist\u2019s responsibility is to be true to who they are as an artist. If I tried to write a play about refugees it would end up being a really appalling piece of polemic.\u201d That\u2019s not to say she doesn\u2019t feel keenly political. Murray-Smith spends a lot of time teaching and doing outreach, with a belief that going into the community is the best way to develop and diversify the arts. \u201cThere is no theatre company that would not want to be engaging with artists who came from those worlds.\u201dThat theatres do not put on a wider range of plays comes down to two things, says Murray-Smith. One, that the Australian audience will always be a small one. Two (and this is not unrelated) that the arts are not elevated by government because, politically, they are of no use: \u201cArts are at the bottom of the barrel. It drives me insane.\u201dWhen the words Abbott administration come up, Murray-Smith lets out an involuntary sigh of disgust. \u201cThe government, particular the Liberal government (but I have to say that the Labor government has not been great either) are just incredibly short-sighted and see no votes in culture. Probably since Gough Whitlam, or perhaps Paul Keating, there has not been a strong sense of importance of Australian culture in political life.\u201d she says. \u201cAnd how sophisticated it is.\u201dCreatively, she says, Australia punches above its weight in pretty much every art form. \u201cI\u2019m constantly meeting people I didn\u2019t know in Melbourne building incredible buildings in China or doing concerts in Istanbul, people who are sought out across the world because they have a particular idiosyncratic talent. And there is really almost no political awareness of it.\u201dArguably this makes the Australian artist\u2019s life a more solitary one. Good writers \u2013 \u201cor true writers\u201d she corrects herself \u2013 have to be pretty brutal with themselves. \u201cAnd that can be incredibly distressing when you say: was it worth it? Is it worth it? And not just was it worth my time, but was it worth the actors, the theatre company, the artistic director, the builders of the set, the audience\u2019s not insubstantial out of pocket contributions \u2013 was it worth all of that? Maybe it wasn\u2019t.\u201dUltimately, however, Murray-Smith only has one answer for the way she has chosen to spend her life: \u201cI can\u2019t do anything else. I am a driven personality. I\u2019m a bit demented. I\u2019m an insomniac, thinking at all hours.\u201d And writing keeps the mental wolf from the door. \u201cAlthough the act of writing is profoundly irrational, there is a kind of self-preservation aspect too. There is no question, writing has saved my life. I\u2019ve had lots of emotionally difficult periods and writing is a way of not just organising experience but of making sense of it. And of being able to use the most difficult aspect of your life for a productive end.\u201dSydney Theatre Company\u2019s Switzerland is on at the Sydney Opera House Drama Theatre until 20 December. Melbourne Theatre Company\u2019s Pennsylvania Avenue is on at Southbank Theatre, The Sumner, until 23 December.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Arts policy", "Culture", "Australia news"], "title": "Joanna Murray-Smith \u2013\u00a0'writing has saved my life'"},{"date": "2015-03-18T16:35:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is to give Nigeria $380m (\u00a3260m) that was allegedly looted by the former military dictator Sani Abacha and stored in European bank accounts, officials announced on Tuesday.The transfer will be carried out under the supervision of the World Bank, ending 16 years of court wrangling.Abacha, who ruled Nigeria for five years after a 1993 coup, is believed to have stolen $4.3bn while in office, placing him among the ranks of Congo\u2019s Mobutu Sese Seko as one of Africa\u2019s most avaricious kleptocrats.Following his death from a sudden heart attack in 1998, the Nigerian government asked Switzerland to help it recover $2.2bn that he was said to have stashed in European bank accounts. The tax haven was forced to relax banking secrecy regulations after some landmark rulings.The $380m had been placed in several accounts abroad that were controlled by the Abacha family, which is considered a criminal organisation, the prosecutor\u2019s office in the Swiss capital, Geneva, said on Tuesday. It was seized in 2006 in Luxembourg following a request from Swiss authorities.The decision to return it to Nigeria follows a deal struck last July between the west Africa country\u2019s government and the Abacha family. Under the agreement, the funds will be confiscated and sent back to Nigeria, while the government will drop its case against the deceased dictator\u2019s son Abba Abacha.The greed of Abacha appalled even Nigerians used to plundering on a grand scale. After his death aged 54, his wife Maryam was caught trying to flee the country with 38 suitcases stuffed with cash. The $5m Peace Foundation set up by the family to sell \u201cAbacha-themed\u201d televisions, sandals, rice and soap later collapsed.Abacha was also notoriously brutal autocrat accused of countless human rights abuses. The hanging in 1995 of writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissidents caused worldwide revulsion.It would not be possible for African leaders to loot \u2026 if there were no countries willing to receive these fundsDr John-Mark Iyi, a Nigerian academic, was among students who demonstrated against Abacha on the night he took power, recalling student organisations were instantly banned. \u201cIt is more or less common knowledge that the Abacha regime was a criminal syndicate that looted Nigeria blind. His was the most brutal regime Nigeria ever had. People say he ruled with an iron fist; in my view that is an understatement. He ran hit squads, people disappeared and a whole lot of human rights violations took place.\u201dIyi, now based at at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, expressed satisfaction at the return of the funds but said Europe must take responsibility for effectively assisting Africa\u2019s kleptocrats. \u201cIt is a welcome development on the part of the Swiss government, but it is only one of several cases of looted funds awaiting return from European governments.\u201cIt would not be possible for African leaders to loot their national treasuries if there were no countries willing to receive these funds. If you preach transparency and accountability, you should not have the facility to transfer illicit funds to your own country.\u201dSwitzerland has previously returned to Nigeria more than $700m that Abacha hid in Swiss accounts \u2013 the first time European banks had returned looted money to an African country.Last month an African Union report found that the continent loses more than $50bn every year in illicit financial outflows as governments and multinational companies engage in fraudulent schemes aimed at avoiding tax payments to some of the world\u2019s poorest countries.In total, Africa lost about $850bn between 1970 and 2008, the report said. An estimated $217.7bn was illegally transferred out of Nigeria over that period, while Egypt lost $105.2bn and South Africa more than $81.8bn.", "tags": ["Nigeria", "Switzerland", "World Bank", "Africa", "Europe", "Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "World news"], "title": "Switzerland to return Sani Abacha 'loot' money to Nigeria"},{"date": "2015-03-18T16:35:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is to give Nigeria $380m (\u00a3260m) that was allegedly looted by the former military dictator Sani Abacha and stored in European bank accounts, officials announced on Tuesday.The transfer will be carried out under the supervision of the World Bank, ending 16 years of court wrangling.Abacha, who ruled Nigeria for five years after a 1993 coup, is believed to have stolen $4.3bn while in office, placing him among the ranks of Congo\u2019s Mobutu Sese Seko as one of Africa\u2019s most avaricious kleptocrats.Following his death from a sudden heart attack in 1998, the Nigerian government asked Switzerland to help it recover $2.2bn that he was said to have stashed in European bank accounts. The tax haven was forced to relax banking secrecy regulations after some landmark rulings.The $380m had been placed in several accounts abroad that were controlled by the Abacha family, which is considered a criminal organisation, the prosecutor\u2019s office in the Swiss capital, Geneva, said on Tuesday. It was seized in 2006 in Luxembourg following a request from Swiss authorities.The decision to return it to Nigeria follows a deal struck last July between the west Africa country\u2019s government and the Abacha family. Under the agreement, the funds will be confiscated and sent back to Nigeria, while the government will drop its case against the deceased dictator\u2019s son Abba Abacha.The greed of Abacha appalled even Nigerians used to plundering on a grand scale. After his death aged 54, his wife Maryam was caught trying to flee the country with 38 suitcases stuffed with cash. The $5m Peace Foundation set up by the family to sell \u201cAbacha-themed\u201d televisions, sandals, rice and soap later collapsed.Abacha was also notoriously brutal autocrat accused of countless human rights abuses. The hanging in 1995 of writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissidents caused worldwide revulsion.It would not be possible for African leaders to loot \u2026 if there were no countries willing to receive these fundsDr John-Mark Iyi, a Nigerian academic, was among students who demonstrated against Abacha on the night he took power, recalling student organisations were instantly banned. \u201cIt is more or less common knowledge that the Abacha regime was a criminal syndicate that looted Nigeria blind. His was the most brutal regime Nigeria ever had. People say he ruled with an iron fist; in my view that is an understatement. He ran hit squads, people disappeared and a whole lot of human rights violations took place.\u201dIyi, now based at at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, expressed satisfaction at the return of the funds but said Europe must take responsibility for effectively assisting Africa\u2019s kleptocrats. \u201cIt is a welcome development on the part of the Swiss government, but it is only one of several cases of looted funds awaiting return from European governments.\u201cIt would not be possible for African leaders to loot their national treasuries if there were no countries willing to receive these funds. If you preach transparency and accountability, you should not have the facility to transfer illicit funds to your own country.\u201dSwitzerland has previously returned to Nigeria more than $700m that Abacha hid in Swiss accounts \u2013 the first time European banks had returned looted money to an African country.Last month an African Union report found that the continent loses more than $50bn every year in illicit financial outflows as governments and multinational companies engage in fraudulent schemes aimed at avoiding tax payments to some of the world\u2019s poorest countries.In total, Africa lost about $850bn between 1970 and 2008, the report said. An estimated $217.7bn was illegally transferred out of Nigeria over that period, while Egypt lost $105.2bn and South Africa more than $81.8bn.", "tags": ["Nigeria", "Switzerland", "World Bank", "Africa", "Europe", "Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "World news"], "title": "Switzerland to return Sani Abacha 'loot' money to Nigeria"},{"date": "2015-03-18T06:00:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 10am and I am on a Swiss mountain holding a saw. My mission is to help build an igloo by 5pm, sleep in it and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 wake up next morning. It is the fourth annual Igloo Festival in the ski resort of in Adelboden, and teams of enthusiasts and novices gather at an altitude of 2,000m on the Engstligenalp plateau to spend their Saturday competing to see who can build the best igloo. Engstligenalp is the perfect location, since it\u2019s large enough to accommodate hundreds of igloos, if need be, and one of the few places that can guarantee an abundance of snow in March. Related: Satellite ski resorts \u2013 how to get Verbier snow for half the dough While fancy igloos have become popular as overnight options in ski resorts, the Igloo Festival is a chance to build and sleep in the real deal (unless you can rustle up a glass-roofed designer igloo with fur bedding in eight hours). Anyone can participate and there\u2019s no limit on team numbers \u2026 but the igloo has to be big enough to sleep the entire team. The well-heated Berghotel is within trudging distance for showering, storing luggage and, if your igloo-building skills prove inadequate, for sleeping.The ideal for the Igloo Festival came from its former sponsor, outdoor clothing firm Transa. In 2012, it attempted to set a Guinness world record in igloo building: 200 igloos with 400 participants. It only managed 60 igloos and 125 participants, but everyone had such a good time that the festival simply continued.There\u2019s already a circle of fledgling igloos when our five-strong team arrive at 10am, and experts and volunteers from The Alpine School, clothing specialist Sherpa Outdoor and the tourism office dart around offering guidance. An igloo with worryingly neat bricks is being built next to our spot by a father-and-son team. Bruno Schaub from the tourist office translates: \u201cHe\u2019s here because he wants to have a good time with his son.\u201dThe participants are mainly Swiss, though British, French, Italian and German teams have taken part. Many have built igloos before. A love of outdoor activities and the desire to do something different are common themes in today\u2019s igloo village. Related: The best places to stay in the Alps in summer: hotels, chalets and campsites To begin, we draw a circle on the ground using a stick and string as a giant compass. Sawing into the snow, we cut 20cm-thick bricks about the size of an A3 sheet, and place them in a circle, leaning slightly inwards. Rachel Rosser, events executive for the Ski Club of Great Britain, and Bruno saw the tops off the bricks on a diagonal so that the bricks will stack in a spiral. While we pack snow into the cracks, Bruno places the bricks until he has built himself into the igloo. Now the job is to dig an entrance (or, for Bruno, an exit). An igloo\u2019s entrance has to sit below the sleeping platform so the cold air sinks and the space stays cosy.In an attempt to earn \u201ccreativity points\u201d we make a snowman head for the top of the igloo, with oranges for eyes, a pear nose and a Twix mouth. But thing go awry: Rachel loses her grip and drops the head on the igloo, which leaves a gaping hole in the side. After howling and rending our garments, we manage to repair it before the 5pm deadline.Night falls, and we gather around the igloo bar, a small wall of snow bricks in the centre of the circle of igloos. Participants are served a nightcap of gl\u00fchwein (mulled wine), and as we drink we guess which igloo will snag the prizes: Sherpa Outdoor outfits, ski passes, bottles of wine, dinner in the Fondue Igloo and tickets to the Adelboden Adventure Park. Most bet on the preposterously huge double igloo with an adjoining corridor, built by a team celebrating a birthday, but I\u2019m rooting for the one made to look like a giant turtle.With trepidation, Rachel and I (the only two to brave a night in our igloo) get ready for \u201cbed\u201d. I\u2019m by the wall that we had to rebuild after \u201cHead Gate\u201d. It\u2019s caving in and looks like it would collapse if a pigeon landed on it. I give it a test poke \u2013 it\u2019s frozen solid.Our hooded sleeping bags have a fleece bag, a synthetic down sack and a plastic outer layer. I zip up, hood up, and wriggle in. Rachel\u2019s bleatings about the cold are muffled, but her snoring soon comes loud and clear. I feel like I\u2019m cowering in a snowman\u2019s armpit. I\u2019m not sleeping; I\u2019m playing dead. Related: Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland Sealed inside the sleeping bag, I find my oxygen supply runs out fast. I start panting and get a headache, and figure that poking my head out for a few gulps of the thin alpine air are worth a blast of cold. And a blast is what I get: our slapdash packing left cracks between some of the bricks and the wind is blowing through. Then claustrophobia kicks in. The once blue-and-sparkly igloo ceiling is now grey and black and closing in. The wind gusts through the cracks. I wipe snowflakes off my cheek.At 3:54am, I nudge the other body bag, \u201cRachel. It\u2019s snowing on my face.\u201d\u201cYeah, I can\u2019t stop shivering,\u201d she says through chattering teeth, \u201ccan we leave?\u201dWe pull on our boots and layers and headtorches, before fireman-crawling through the tunnel into -20C windchill. We make the 15-minute walk back to Berghotel, but don\u2019t have the heart to crash into the dorm and wake our teammates for the sake of two hours\u2019 sleep, so we settle ourselves the empty hotel bar, take dark-eyed selfies for posterity, and wait for the sun to come up. We may as well get an incredible sunrise out of this.At 6:40am that\u2019s just what we get. We stand by the ski lift as it delivers early morning skiers, our bloodshot eyes widening at the blue mist over the village below, the fading crescent moon, and the red skies rising over the mountains. Worth five hours trying to sleep in a windy freezer? Yes.At breakfast with our well-rested teammates, we\u2019re sleep-deprived and thawing more slowly than a turkey in the fridge, but our spirits are high. At 9am, we\u2019re awarded 14th place out of 22. The turtle igloo comes second, pipped at the post by the double with the corridor. No matter: plans for next year\u2019s well-packed igloo, with infinity pool, are already in place.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com) and Adelboden-Frutigen Tourism (adelboden.ch). The Igloo Festival takes place on a Saturday in mid-March every year, 9am-5pm. Packages cost from \u00a359 (self-catering), including lift pass to Engstligenalp, welcome pack, instructions, equipment and nightcap. The \u00a3100 Luxury option adds lunch, dinner and breakfast in the nearby BergHotel, but your bed is in your igloo", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Adventure travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Block rockin\u2019 feats: at Adelboden Igloo Festival, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-03-18T16:35:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is to give Nigeria $380m (\u00a3260m) that was allegedly looted by the former military dictator Sani Abacha and stored in European bank accounts, officials announced on Tuesday.The transfer will be carried out under the supervision of the World Bank, ending 16 years of court wrangling.Abacha, who ruled Nigeria for five years after a 1993 coup, is believed to have stolen $4.3bn while in office, placing him among the ranks of Congo\u2019s Mobutu Sese Seko as one of Africa\u2019s most avaricious kleptocrats.Following his death from a sudden heart attack in 1998, the Nigerian government asked Switzerland to help it recover $2.2bn that he was said to have stashed in European bank accounts. The tax haven was forced to relax banking secrecy regulations after some landmark rulings.The $380m had been placed in several accounts abroad that were controlled by the Abacha family, which is considered a criminal organisation, the prosecutor\u2019s office in the Swiss capital, Geneva, said on Tuesday. It was seized in 2006 in Luxembourg following a request from Swiss authorities.The decision to return it to Nigeria follows a deal struck last July between the west Africa country\u2019s government and the Abacha family. Under the agreement, the funds will be confiscated and sent back to Nigeria, while the government will drop its case against the deceased dictator\u2019s son Abba Abacha.The greed of Abacha appalled even Nigerians used to plundering on a grand scale. After his death aged 54, his wife Maryam was caught trying to flee the country with 38 suitcases stuffed with cash. The $5m Peace Foundation set up by the family to sell \u201cAbacha-themed\u201d televisions, sandals, rice and soap later collapsed.Abacha was also notoriously brutal autocrat accused of countless human rights abuses. The hanging in 1995 of writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissidents caused worldwide revulsion.It would not be possible for African leaders to loot \u2026 if there were no countries willing to receive these fundsDr John-Mark Iyi, a Nigerian academic, was among students who demonstrated against Abacha on the night he took power, recalling student organisations were instantly banned. \u201cIt is more or less common knowledge that the Abacha regime was a criminal syndicate that looted Nigeria blind. His was the most brutal regime Nigeria ever had. People say he ruled with an iron fist; in my view that is an understatement. He ran hit squads, people disappeared and a whole lot of human rights violations took place.\u201dIyi, now based at at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, expressed satisfaction at the return of the funds but said Europe must take responsibility for effectively assisting Africa\u2019s kleptocrats. \u201cIt is a welcome development on the part of the Swiss government, but it is only one of several cases of looted funds awaiting return from European governments.\u201cIt would not be possible for African leaders to loot their national treasuries if there were no countries willing to receive these funds. If you preach transparency and accountability, you should not have the facility to transfer illicit funds to your own country.\u201dSwitzerland has previously returned to Nigeria more than $700m that Abacha hid in Swiss accounts \u2013 the first time European banks had returned looted money to an African country.Last month an African Union report found that the continent loses more than $50bn every year in illicit financial outflows as governments and multinational companies engage in fraudulent schemes aimed at avoiding tax payments to some of the world\u2019s poorest countries.In total, Africa lost about $850bn between 1970 and 2008, the report said. An estimated $217.7bn was illegally transferred out of Nigeria over that period, while Egypt lost $105.2bn and South Africa more than $81.8bn.", "tags": ["Nigeria", "Switzerland", "World Bank", "Africa", "Europe", "Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "World news"], "title": "Switzerland to return Sani Abacha 'loot' money to Nigeria"},{"date": "2015-03-18T06:00:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 10am and I am on a Swiss mountain holding a saw. My mission is to help build an igloo by 5pm, sleep in it and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 wake up next morning. It is the fourth annual Igloo Festival in the ski resort of in Adelboden, and teams of enthusiasts and novices gather at an altitude of 2,000m on the Engstligenalp plateau to spend their Saturday competing to see who can build the best igloo. Engstligenalp is the perfect location, since it\u2019s large enough to accommodate hundreds of igloos, if need be, and one of the few places that can guarantee an abundance of snow in March. Related: Satellite ski resorts \u2013 how to get Verbier snow for half the dough While fancy igloos have become popular as overnight options in ski resorts, the Igloo Festival is a chance to build and sleep in the real deal (unless you can rustle up a glass-roofed designer igloo with fur bedding in eight hours). Anyone can participate and there\u2019s no limit on team numbers \u2026 but the igloo has to be big enough to sleep the entire team. The well-heated Berghotel is within trudging distance for showering, storing luggage and, if your igloo-building skills prove inadequate, for sleeping.The ideal for the Igloo Festival came from its former sponsor, outdoor clothing firm Transa. In 2012, it attempted to set a Guinness world record in igloo building: 200 igloos with 400 participants. It only managed 60 igloos and 125 participants, but everyone had such a good time that the festival simply continued.There\u2019s already a circle of fledgling igloos when our five-strong team arrive at 10am, and experts and volunteers from The Alpine School, clothing specialist Sherpa Outdoor and the tourism office dart around offering guidance. An igloo with worryingly neat bricks is being built next to our spot by a father-and-son team. Bruno Schaub from the tourist office translates: \u201cHe\u2019s here because he wants to have a good time with his son.\u201dThe participants are mainly Swiss, though British, French, Italian and German teams have taken part. Many have built igloos before. A love of outdoor activities and the desire to do something different are common themes in today\u2019s igloo village. Related: The best places to stay in the Alps in summer: hotels, chalets and campsites To begin, we draw a circle on the ground using a stick and string as a giant compass. Sawing into the snow, we cut 20cm-thick bricks about the size of an A3 sheet, and place them in a circle, leaning slightly inwards. Rachel Rosser, events executive for the Ski Club of Great Britain, and Bruno saw the tops off the bricks on a diagonal so that the bricks will stack in a spiral. While we pack snow into the cracks, Bruno places the bricks until he has built himself into the igloo. Now the job is to dig an entrance (or, for Bruno, an exit). An igloo\u2019s entrance has to sit below the sleeping platform so the cold air sinks and the space stays cosy.In an attempt to earn \u201ccreativity points\u201d we make a snowman head for the top of the igloo, with oranges for eyes, a pear nose and a Twix mouth. But thing go awry: Rachel loses her grip and drops the head on the igloo, which leaves a gaping hole in the side. After howling and rending our garments, we manage to repair it before the 5pm deadline.Night falls, and we gather around the igloo bar, a small wall of snow bricks in the centre of the circle of igloos. Participants are served a nightcap of gl\u00fchwein (mulled wine), and as we drink we guess which igloo will snag the prizes: Sherpa Outdoor outfits, ski passes, bottles of wine, dinner in the Fondue Igloo and tickets to the Adelboden Adventure Park. Most bet on the preposterously huge double igloo with an adjoining corridor, built by a team celebrating a birthday, but I\u2019m rooting for the one made to look like a giant turtle.With trepidation, Rachel and I (the only two to brave a night in our igloo) get ready for \u201cbed\u201d. I\u2019m by the wall that we had to rebuild after \u201cHead Gate\u201d. It\u2019s caving in and looks like it would collapse if a pigeon landed on it. I give it a test poke \u2013 it\u2019s frozen solid.Our hooded sleeping bags have a fleece bag, a synthetic down sack and a plastic outer layer. I zip up, hood up, and wriggle in. Rachel\u2019s bleatings about the cold are muffled, but her snoring soon comes loud and clear. I feel like I\u2019m cowering in a snowman\u2019s armpit. I\u2019m not sleeping; I\u2019m playing dead. Related: Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland Sealed inside the sleeping bag, I find my oxygen supply runs out fast. I start panting and get a headache, and figure that poking my head out for a few gulps of the thin alpine air are worth a blast of cold. And a blast is what I get: our slapdash packing left cracks between some of the bricks and the wind is blowing through. Then claustrophobia kicks in. The once blue-and-sparkly igloo ceiling is now grey and black and closing in. The wind gusts through the cracks. I wipe snowflakes off my cheek.At 3:54am, I nudge the other body bag, \u201cRachel. It\u2019s snowing on my face.\u201d\u201cYeah, I can\u2019t stop shivering,\u201d she says through chattering teeth, \u201ccan we leave?\u201dWe pull on our boots and layers and headtorches, before fireman-crawling through the tunnel into -20C windchill. We make the 15-minute walk back to Berghotel, but don\u2019t have the heart to crash into the dorm and wake our teammates for the sake of two hours\u2019 sleep, so we settle ourselves the empty hotel bar, take dark-eyed selfies for posterity, and wait for the sun to come up. We may as well get an incredible sunrise out of this.At 6:40am that\u2019s just what we get. We stand by the ski lift as it delivers early morning skiers, our bloodshot eyes widening at the blue mist over the village below, the fading crescent moon, and the red skies rising over the mountains. Worth five hours trying to sleep in a windy freezer? Yes.At breakfast with our well-rested teammates, we\u2019re sleep-deprived and thawing more slowly than a turkey in the fridge, but our spirits are high. At 9am, we\u2019re awarded 14th place out of 22. The turtle igloo comes second, pipped at the post by the double with the corridor. No matter: plans for next year\u2019s well-packed igloo, with infinity pool, are already in place.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com) and Adelboden-Frutigen Tourism (adelboden.ch). The Igloo Festival takes place on a Saturday in mid-March every year, 9am-5pm. Packages cost from \u00a359 (self-catering), including lift pass to Engstligenalp, welcome pack, instructions, equipment and nightcap. The \u00a3100 Luxury option adds lunch, dinner and breakfast in the nearby BergHotel, but your bed is in your igloo", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Adventure travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Block rockin\u2019 feats: at Adelboden Igloo Festival, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-01-31T07:00:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Electro, dubstep, nu disco, footwork, hip-hop, UK funky, deep house ... napcore \u2026 Just a handful of the dance music genres that rocked my snowboard boots last March at DJ Gilles Peterson\u2019s Worldwide festival at Leysin in the Swiss Alps.Apart from that last one, that is. Napcore was the pre-dinner snooze strategy my ski buddy and I adopted to make sure we experienced Leysin\u2019s pistes to the max, as well as the event\u2019s sonic riches.\u201cHands up,\u201d Peterson told me at the event. \u201cAt the first edition, in 2013, we made some schoolboy errors. We underestimated how much people would want to ski and board, and how tired that makes you. So, with our parties starting at midnight and running till 4am or later, we had some zombies on our hands. This time we\u2019ve put more focus on the outdoor, afternoon apr\u00e8s-ski sets, plus earlier smaller-scale club nights, so the sporty ones can get up in the morning.\u201dThis relaxed programming approach drew around 600 attendees to Leysin last year, including 200 locals, forming a laid-back and like-minded music-loving community.\u201cEveryone\u2019s here because they actively seek out this kind of music,\u201d Adam, a fresh-faced marketer from London told me, \u201cso they already have a passion in common.\u201d\u201cAnd the small scale makes it really friendly,\u201d added Nina, a GP and Adam\u2019s new BFF since they met at one of the parties. \u201cYou don\u2019t even need to swap numbers. We just say \u2018See you later\u2019, and somewhere around town, or on the terrace of the Les Fers restaurant [on the slopes where Parisian DJs are putting on soul, funk and disco daytime sets], it just happens.\u201dBuilt on the steep, south-facing slopes of the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef, high above the Rh\u00f4ne valley, Leysin\u2019s distinctive architecture speaks of its history. The higher reaches, many switchbacks above the traditional wooden chalets at its base, are studded with palatial belle \u00e9poque sanatoriums, and it is bisected by an imposing stone viaduct that hauls cog trains up from the valley floor. Its look is part Wes Anderson\u2019s Grand Budapest Hotel, part Lowry townscape.As a ski resort, it\u2019s no Zermatt, although the large freestyle park that most years hosts the Champs, Europe\u2019s oldest snowboarding competition, is world-class. But its modest 60km of predominantly red and blue pistes cover a compact basin beneath the sheer cliffs at the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef\u2019s summit \u2013 offering glimpses of Lake Geneva, Mont Blanc and the Eiger \u2013 then roll down wooded lower slopes facing the Dents du Midi.There\u2019s another 40km in the next-door village of Les Mosses when conditions are good enough for the shuttle bus to run, and the 3,000m glacier area of Les Diablerets is 30km away \u2013 a feasible day out. Related: European festival awards: eastern Europe takes top prizes Late-season lift tickets are negotiated to sweeten prices for Worldwide guests \u2013 a four-day lift and party pass cost \u20ac80, or \u20ac120 for the week. The deal is a steal for beginners and intermediates though no contender for \u201cseason\u2019s main ski trip\u201d for the more experienced.The 2015 festival, from 26-29 March, is expecting to double the number of guests and has already confirmed some key acts, such as Washington DC\u2019s emerging soul-jazz master Diggs Duke, French guitar-laced house duo Kuage, house and garage star Julio Bashmore, jazzy grime trickster Swindle and dub-reggae don David Rodigan.The free apr\u00e8s-ski sets, which were highlights last year, will be repeated. \u201cThe apr\u00e8s sessions are the magic for me,\u201d says Peterson. \u201cThere\u2019s nothing like a cold beer at the end of a day\u2019s skiing when you\u2019ve got great energy from the slopes, and if you can combine that with brilliant music and fun people \u2026 it doesn\u2019t get much better.\u201d Winding up the 2014 festival\u2019s final day, his own set on the terrace of the Bel Air Hotel was a joyous avalanche of fat beats tumbling from one of Worldwide\u2019s signature precision sound systems that sent the crowd \u2013 three crowd-surfing giant penguins, a Chewbacca and a slightly weird number of Camilla Parker-Bowles masks among them \u2013 into raptures.\u201cEffortless, eclectic, uplifting genius,\u201d said Rui, a Portuguese sound designer and part-time DJ visiting for his second year, \u201cGilles Peterson should rule the world.\u201d\u2022 More details at worldwidefestival.com and leysin.ch. Flights from London City to Geneva provided by Swiss (swiss.com), returns from \u00a399. Train travel from Geneva airport to Leysin costs \u00a334.70 return (sbb.ch). Accommodation provided by Mercure Classic Hotel (classic-hotel.ch, doubles from \u00a377 B&B)", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Festivals", "Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Music festivals", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-03-18T16:35:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is to give Nigeria $380m (\u00a3260m) that was allegedly looted by the former military dictator Sani Abacha and stored in European bank accounts, officials announced on Tuesday.The transfer will be carried out under the supervision of the World Bank, ending 16 years of court wrangling.Abacha, who ruled Nigeria for five years after a 1993 coup, is believed to have stolen $4.3bn while in office, placing him among the ranks of Congo\u2019s Mobutu Sese Seko as one of Africa\u2019s most avaricious kleptocrats.Following his death from a sudden heart attack in 1998, the Nigerian government asked Switzerland to help it recover $2.2bn that he was said to have stashed in European bank accounts. The tax haven was forced to relax banking secrecy regulations after some landmark rulings.The $380m had been placed in several accounts abroad that were controlled by the Abacha family, which is considered a criminal organisation, the prosecutor\u2019s office in the Swiss capital, Geneva, said on Tuesday. It was seized in 2006 in Luxembourg following a request from Swiss authorities.The decision to return it to Nigeria follows a deal struck last July between the west Africa country\u2019s government and the Abacha family. Under the agreement, the funds will be confiscated and sent back to Nigeria, while the government will drop its case against the deceased dictator\u2019s son Abba Abacha.The greed of Abacha appalled even Nigerians used to plundering on a grand scale. After his death aged 54, his wife Maryam was caught trying to flee the country with 38 suitcases stuffed with cash. The $5m Peace Foundation set up by the family to sell \u201cAbacha-themed\u201d televisions, sandals, rice and soap later collapsed.Abacha was also notoriously brutal autocrat accused of countless human rights abuses. The hanging in 1995 of writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissidents caused worldwide revulsion.It would not be possible for African leaders to loot \u2026 if there were no countries willing to receive these fundsDr John-Mark Iyi, a Nigerian academic, was among students who demonstrated against Abacha on the night he took power, recalling student organisations were instantly banned. \u201cIt is more or less common knowledge that the Abacha regime was a criminal syndicate that looted Nigeria blind. His was the most brutal regime Nigeria ever had. People say he ruled with an iron fist; in my view that is an understatement. He ran hit squads, people disappeared and a whole lot of human rights violations took place.\u201dIyi, now based at at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, expressed satisfaction at the return of the funds but said Europe must take responsibility for effectively assisting Africa\u2019s kleptocrats. \u201cIt is a welcome development on the part of the Swiss government, but it is only one of several cases of looted funds awaiting return from European governments.\u201cIt would not be possible for African leaders to loot their national treasuries if there were no countries willing to receive these funds. If you preach transparency and accountability, you should not have the facility to transfer illicit funds to your own country.\u201dSwitzerland has previously returned to Nigeria more than $700m that Abacha hid in Swiss accounts \u2013 the first time European banks had returned looted money to an African country.Last month an African Union report found that the continent loses more than $50bn every year in illicit financial outflows as governments and multinational companies engage in fraudulent schemes aimed at avoiding tax payments to some of the world\u2019s poorest countries.In total, Africa lost about $850bn between 1970 and 2008, the report said. An estimated $217.7bn was illegally transferred out of Nigeria over that period, while Egypt lost $105.2bn and South Africa more than $81.8bn.", "tags": ["Nigeria", "Switzerland", "World Bank", "Africa", "Europe", "Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "World news"], "title": "Switzerland to return Sani Abacha 'loot' money to Nigeria"},{"date": "2015-03-18T06:00:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 10am and I am on a Swiss mountain holding a saw. My mission is to help build an igloo by 5pm, sleep in it and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 wake up next morning. It is the fourth annual Igloo Festival in the ski resort of in Adelboden, and teams of enthusiasts and novices gather at an altitude of 2,000m on the Engstligenalp plateau to spend their Saturday competing to see who can build the best igloo. Engstligenalp is the perfect location, since it\u2019s large enough to accommodate hundreds of igloos, if need be, and one of the few places that can guarantee an abundance of snow in March. Related: Satellite ski resorts \u2013 how to get Verbier snow for half the dough While fancy igloos have become popular as overnight options in ski resorts, the Igloo Festival is a chance to build and sleep in the real deal (unless you can rustle up a glass-roofed designer igloo with fur bedding in eight hours). Anyone can participate and there\u2019s no limit on team numbers \u2026 but the igloo has to be big enough to sleep the entire team. The well-heated Berghotel is within trudging distance for showering, storing luggage and, if your igloo-building skills prove inadequate, for sleeping.The ideal for the Igloo Festival came from its former sponsor, outdoor clothing firm Transa. In 2012, it attempted to set a Guinness world record in igloo building: 200 igloos with 400 participants. It only managed 60 igloos and 125 participants, but everyone had such a good time that the festival simply continued.There\u2019s already a circle of fledgling igloos when our five-strong team arrive at 10am, and experts and volunteers from The Alpine School, clothing specialist Sherpa Outdoor and the tourism office dart around offering guidance. An igloo with worryingly neat bricks is being built next to our spot by a father-and-son team. Bruno Schaub from the tourist office translates: \u201cHe\u2019s here because he wants to have a good time with his son.\u201dThe participants are mainly Swiss, though British, French, Italian and German teams have taken part. Many have built igloos before. A love of outdoor activities and the desire to do something different are common themes in today\u2019s igloo village. Related: The best places to stay in the Alps in summer: hotels, chalets and campsites To begin, we draw a circle on the ground using a stick and string as a giant compass. Sawing into the snow, we cut 20cm-thick bricks about the size of an A3 sheet, and place them in a circle, leaning slightly inwards. Rachel Rosser, events executive for the Ski Club of Great Britain, and Bruno saw the tops off the bricks on a diagonal so that the bricks will stack in a spiral. While we pack snow into the cracks, Bruno places the bricks until he has built himself into the igloo. Now the job is to dig an entrance (or, for Bruno, an exit). An igloo\u2019s entrance has to sit below the sleeping platform so the cold air sinks and the space stays cosy.In an attempt to earn \u201ccreativity points\u201d we make a snowman head for the top of the igloo, with oranges for eyes, a pear nose and a Twix mouth. But thing go awry: Rachel loses her grip and drops the head on the igloo, which leaves a gaping hole in the side. After howling and rending our garments, we manage to repair it before the 5pm deadline.Night falls, and we gather around the igloo bar, a small wall of snow bricks in the centre of the circle of igloos. Participants are served a nightcap of gl\u00fchwein (mulled wine), and as we drink we guess which igloo will snag the prizes: Sherpa Outdoor outfits, ski passes, bottles of wine, dinner in the Fondue Igloo and tickets to the Adelboden Adventure Park. Most bet on the preposterously huge double igloo with an adjoining corridor, built by a team celebrating a birthday, but I\u2019m rooting for the one made to look like a giant turtle.With trepidation, Rachel and I (the only two to brave a night in our igloo) get ready for \u201cbed\u201d. I\u2019m by the wall that we had to rebuild after \u201cHead Gate\u201d. It\u2019s caving in and looks like it would collapse if a pigeon landed on it. I give it a test poke \u2013 it\u2019s frozen solid.Our hooded sleeping bags have a fleece bag, a synthetic down sack and a plastic outer layer. I zip up, hood up, and wriggle in. Rachel\u2019s bleatings about the cold are muffled, but her snoring soon comes loud and clear. I feel like I\u2019m cowering in a snowman\u2019s armpit. I\u2019m not sleeping; I\u2019m playing dead. Related: Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland Sealed inside the sleeping bag, I find my oxygen supply runs out fast. I start panting and get a headache, and figure that poking my head out for a few gulps of the thin alpine air are worth a blast of cold. And a blast is what I get: our slapdash packing left cracks between some of the bricks and the wind is blowing through. Then claustrophobia kicks in. The once blue-and-sparkly igloo ceiling is now grey and black and closing in. The wind gusts through the cracks. I wipe snowflakes off my cheek.At 3:54am, I nudge the other body bag, \u201cRachel. It\u2019s snowing on my face.\u201d\u201cYeah, I can\u2019t stop shivering,\u201d she says through chattering teeth, \u201ccan we leave?\u201dWe pull on our boots and layers and headtorches, before fireman-crawling through the tunnel into -20C windchill. We make the 15-minute walk back to Berghotel, but don\u2019t have the heart to crash into the dorm and wake our teammates for the sake of two hours\u2019 sleep, so we settle ourselves the empty hotel bar, take dark-eyed selfies for posterity, and wait for the sun to come up. We may as well get an incredible sunrise out of this.At 6:40am that\u2019s just what we get. We stand by the ski lift as it delivers early morning skiers, our bloodshot eyes widening at the blue mist over the village below, the fading crescent moon, and the red skies rising over the mountains. Worth five hours trying to sleep in a windy freezer? Yes.At breakfast with our well-rested teammates, we\u2019re sleep-deprived and thawing more slowly than a turkey in the fridge, but our spirits are high. At 9am, we\u2019re awarded 14th place out of 22. The turtle igloo comes second, pipped at the post by the double with the corridor. No matter: plans for next year\u2019s well-packed igloo, with infinity pool, are already in place.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com) and Adelboden-Frutigen Tourism (adelboden.ch). The Igloo Festival takes place on a Saturday in mid-March every year, 9am-5pm. Packages cost from \u00a359 (self-catering), including lift pass to Engstligenalp, welcome pack, instructions, equipment and nightcap. The \u00a3100 Luxury option adds lunch, dinner and breakfast in the nearby BergHotel, but your bed is in your igloo", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Adventure travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Block rockin\u2019 feats: at Adelboden Igloo Festival, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-01-31T07:00:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Electro, dubstep, nu disco, footwork, hip-hop, UK funky, deep house ... napcore \u2026 Just a handful of the dance music genres that rocked my snowboard boots last March at DJ Gilles Peterson\u2019s Worldwide festival at Leysin in the Swiss Alps.Apart from that last one, that is. Napcore was the pre-dinner snooze strategy my ski buddy and I adopted to make sure we experienced Leysin\u2019s pistes to the max, as well as the event\u2019s sonic riches.\u201cHands up,\u201d Peterson told me at the event. \u201cAt the first edition, in 2013, we made some schoolboy errors. We underestimated how much people would want to ski and board, and how tired that makes you. So, with our parties starting at midnight and running till 4am or later, we had some zombies on our hands. This time we\u2019ve put more focus on the outdoor, afternoon apr\u00e8s-ski sets, plus earlier smaller-scale club nights, so the sporty ones can get up in the morning.\u201dThis relaxed programming approach drew around 600 attendees to Leysin last year, including 200 locals, forming a laid-back and like-minded music-loving community.\u201cEveryone\u2019s here because they actively seek out this kind of music,\u201d Adam, a fresh-faced marketer from London told me, \u201cso they already have a passion in common.\u201d\u201cAnd the small scale makes it really friendly,\u201d added Nina, a GP and Adam\u2019s new BFF since they met at one of the parties. \u201cYou don\u2019t even need to swap numbers. We just say \u2018See you later\u2019, and somewhere around town, or on the terrace of the Les Fers restaurant [on the slopes where Parisian DJs are putting on soul, funk and disco daytime sets], it just happens.\u201dBuilt on the steep, south-facing slopes of the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef, high above the Rh\u00f4ne valley, Leysin\u2019s distinctive architecture speaks of its history. The higher reaches, many switchbacks above the traditional wooden chalets at its base, are studded with palatial belle \u00e9poque sanatoriums, and it is bisected by an imposing stone viaduct that hauls cog trains up from the valley floor. Its look is part Wes Anderson\u2019s Grand Budapest Hotel, part Lowry townscape.As a ski resort, it\u2019s no Zermatt, although the large freestyle park that most years hosts the Champs, Europe\u2019s oldest snowboarding competition, is world-class. But its modest 60km of predominantly red and blue pistes cover a compact basin beneath the sheer cliffs at the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef\u2019s summit \u2013 offering glimpses of Lake Geneva, Mont Blanc and the Eiger \u2013 then roll down wooded lower slopes facing the Dents du Midi.There\u2019s another 40km in the next-door village of Les Mosses when conditions are good enough for the shuttle bus to run, and the 3,000m glacier area of Les Diablerets is 30km away \u2013 a feasible day out. Related: European festival awards: eastern Europe takes top prizes Late-season lift tickets are negotiated to sweeten prices for Worldwide guests \u2013 a four-day lift and party pass cost \u20ac80, or \u20ac120 for the week. The deal is a steal for beginners and intermediates though no contender for \u201cseason\u2019s main ski trip\u201d for the more experienced.The 2015 festival, from 26-29 March, is expecting to double the number of guests and has already confirmed some key acts, such as Washington DC\u2019s emerging soul-jazz master Diggs Duke, French guitar-laced house duo Kuage, house and garage star Julio Bashmore, jazzy grime trickster Swindle and dub-reggae don David Rodigan.The free apr\u00e8s-ski sets, which were highlights last year, will be repeated. \u201cThe apr\u00e8s sessions are the magic for me,\u201d says Peterson. \u201cThere\u2019s nothing like a cold beer at the end of a day\u2019s skiing when you\u2019ve got great energy from the slopes, and if you can combine that with brilliant music and fun people \u2026 it doesn\u2019t get much better.\u201d Winding up the 2014 festival\u2019s final day, his own set on the terrace of the Bel Air Hotel was a joyous avalanche of fat beats tumbling from one of Worldwide\u2019s signature precision sound systems that sent the crowd \u2013 three crowd-surfing giant penguins, a Chewbacca and a slightly weird number of Camilla Parker-Bowles masks among them \u2013 into raptures.\u201cEffortless, eclectic, uplifting genius,\u201d said Rui, a Portuguese sound designer and part-time DJ visiting for his second year, \u201cGilles Peterson should rule the world.\u201d\u2022 More details at worldwidefestival.com and leysin.ch. Flights from London City to Geneva provided by Swiss (swiss.com), returns from \u00a399. Train travel from Geneva airport to Leysin costs \u00a334.70 return (sbb.ch). Accommodation provided by Mercure Classic Hotel (classic-hotel.ch, doubles from \u00a377 B&B)", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Festivals", "Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Music festivals", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-03-09T10:20:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Reports in the Iranian press today are saying that the next round of the Iran nuclear negotiations are going to take place in Lausanne, Switzerland. If true, and the Iranian media have usually been reliable on such logistical details, it will extend a tour of luxury hotel destinations the long-running talks have taken in, in the wake of Vienna, Geneva and Montreux. Clearly, the negotiators from the seven countries (and EU) taking part feel they deserve a certain degree of comfort for the very long hours they have put in so far.This will be the last negotiating round before the Persian New Year, Nowruz, on March 21, though the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, has said is he prepared to soldier on at the expense of family festivities. Western negotiators say that this five-day session is intended to be the decisive round for producing a framework agreement. At the moment, there are no plans for a further round, and if progress is being made, they diplomats will extend this session, most likely in the presence of foreign ministers, rather than adjourn.We have heard this several times before. These negotiations on the future scope of Iran\u2019s nuclear programme have bulldozed two previous deadlines. The end-March target for a framework agreement, laid down by foreign ministers when the last deadline was missed in November, is supposed to be bolstered by political urgency supplied by an impatience and sceptical Congress. The Senate had given the Obama administration until March 24 to come up with a framework. But even that looks a bit fuzzy now. As Politico notes, the Senate goes into recess three days after that date until April 13, so the diplomats do in theory have a few more weeks. The final deadline for a full deal with all the details worked out, is not until the end of June.However, while the dates may get blurry, western negotiators say that the framework agreement when it comes will have to be a lot more than a statement of intent. It will have to include the main parameters and numbers, including the crucial limits on Iranian uranium enrichment capacity and a timetable for lifting sanctions. Even if that is agreed, the diplomats warn, the deal could still be derailed when it comes to do filling in the details afterwards. It is only if and when that is done that this diplomatic marathon can be said to have reached the finishing line. ", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Switzerland"], "title": "Next (and supposedly decisive) Iran nuclear talks due to start on Sunday in Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-03-18T16:35:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is to give Nigeria $380m (\u00a3260m) that was allegedly looted by the former military dictator Sani Abacha and stored in European bank accounts, officials announced on Tuesday.The transfer will be carried out under the supervision of the World Bank, ending 16 years of court wrangling.Abacha, who ruled Nigeria for five years after a 1993 coup, is believed to have stolen $4.3bn while in office, placing him among the ranks of Congo\u2019s Mobutu Sese Seko as one of Africa\u2019s most avaricious kleptocrats.Following his death from a sudden heart attack in 1998, the Nigerian government asked Switzerland to help it recover $2.2bn that he was said to have stashed in European bank accounts. The tax haven was forced to relax banking secrecy regulations after some landmark rulings.The $380m had been placed in several accounts abroad that were controlled by the Abacha family, which is considered a criminal organisation, the prosecutor\u2019s office in the Swiss capital, Geneva, said on Tuesday. It was seized in 2006 in Luxembourg following a request from Swiss authorities.The decision to return it to Nigeria follows a deal struck last July between the west Africa country\u2019s government and the Abacha family. Under the agreement, the funds will be confiscated and sent back to Nigeria, while the government will drop its case against the deceased dictator\u2019s son Abba Abacha.The greed of Abacha appalled even Nigerians used to plundering on a grand scale. After his death aged 54, his wife Maryam was caught trying to flee the country with 38 suitcases stuffed with cash. The $5m Peace Foundation set up by the family to sell \u201cAbacha-themed\u201d televisions, sandals, rice and soap later collapsed.Abacha was also notoriously brutal autocrat accused of countless human rights abuses. The hanging in 1995 of writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissidents caused worldwide revulsion.It would not be possible for African leaders to loot \u2026 if there were no countries willing to receive these fundsDr John-Mark Iyi, a Nigerian academic, was among students who demonstrated against Abacha on the night he took power, recalling student organisations were instantly banned. \u201cIt is more or less common knowledge that the Abacha regime was a criminal syndicate that looted Nigeria blind. His was the most brutal regime Nigeria ever had. People say he ruled with an iron fist; in my view that is an understatement. He ran hit squads, people disappeared and a whole lot of human rights violations took place.\u201dIyi, now based at at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, expressed satisfaction at the return of the funds but said Europe must take responsibility for effectively assisting Africa\u2019s kleptocrats. \u201cIt is a welcome development on the part of the Swiss government, but it is only one of several cases of looted funds awaiting return from European governments.\u201cIt would not be possible for African leaders to loot their national treasuries if there were no countries willing to receive these funds. If you preach transparency and accountability, you should not have the facility to transfer illicit funds to your own country.\u201dSwitzerland has previously returned to Nigeria more than $700m that Abacha hid in Swiss accounts \u2013 the first time European banks had returned looted money to an African country.Last month an African Union report found that the continent loses more than $50bn every year in illicit financial outflows as governments and multinational companies engage in fraudulent schemes aimed at avoiding tax payments to some of the world\u2019s poorest countries.In total, Africa lost about $850bn between 1970 and 2008, the report said. An estimated $217.7bn was illegally transferred out of Nigeria over that period, while Egypt lost $105.2bn and South Africa more than $81.8bn.", "tags": ["Nigeria", "Switzerland", "World Bank", "Africa", "Europe", "Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "World news"], "title": "Switzerland to return Sani Abacha 'loot' money to Nigeria"},{"date": "2015-03-18T06:00:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 10am and I am on a Swiss mountain holding a saw. My mission is to help build an igloo by 5pm, sleep in it and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 wake up next morning. It is the fourth annual Igloo Festival in the ski resort of in Adelboden, and teams of enthusiasts and novices gather at an altitude of 2,000m on the Engstligenalp plateau to spend their Saturday competing to see who can build the best igloo. Engstligenalp is the perfect location, since it\u2019s large enough to accommodate hundreds of igloos, if need be, and one of the few places that can guarantee an abundance of snow in March. Related: Satellite ski resorts \u2013 how to get Verbier snow for half the dough While fancy igloos have become popular as overnight options in ski resorts, the Igloo Festival is a chance to build and sleep in the real deal (unless you can rustle up a glass-roofed designer igloo with fur bedding in eight hours). Anyone can participate and there\u2019s no limit on team numbers \u2026 but the igloo has to be big enough to sleep the entire team. The well-heated Berghotel is within trudging distance for showering, storing luggage and, if your igloo-building skills prove inadequate, for sleeping.The ideal for the Igloo Festival came from its former sponsor, outdoor clothing firm Transa. In 2012, it attempted to set a Guinness world record in igloo building: 200 igloos with 400 participants. It only managed 60 igloos and 125 participants, but everyone had such a good time that the festival simply continued.There\u2019s already a circle of fledgling igloos when our five-strong team arrive at 10am, and experts and volunteers from The Alpine School, clothing specialist Sherpa Outdoor and the tourism office dart around offering guidance. An igloo with worryingly neat bricks is being built next to our spot by a father-and-son team. Bruno Schaub from the tourist office translates: \u201cHe\u2019s here because he wants to have a good time with his son.\u201dThe participants are mainly Swiss, though British, French, Italian and German teams have taken part. Many have built igloos before. A love of outdoor activities and the desire to do something different are common themes in today\u2019s igloo village. Related: The best places to stay in the Alps in summer: hotels, chalets and campsites To begin, we draw a circle on the ground using a stick and string as a giant compass. Sawing into the snow, we cut 20cm-thick bricks about the size of an A3 sheet, and place them in a circle, leaning slightly inwards. Rachel Rosser, events executive for the Ski Club of Great Britain, and Bruno saw the tops off the bricks on a diagonal so that the bricks will stack in a spiral. While we pack snow into the cracks, Bruno places the bricks until he has built himself into the igloo. Now the job is to dig an entrance (or, for Bruno, an exit). An igloo\u2019s entrance has to sit below the sleeping platform so the cold air sinks and the space stays cosy.In an attempt to earn \u201ccreativity points\u201d we make a snowman head for the top of the igloo, with oranges for eyes, a pear nose and a Twix mouth. But thing go awry: Rachel loses her grip and drops the head on the igloo, which leaves a gaping hole in the side. After howling and rending our garments, we manage to repair it before the 5pm deadline.Night falls, and we gather around the igloo bar, a small wall of snow bricks in the centre of the circle of igloos. Participants are served a nightcap of gl\u00fchwein (mulled wine), and as we drink we guess which igloo will snag the prizes: Sherpa Outdoor outfits, ski passes, bottles of wine, dinner in the Fondue Igloo and tickets to the Adelboden Adventure Park. Most bet on the preposterously huge double igloo with an adjoining corridor, built by a team celebrating a birthday, but I\u2019m rooting for the one made to look like a giant turtle.With trepidation, Rachel and I (the only two to brave a night in our igloo) get ready for \u201cbed\u201d. I\u2019m by the wall that we had to rebuild after \u201cHead Gate\u201d. It\u2019s caving in and looks like it would collapse if a pigeon landed on it. I give it a test poke \u2013 it\u2019s frozen solid.Our hooded sleeping bags have a fleece bag, a synthetic down sack and a plastic outer layer. I zip up, hood up, and wriggle in. Rachel\u2019s bleatings about the cold are muffled, but her snoring soon comes loud and clear. I feel like I\u2019m cowering in a snowman\u2019s armpit. I\u2019m not sleeping; I\u2019m playing dead. Related: Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland Sealed inside the sleeping bag, I find my oxygen supply runs out fast. I start panting and get a headache, and figure that poking my head out for a few gulps of the thin alpine air are worth a blast of cold. And a blast is what I get: our slapdash packing left cracks between some of the bricks and the wind is blowing through. Then claustrophobia kicks in. The once blue-and-sparkly igloo ceiling is now grey and black and closing in. The wind gusts through the cracks. I wipe snowflakes off my cheek.At 3:54am, I nudge the other body bag, \u201cRachel. It\u2019s snowing on my face.\u201d\u201cYeah, I can\u2019t stop shivering,\u201d she says through chattering teeth, \u201ccan we leave?\u201dWe pull on our boots and layers and headtorches, before fireman-crawling through the tunnel into -20C windchill. We make the 15-minute walk back to Berghotel, but don\u2019t have the heart to crash into the dorm and wake our teammates for the sake of two hours\u2019 sleep, so we settle ourselves the empty hotel bar, take dark-eyed selfies for posterity, and wait for the sun to come up. We may as well get an incredible sunrise out of this.At 6:40am that\u2019s just what we get. We stand by the ski lift as it delivers early morning skiers, our bloodshot eyes widening at the blue mist over the village below, the fading crescent moon, and the red skies rising over the mountains. Worth five hours trying to sleep in a windy freezer? Yes.At breakfast with our well-rested teammates, we\u2019re sleep-deprived and thawing more slowly than a turkey in the fridge, but our spirits are high. At 9am, we\u2019re awarded 14th place out of 22. The turtle igloo comes second, pipped at the post by the double with the corridor. No matter: plans for next year\u2019s well-packed igloo, with infinity pool, are already in place.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com) and Adelboden-Frutigen Tourism (adelboden.ch). The Igloo Festival takes place on a Saturday in mid-March every year, 9am-5pm. Packages cost from \u00a359 (self-catering), including lift pass to Engstligenalp, welcome pack, instructions, equipment and nightcap. The \u00a3100 Luxury option adds lunch, dinner and breakfast in the nearby BergHotel, but your bed is in your igloo", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Adventure travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Block rockin\u2019 feats: at Adelboden Igloo Festival, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-01-31T07:00:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Electro, dubstep, nu disco, footwork, hip-hop, UK funky, deep house ... napcore \u2026 Just a handful of the dance music genres that rocked my snowboard boots last March at DJ Gilles Peterson\u2019s Worldwide festival at Leysin in the Swiss Alps.Apart from that last one, that is. Napcore was the pre-dinner snooze strategy my ski buddy and I adopted to make sure we experienced Leysin\u2019s pistes to the max, as well as the event\u2019s sonic riches.\u201cHands up,\u201d Peterson told me at the event. \u201cAt the first edition, in 2013, we made some schoolboy errors. We underestimated how much people would want to ski and board, and how tired that makes you. So, with our parties starting at midnight and running till 4am or later, we had some zombies on our hands. This time we\u2019ve put more focus on the outdoor, afternoon apr\u00e8s-ski sets, plus earlier smaller-scale club nights, so the sporty ones can get up in the morning.\u201dThis relaxed programming approach drew around 600 attendees to Leysin last year, including 200 locals, forming a laid-back and like-minded music-loving community.\u201cEveryone\u2019s here because they actively seek out this kind of music,\u201d Adam, a fresh-faced marketer from London told me, \u201cso they already have a passion in common.\u201d\u201cAnd the small scale makes it really friendly,\u201d added Nina, a GP and Adam\u2019s new BFF since they met at one of the parties. \u201cYou don\u2019t even need to swap numbers. We just say \u2018See you later\u2019, and somewhere around town, or on the terrace of the Les Fers restaurant [on the slopes where Parisian DJs are putting on soul, funk and disco daytime sets], it just happens.\u201dBuilt on the steep, south-facing slopes of the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef, high above the Rh\u00f4ne valley, Leysin\u2019s distinctive architecture speaks of its history. The higher reaches, many switchbacks above the traditional wooden chalets at its base, are studded with palatial belle \u00e9poque sanatoriums, and it is bisected by an imposing stone viaduct that hauls cog trains up from the valley floor. Its look is part Wes Anderson\u2019s Grand Budapest Hotel, part Lowry townscape.As a ski resort, it\u2019s no Zermatt, although the large freestyle park that most years hosts the Champs, Europe\u2019s oldest snowboarding competition, is world-class. But its modest 60km of predominantly red and blue pistes cover a compact basin beneath the sheer cliffs at the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef\u2019s summit \u2013 offering glimpses of Lake Geneva, Mont Blanc and the Eiger \u2013 then roll down wooded lower slopes facing the Dents du Midi.There\u2019s another 40km in the next-door village of Les Mosses when conditions are good enough for the shuttle bus to run, and the 3,000m glacier area of Les Diablerets is 30km away \u2013 a feasible day out. Related: European festival awards: eastern Europe takes top prizes Late-season lift tickets are negotiated to sweeten prices for Worldwide guests \u2013 a four-day lift and party pass cost \u20ac80, or \u20ac120 for the week. The deal is a steal for beginners and intermediates though no contender for \u201cseason\u2019s main ski trip\u201d for the more experienced.The 2015 festival, from 26-29 March, is expecting to double the number of guests and has already confirmed some key acts, such as Washington DC\u2019s emerging soul-jazz master Diggs Duke, French guitar-laced house duo Kuage, house and garage star Julio Bashmore, jazzy grime trickster Swindle and dub-reggae don David Rodigan.The free apr\u00e8s-ski sets, which were highlights last year, will be repeated. \u201cThe apr\u00e8s sessions are the magic for me,\u201d says Peterson. \u201cThere\u2019s nothing like a cold beer at the end of a day\u2019s skiing when you\u2019ve got great energy from the slopes, and if you can combine that with brilliant music and fun people \u2026 it doesn\u2019t get much better.\u201d Winding up the 2014 festival\u2019s final day, his own set on the terrace of the Bel Air Hotel was a joyous avalanche of fat beats tumbling from one of Worldwide\u2019s signature precision sound systems that sent the crowd \u2013 three crowd-surfing giant penguins, a Chewbacca and a slightly weird number of Camilla Parker-Bowles masks among them \u2013 into raptures.\u201cEffortless, eclectic, uplifting genius,\u201d said Rui, a Portuguese sound designer and part-time DJ visiting for his second year, \u201cGilles Peterson should rule the world.\u201d\u2022 More details at worldwidefestival.com and leysin.ch. Flights from London City to Geneva provided by Swiss (swiss.com), returns from \u00a399. Train travel from Geneva airport to Leysin costs \u00a334.70 return (sbb.ch). Accommodation provided by Mercure Classic Hotel (classic-hotel.ch, doubles from \u00a377 B&B)", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Festivals", "Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Music festivals", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-03-09T10:20:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Reports in the Iranian press today are saying that the next round of the Iran nuclear negotiations are going to take place in Lausanne, Switzerland. If true, and the Iranian media have usually been reliable on such logistical details, it will extend a tour of luxury hotel destinations the long-running talks have taken in, in the wake of Vienna, Geneva and Montreux. Clearly, the negotiators from the seven countries (and EU) taking part feel they deserve a certain degree of comfort for the very long hours they have put in so far.This will be the last negotiating round before the Persian New Year, Nowruz, on March 21, though the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, has said is he prepared to soldier on at the expense of family festivities. Western negotiators say that this five-day session is intended to be the decisive round for producing a framework agreement. At the moment, there are no plans for a further round, and if progress is being made, they diplomats will extend this session, most likely in the presence of foreign ministers, rather than adjourn.We have heard this several times before. These negotiations on the future scope of Iran\u2019s nuclear programme have bulldozed two previous deadlines. The end-March target for a framework agreement, laid down by foreign ministers when the last deadline was missed in November, is supposed to be bolstered by political urgency supplied by an impatience and sceptical Congress. The Senate had given the Obama administration until March 24 to come up with a framework. But even that looks a bit fuzzy now. As Politico notes, the Senate goes into recess three days after that date until April 13, so the diplomats do in theory have a few more weeks. The final deadline for a full deal with all the details worked out, is not until the end of June.However, while the dates may get blurry, western negotiators say that the framework agreement when it comes will have to be a lot more than a statement of intent. It will have to include the main parameters and numbers, including the crucial limits on Iranian uranium enrichment capacity and a timetable for lifting sanctions. Even if that is agreed, the diplomats warn, the deal could still be derailed when it comes to do filling in the details afterwards. It is only if and when that is done that this diplomatic marathon can be said to have reached the finishing line. ", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Switzerland"], "title": "Next (and supposedly decisive) Iran nuclear talks due to start on Sunday in Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-02-10T19:45:37Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "You write \u201cSo far, Switzerland has concentrated on bringing Herv\u00e9 Falciani, the bank IT worker who leaked the data, to justice\u201d (Report, 10 February). This wording is too favourable to the Swiss. You should either use neutral terminology, such as \u201cSwitzerland concentrates on prosecuting Falciani\u201d, or state the truth: \u201cSwitzerland continues to engage in witness intimidation\u201d.Dr David CooperNewbury, Berkshire\u2022 How fortunate that none of the wealthy and criminal clients of HSBC (HMRC knew of wrongdoing, but did not prosecute bank, 10 February) stole a bottle of water. As we know from the government\u2019s comments after the jailing of someone for just such a minor theft during the 2011 riots, criminal behaviour of that nature fully deserves a custodial sentence.Dr Chris MorrisKidderminster, Worcestershire\u2022 I read with increasing alarm the growing list of unethical if not illegal activities of the HSBC group. It seems wealthy customers can put pressure on the bank. I suggest that their large numbers of less wealthy clients, including those of First Direct, write to the bank and ask them why they should not withdraw their accounts.Mick FarrantLondon\u2022 On the road to Damascus, Ian Birrell learns that the super-rich \u201cseek to capture western governments, ensuring they can increase their wealth while protecting their interests\u201d (Opinion, 10 February). How many New Labour grandees did he pass travelling in the opposite direction?Paul MartinLondon\u2022 My son was fined \u00a31,200 for late return of his self-assessment tax form. He worked six months of the year at the minimum wage to earn money to go travelling. Tax owed: zero. Value of assets held by HSBC\u2019s \u201cwealthy and criminal clients\u201d: \u00a378bn. Fined: zero.Lin McCullochLondon\u2022 Out of curiosity, how many plasterers, nurses or lecturers were there/are there on the board of HSBC?John CumminsCallander, Stirling", "tags": ["HSBC", "UK news", "World news", "HMRC", "Switzerland", "Tax avoidance", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Notes on a scandal of money and power involving HSBC, HMRC and Switzerland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-03-18T16:35:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is to give Nigeria $380m (\u00a3260m) that was allegedly looted by the former military dictator Sani Abacha and stored in European bank accounts, officials announced on Tuesday.The transfer will be carried out under the supervision of the World Bank, ending 16 years of court wrangling.Abacha, who ruled Nigeria for five years after a 1993 coup, is believed to have stolen $4.3bn while in office, placing him among the ranks of Congo\u2019s Mobutu Sese Seko as one of Africa\u2019s most avaricious kleptocrats.Following his death from a sudden heart attack in 1998, the Nigerian government asked Switzerland to help it recover $2.2bn that he was said to have stashed in European bank accounts. The tax haven was forced to relax banking secrecy regulations after some landmark rulings.The $380m had been placed in several accounts abroad that were controlled by the Abacha family, which is considered a criminal organisation, the prosecutor\u2019s office in the Swiss capital, Geneva, said on Tuesday. It was seized in 2006 in Luxembourg following a request from Swiss authorities.The decision to return it to Nigeria follows a deal struck last July between the west Africa country\u2019s government and the Abacha family. Under the agreement, the funds will be confiscated and sent back to Nigeria, while the government will drop its case against the deceased dictator\u2019s son Abba Abacha.The greed of Abacha appalled even Nigerians used to plundering on a grand scale. After his death aged 54, his wife Maryam was caught trying to flee the country with 38 suitcases stuffed with cash. The $5m Peace Foundation set up by the family to sell \u201cAbacha-themed\u201d televisions, sandals, rice and soap later collapsed.Abacha was also notoriously brutal autocrat accused of countless human rights abuses. The hanging in 1995 of writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissidents caused worldwide revulsion.It would not be possible for African leaders to loot \u2026 if there were no countries willing to receive these fundsDr John-Mark Iyi, a Nigerian academic, was among students who demonstrated against Abacha on the night he took power, recalling student organisations were instantly banned. \u201cIt is more or less common knowledge that the Abacha regime was a criminal syndicate that looted Nigeria blind. His was the most brutal regime Nigeria ever had. People say he ruled with an iron fist; in my view that is an understatement. He ran hit squads, people disappeared and a whole lot of human rights violations took place.\u201dIyi, now based at at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, expressed satisfaction at the return of the funds but said Europe must take responsibility for effectively assisting Africa\u2019s kleptocrats. \u201cIt is a welcome development on the part of the Swiss government, but it is only one of several cases of looted funds awaiting return from European governments.\u201cIt would not be possible for African leaders to loot their national treasuries if there were no countries willing to receive these funds. If you preach transparency and accountability, you should not have the facility to transfer illicit funds to your own country.\u201dSwitzerland has previously returned to Nigeria more than $700m that Abacha hid in Swiss accounts \u2013 the first time European banks had returned looted money to an African country.Last month an African Union report found that the continent loses more than $50bn every year in illicit financial outflows as governments and multinational companies engage in fraudulent schemes aimed at avoiding tax payments to some of the world\u2019s poorest countries.In total, Africa lost about $850bn between 1970 and 2008, the report said. An estimated $217.7bn was illegally transferred out of Nigeria over that period, while Egypt lost $105.2bn and South Africa more than $81.8bn.", "tags": ["Nigeria", "Switzerland", "World Bank", "Africa", "Europe", "Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "World news"], "title": "Switzerland to return Sani Abacha 'loot' money to Nigeria"},{"date": "2015-03-18T06:00:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 10am and I am on a Swiss mountain holding a saw. My mission is to help build an igloo by 5pm, sleep in it and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 wake up next morning. It is the fourth annual Igloo Festival in the ski resort of in Adelboden, and teams of enthusiasts and novices gather at an altitude of 2,000m on the Engstligenalp plateau to spend their Saturday competing to see who can build the best igloo. Engstligenalp is the perfect location, since it\u2019s large enough to accommodate hundreds of igloos, if need be, and one of the few places that can guarantee an abundance of snow in March. Related: Satellite ski resorts \u2013 how to get Verbier snow for half the dough While fancy igloos have become popular as overnight options in ski resorts, the Igloo Festival is a chance to build and sleep in the real deal (unless you can rustle up a glass-roofed designer igloo with fur bedding in eight hours). Anyone can participate and there\u2019s no limit on team numbers \u2026 but the igloo has to be big enough to sleep the entire team. The well-heated Berghotel is within trudging distance for showering, storing luggage and, if your igloo-building skills prove inadequate, for sleeping.The ideal for the Igloo Festival came from its former sponsor, outdoor clothing firm Transa. In 2012, it attempted to set a Guinness world record in igloo building: 200 igloos with 400 participants. It only managed 60 igloos and 125 participants, but everyone had such a good time that the festival simply continued.There\u2019s already a circle of fledgling igloos when our five-strong team arrive at 10am, and experts and volunteers from The Alpine School, clothing specialist Sherpa Outdoor and the tourism office dart around offering guidance. An igloo with worryingly neat bricks is being built next to our spot by a father-and-son team. Bruno Schaub from the tourist office translates: \u201cHe\u2019s here because he wants to have a good time with his son.\u201dThe participants are mainly Swiss, though British, French, Italian and German teams have taken part. Many have built igloos before. A love of outdoor activities and the desire to do something different are common themes in today\u2019s igloo village. Related: The best places to stay in the Alps in summer: hotels, chalets and campsites To begin, we draw a circle on the ground using a stick and string as a giant compass. Sawing into the snow, we cut 20cm-thick bricks about the size of an A3 sheet, and place them in a circle, leaning slightly inwards. Rachel Rosser, events executive for the Ski Club of Great Britain, and Bruno saw the tops off the bricks on a diagonal so that the bricks will stack in a spiral. While we pack snow into the cracks, Bruno places the bricks until he has built himself into the igloo. Now the job is to dig an entrance (or, for Bruno, an exit). An igloo\u2019s entrance has to sit below the sleeping platform so the cold air sinks and the space stays cosy.In an attempt to earn \u201ccreativity points\u201d we make a snowman head for the top of the igloo, with oranges for eyes, a pear nose and a Twix mouth. But thing go awry: Rachel loses her grip and drops the head on the igloo, which leaves a gaping hole in the side. After howling and rending our garments, we manage to repair it before the 5pm deadline.Night falls, and we gather around the igloo bar, a small wall of snow bricks in the centre of the circle of igloos. Participants are served a nightcap of gl\u00fchwein (mulled wine), and as we drink we guess which igloo will snag the prizes: Sherpa Outdoor outfits, ski passes, bottles of wine, dinner in the Fondue Igloo and tickets to the Adelboden Adventure Park. Most bet on the preposterously huge double igloo with an adjoining corridor, built by a team celebrating a birthday, but I\u2019m rooting for the one made to look like a giant turtle.With trepidation, Rachel and I (the only two to brave a night in our igloo) get ready for \u201cbed\u201d. I\u2019m by the wall that we had to rebuild after \u201cHead Gate\u201d. It\u2019s caving in and looks like it would collapse if a pigeon landed on it. I give it a test poke \u2013 it\u2019s frozen solid.Our hooded sleeping bags have a fleece bag, a synthetic down sack and a plastic outer layer. I zip up, hood up, and wriggle in. Rachel\u2019s bleatings about the cold are muffled, but her snoring soon comes loud and clear. I feel like I\u2019m cowering in a snowman\u2019s armpit. I\u2019m not sleeping; I\u2019m playing dead. Related: Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland Sealed inside the sleeping bag, I find my oxygen supply runs out fast. I start panting and get a headache, and figure that poking my head out for a few gulps of the thin alpine air are worth a blast of cold. And a blast is what I get: our slapdash packing left cracks between some of the bricks and the wind is blowing through. Then claustrophobia kicks in. The once blue-and-sparkly igloo ceiling is now grey and black and closing in. The wind gusts through the cracks. I wipe snowflakes off my cheek.At 3:54am, I nudge the other body bag, \u201cRachel. It\u2019s snowing on my face.\u201d\u201cYeah, I can\u2019t stop shivering,\u201d she says through chattering teeth, \u201ccan we leave?\u201dWe pull on our boots and layers and headtorches, before fireman-crawling through the tunnel into -20C windchill. We make the 15-minute walk back to Berghotel, but don\u2019t have the heart to crash into the dorm and wake our teammates for the sake of two hours\u2019 sleep, so we settle ourselves the empty hotel bar, take dark-eyed selfies for posterity, and wait for the sun to come up. We may as well get an incredible sunrise out of this.At 6:40am that\u2019s just what we get. We stand by the ski lift as it delivers early morning skiers, our bloodshot eyes widening at the blue mist over the village below, the fading crescent moon, and the red skies rising over the mountains. Worth five hours trying to sleep in a windy freezer? Yes.At breakfast with our well-rested teammates, we\u2019re sleep-deprived and thawing more slowly than a turkey in the fridge, but our spirits are high. At 9am, we\u2019re awarded 14th place out of 22. The turtle igloo comes second, pipped at the post by the double with the corridor. No matter: plans for next year\u2019s well-packed igloo, with infinity pool, are already in place.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com) and Adelboden-Frutigen Tourism (adelboden.ch). The Igloo Festival takes place on a Saturday in mid-March every year, 9am-5pm. Packages cost from \u00a359 (self-catering), including lift pass to Engstligenalp, welcome pack, instructions, equipment and nightcap. The \u00a3100 Luxury option adds lunch, dinner and breakfast in the nearby BergHotel, but your bed is in your igloo", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Adventure travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Block rockin\u2019 feats: at Adelboden Igloo Festival, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-01-31T07:00:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Electro, dubstep, nu disco, footwork, hip-hop, UK funky, deep house ... napcore \u2026 Just a handful of the dance music genres that rocked my snowboard boots last March at DJ Gilles Peterson\u2019s Worldwide festival at Leysin in the Swiss Alps.Apart from that last one, that is. Napcore was the pre-dinner snooze strategy my ski buddy and I adopted to make sure we experienced Leysin\u2019s pistes to the max, as well as the event\u2019s sonic riches.\u201cHands up,\u201d Peterson told me at the event. \u201cAt the first edition, in 2013, we made some schoolboy errors. We underestimated how much people would want to ski and board, and how tired that makes you. So, with our parties starting at midnight and running till 4am or later, we had some zombies on our hands. This time we\u2019ve put more focus on the outdoor, afternoon apr\u00e8s-ski sets, plus earlier smaller-scale club nights, so the sporty ones can get up in the morning.\u201dThis relaxed programming approach drew around 600 attendees to Leysin last year, including 200 locals, forming a laid-back and like-minded music-loving community.\u201cEveryone\u2019s here because they actively seek out this kind of music,\u201d Adam, a fresh-faced marketer from London told me, \u201cso they already have a passion in common.\u201d\u201cAnd the small scale makes it really friendly,\u201d added Nina, a GP and Adam\u2019s new BFF since they met at one of the parties. \u201cYou don\u2019t even need to swap numbers. We just say \u2018See you later\u2019, and somewhere around town, or on the terrace of the Les Fers restaurant [on the slopes where Parisian DJs are putting on soul, funk and disco daytime sets], it just happens.\u201dBuilt on the steep, south-facing slopes of the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef, high above the Rh\u00f4ne valley, Leysin\u2019s distinctive architecture speaks of its history. The higher reaches, many switchbacks above the traditional wooden chalets at its base, are studded with palatial belle \u00e9poque sanatoriums, and it is bisected by an imposing stone viaduct that hauls cog trains up from the valley floor. Its look is part Wes Anderson\u2019s Grand Budapest Hotel, part Lowry townscape.As a ski resort, it\u2019s no Zermatt, although the large freestyle park that most years hosts the Champs, Europe\u2019s oldest snowboarding competition, is world-class. But its modest 60km of predominantly red and blue pistes cover a compact basin beneath the sheer cliffs at the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef\u2019s summit \u2013 offering glimpses of Lake Geneva, Mont Blanc and the Eiger \u2013 then roll down wooded lower slopes facing the Dents du Midi.There\u2019s another 40km in the next-door village of Les Mosses when conditions are good enough for the shuttle bus to run, and the 3,000m glacier area of Les Diablerets is 30km away \u2013 a feasible day out. Related: European festival awards: eastern Europe takes top prizes Late-season lift tickets are negotiated to sweeten prices for Worldwide guests \u2013 a four-day lift and party pass cost \u20ac80, or \u20ac120 for the week. The deal is a steal for beginners and intermediates though no contender for \u201cseason\u2019s main ski trip\u201d for the more experienced.The 2015 festival, from 26-29 March, is expecting to double the number of guests and has already confirmed some key acts, such as Washington DC\u2019s emerging soul-jazz master Diggs Duke, French guitar-laced house duo Kuage, house and garage star Julio Bashmore, jazzy grime trickster Swindle and dub-reggae don David Rodigan.The free apr\u00e8s-ski sets, which were highlights last year, will be repeated. \u201cThe apr\u00e8s sessions are the magic for me,\u201d says Peterson. \u201cThere\u2019s nothing like a cold beer at the end of a day\u2019s skiing when you\u2019ve got great energy from the slopes, and if you can combine that with brilliant music and fun people \u2026 it doesn\u2019t get much better.\u201d Winding up the 2014 festival\u2019s final day, his own set on the terrace of the Bel Air Hotel was a joyous avalanche of fat beats tumbling from one of Worldwide\u2019s signature precision sound systems that sent the crowd \u2013 three crowd-surfing giant penguins, a Chewbacca and a slightly weird number of Camilla Parker-Bowles masks among them \u2013 into raptures.\u201cEffortless, eclectic, uplifting genius,\u201d said Rui, a Portuguese sound designer and part-time DJ visiting for his second year, \u201cGilles Peterson should rule the world.\u201d\u2022 More details at worldwidefestival.com and leysin.ch. Flights from London City to Geneva provided by Swiss (swiss.com), returns from \u00a399. Train travel from Geneva airport to Leysin costs \u00a334.70 return (sbb.ch). Accommodation provided by Mercure Classic Hotel (classic-hotel.ch, doubles from \u00a377 B&B)", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Festivals", "Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Music festivals", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-03-09T10:20:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Reports in the Iranian press today are saying that the next round of the Iran nuclear negotiations are going to take place in Lausanne, Switzerland. If true, and the Iranian media have usually been reliable on such logistical details, it will extend a tour of luxury hotel destinations the long-running talks have taken in, in the wake of Vienna, Geneva and Montreux. Clearly, the negotiators from the seven countries (and EU) taking part feel they deserve a certain degree of comfort for the very long hours they have put in so far.This will be the last negotiating round before the Persian New Year, Nowruz, on March 21, though the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, has said is he prepared to soldier on at the expense of family festivities. Western negotiators say that this five-day session is intended to be the decisive round for producing a framework agreement. At the moment, there are no plans for a further round, and if progress is being made, they diplomats will extend this session, most likely in the presence of foreign ministers, rather than adjourn.We have heard this several times before. These negotiations on the future scope of Iran\u2019s nuclear programme have bulldozed two previous deadlines. The end-March target for a framework agreement, laid down by foreign ministers when the last deadline was missed in November, is supposed to be bolstered by political urgency supplied by an impatience and sceptical Congress. The Senate had given the Obama administration until March 24 to come up with a framework. But even that looks a bit fuzzy now. As Politico notes, the Senate goes into recess three days after that date until April 13, so the diplomats do in theory have a few more weeks. The final deadline for a full deal with all the details worked out, is not until the end of June.However, while the dates may get blurry, western negotiators say that the framework agreement when it comes will have to be a lot more than a statement of intent. It will have to include the main parameters and numbers, including the crucial limits on Iranian uranium enrichment capacity and a timetable for lifting sanctions. Even if that is agreed, the diplomats warn, the deal could still be derailed when it comes to do filling in the details afterwards. It is only if and when that is done that this diplomatic marathon can be said to have reached the finishing line. ", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Switzerland"], "title": "Next (and supposedly decisive) Iran nuclear talks due to start on Sunday in Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-02-10T19:45:37Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "You write \u201cSo far, Switzerland has concentrated on bringing Herv\u00e9 Falciani, the bank IT worker who leaked the data, to justice\u201d (Report, 10 February). This wording is too favourable to the Swiss. You should either use neutral terminology, such as \u201cSwitzerland concentrates on prosecuting Falciani\u201d, or state the truth: \u201cSwitzerland continues to engage in witness intimidation\u201d.Dr David CooperNewbury, Berkshire\u2022 How fortunate that none of the wealthy and criminal clients of HSBC (HMRC knew of wrongdoing, but did not prosecute bank, 10 February) stole a bottle of water. As we know from the government\u2019s comments after the jailing of someone for just such a minor theft during the 2011 riots, criminal behaviour of that nature fully deserves a custodial sentence.Dr Chris MorrisKidderminster, Worcestershire\u2022 I read with increasing alarm the growing list of unethical if not illegal activities of the HSBC group. It seems wealthy customers can put pressure on the bank. I suggest that their large numbers of less wealthy clients, including those of First Direct, write to the bank and ask them why they should not withdraw their accounts.Mick FarrantLondon\u2022 On the road to Damascus, Ian Birrell learns that the super-rich \u201cseek to capture western governments, ensuring they can increase their wealth while protecting their interests\u201d (Opinion, 10 February). How many New Labour grandees did he pass travelling in the opposite direction?Paul MartinLondon\u2022 My son was fined \u00a31,200 for late return of his self-assessment tax form. He worked six months of the year at the minimum wage to earn money to go travelling. Tax owed: zero. Value of assets held by HSBC\u2019s \u201cwealthy and criminal clients\u201d: \u00a378bn. Fined: zero.Lin McCullochLondon\u2022 Out of curiosity, how many plasterers, nurses or lecturers were there/are there on the board of HSBC?John CumminsCallander, Stirling", "tags": ["HSBC", "UK news", "World news", "HMRC", "Switzerland", "Tax avoidance", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Notes on a scandal of money and power involving HSBC, HMRC and Switzerland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-01-21T06:00:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Clutching a lunchtime orange juice and sandwich in Zurich\u2019s central station, nurse Nelly Studer captured the fears gnawing at Switzerland since the drama in the foreign exchange markets last Thursday when the Swiss franc jumped 30% in value against the euro.\u201cI hope that our exporters are not going to move jobs abroad. We need to keep jobs in Switzerland, and I hope they do not cut salaries either,\u201d Studer said.\u201cI think that companies who rely on exports will have to find solutions. It will be very hard for them, very difficult.\u201dThe Swiss central bank\u2019s decision to abandon its cap against the euro made its chairman, Thomas Jordan, an unpopular man in the foreign exchange markets. But there was little outward sign that Swiss citizens were angry with Jordan on the road to Davos on Tuesday.Despite Studer\u2019s worries, she still welcomed the move to remove the \u201cartificial\u201d cap on the value of the franc.She didn\u2019t fear for her own career, as the health centre where she works is short of staff, she said. But she frets that exporters suffer, if their goods are too expensive in foreign markets.On the train out of Zurich\u2019s main station, a mechanic who worked for a international company and preferred not to give his name, admitted: \u201cIt\u2019s not good for exporters.\u201dThe cap had been in place in September 2011, as Swiss policymakers tried to prevent their currency becoming too strong. Its popularity as a safe haven rose steadily amid the eurozone storm. The Russian crisis last year had exacerbated the inflows into Switzerland and left the country with a battle on its hands to stop its currency strengthening through 1.20 against the euro.After Jordan\u2019s move \u2013 which caught out many FX traders, forcing several brokers to collapse \u2013 the currency experienced one of the biggest one-day surges in history.Swiss nationals were surprised too. \u201cWe started January thinking that the cap would go on and on, and then boom, it was gone,\u201d Struder said. But that\u2019s not a reason to criticise the SNB chairman. \u201cI have confidence in his abilities \u2026 removing the ceiling against the euro was the right thing to do\u201d.Jordan, like many central bank chiefs, is attending the World Economic Forum in Davos this week where his action is likely to be the subject of much debate. Economists fear a stronger franc will hurt economic growth and raise the risk of deflation.Carl M\u00fcller, a pensioner travelling from Zurich with his wife, also retains his faith in Jordan.\u201cThere has been too much panicking. We need to wait and see how the situation stabilises,\u201d he explained, as his carriage wound around the tranquil shore of Lake Z\u00fcrich.Critics of the central bank are unhappy that it abandoned the cap without warning, having recently pledged to maintain it. But there was little sympathy for such complaints among the passengers of the express to Chur.\u201cThey had to act immediately, or speculators would have profited,\u201d pointed out Frau M\u00fcller.Instead Jordan ended up causing pain for many in the markets who had expected the peg would stay in place.As delegates began to register for the annual meeting in Davos \u2013 where 2,500 business executives, world leaders and policymakers try to put the world\u2019s problems to rights \u2013 hoteliers and shopkeepers were more reluctant to offer a view.Attendees have avoided the worst of the currency move as hoteliers demand payment in advance. But tourists with skiing on their minds might baulk at paying more than 700 francs for the cheapest set of skis. Switzerland was already one of the world\u2019s most expensive countries. A small cup of coffee on that train out of Zurich would set you back SFr4.30, or a hefty \u00a33.20 at today\u2019s exchange rate.M\u00fcller predicts tougher times for Switzerland\u2019s tourist industry. They cannot simply expect eurozone visitors to swallow a 20% increase in bills when visiting the country. \u201cWe are quite pricey already,\u201d he points out.", "tags": ["Davos 2015", "Davos", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics"], "title": "Switzerland braces for tougher times after franc jumps in value against euro"},{"date": "2015-03-18T16:35:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is to give Nigeria $380m (\u00a3260m) that was allegedly looted by the former military dictator Sani Abacha and stored in European bank accounts, officials announced on Tuesday.The transfer will be carried out under the supervision of the World Bank, ending 16 years of court wrangling.Abacha, who ruled Nigeria for five years after a 1993 coup, is believed to have stolen $4.3bn while in office, placing him among the ranks of Congo\u2019s Mobutu Sese Seko as one of Africa\u2019s most avaricious kleptocrats.Following his death from a sudden heart attack in 1998, the Nigerian government asked Switzerland to help it recover $2.2bn that he was said to have stashed in European bank accounts. The tax haven was forced to relax banking secrecy regulations after some landmark rulings.The $380m had been placed in several accounts abroad that were controlled by the Abacha family, which is considered a criminal organisation, the prosecutor\u2019s office in the Swiss capital, Geneva, said on Tuesday. It was seized in 2006 in Luxembourg following a request from Swiss authorities.The decision to return it to Nigeria follows a deal struck last July between the west Africa country\u2019s government and the Abacha family. Under the agreement, the funds will be confiscated and sent back to Nigeria, while the government will drop its case against the deceased dictator\u2019s son Abba Abacha.The greed of Abacha appalled even Nigerians used to plundering on a grand scale. After his death aged 54, his wife Maryam was caught trying to flee the country with 38 suitcases stuffed with cash. The $5m Peace Foundation set up by the family to sell \u201cAbacha-themed\u201d televisions, sandals, rice and soap later collapsed.Abacha was also notoriously brutal autocrat accused of countless human rights abuses. The hanging in 1995 of writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissidents caused worldwide revulsion.It would not be possible for African leaders to loot \u2026 if there were no countries willing to receive these fundsDr John-Mark Iyi, a Nigerian academic, was among students who demonstrated against Abacha on the night he took power, recalling student organisations were instantly banned. \u201cIt is more or less common knowledge that the Abacha regime was a criminal syndicate that looted Nigeria blind. His was the most brutal regime Nigeria ever had. People say he ruled with an iron fist; in my view that is an understatement. He ran hit squads, people disappeared and a whole lot of human rights violations took place.\u201dIyi, now based at at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, expressed satisfaction at the return of the funds but said Europe must take responsibility for effectively assisting Africa\u2019s kleptocrats. \u201cIt is a welcome development on the part of the Swiss government, but it is only one of several cases of looted funds awaiting return from European governments.\u201cIt would not be possible for African leaders to loot their national treasuries if there were no countries willing to receive these funds. If you preach transparency and accountability, you should not have the facility to transfer illicit funds to your own country.\u201dSwitzerland has previously returned to Nigeria more than $700m that Abacha hid in Swiss accounts \u2013 the first time European banks had returned looted money to an African country.Last month an African Union report found that the continent loses more than $50bn every year in illicit financial outflows as governments and multinational companies engage in fraudulent schemes aimed at avoiding tax payments to some of the world\u2019s poorest countries.In total, Africa lost about $850bn between 1970 and 2008, the report said. An estimated $217.7bn was illegally transferred out of Nigeria over that period, while Egypt lost $105.2bn and South Africa more than $81.8bn.", "tags": ["Nigeria", "Switzerland", "World Bank", "Africa", "Europe", "Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "World news"], "title": "Switzerland to return Sani Abacha 'loot' money to Nigeria"},{"date": "2015-03-18T06:00:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 10am and I am on a Swiss mountain holding a saw. My mission is to help build an igloo by 5pm, sleep in it and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 wake up next morning. It is the fourth annual Igloo Festival in the ski resort of in Adelboden, and teams of enthusiasts and novices gather at an altitude of 2,000m on the Engstligenalp plateau to spend their Saturday competing to see who can build the best igloo. Engstligenalp is the perfect location, since it\u2019s large enough to accommodate hundreds of igloos, if need be, and one of the few places that can guarantee an abundance of snow in March. Related: Satellite ski resorts \u2013 how to get Verbier snow for half the dough While fancy igloos have become popular as overnight options in ski resorts, the Igloo Festival is a chance to build and sleep in the real deal (unless you can rustle up a glass-roofed designer igloo with fur bedding in eight hours). Anyone can participate and there\u2019s no limit on team numbers \u2026 but the igloo has to be big enough to sleep the entire team. The well-heated Berghotel is within trudging distance for showering, storing luggage and, if your igloo-building skills prove inadequate, for sleeping.The ideal for the Igloo Festival came from its former sponsor, outdoor clothing firm Transa. In 2012, it attempted to set a Guinness world record in igloo building: 200 igloos with 400 participants. It only managed 60 igloos and 125 participants, but everyone had such a good time that the festival simply continued.There\u2019s already a circle of fledgling igloos when our five-strong team arrive at 10am, and experts and volunteers from The Alpine School, clothing specialist Sherpa Outdoor and the tourism office dart around offering guidance. An igloo with worryingly neat bricks is being built next to our spot by a father-and-son team. Bruno Schaub from the tourist office translates: \u201cHe\u2019s here because he wants to have a good time with his son.\u201dThe participants are mainly Swiss, though British, French, Italian and German teams have taken part. Many have built igloos before. A love of outdoor activities and the desire to do something different are common themes in today\u2019s igloo village. Related: The best places to stay in the Alps in summer: hotels, chalets and campsites To begin, we draw a circle on the ground using a stick and string as a giant compass. Sawing into the snow, we cut 20cm-thick bricks about the size of an A3 sheet, and place them in a circle, leaning slightly inwards. Rachel Rosser, events executive for the Ski Club of Great Britain, and Bruno saw the tops off the bricks on a diagonal so that the bricks will stack in a spiral. While we pack snow into the cracks, Bruno places the bricks until he has built himself into the igloo. Now the job is to dig an entrance (or, for Bruno, an exit). An igloo\u2019s entrance has to sit below the sleeping platform so the cold air sinks and the space stays cosy.In an attempt to earn \u201ccreativity points\u201d we make a snowman head for the top of the igloo, with oranges for eyes, a pear nose and a Twix mouth. But thing go awry: Rachel loses her grip and drops the head on the igloo, which leaves a gaping hole in the side. After howling and rending our garments, we manage to repair it before the 5pm deadline.Night falls, and we gather around the igloo bar, a small wall of snow bricks in the centre of the circle of igloos. Participants are served a nightcap of gl\u00fchwein (mulled wine), and as we drink we guess which igloo will snag the prizes: Sherpa Outdoor outfits, ski passes, bottles of wine, dinner in the Fondue Igloo and tickets to the Adelboden Adventure Park. Most bet on the preposterously huge double igloo with an adjoining corridor, built by a team celebrating a birthday, but I\u2019m rooting for the one made to look like a giant turtle.With trepidation, Rachel and I (the only two to brave a night in our igloo) get ready for \u201cbed\u201d. I\u2019m by the wall that we had to rebuild after \u201cHead Gate\u201d. It\u2019s caving in and looks like it would collapse if a pigeon landed on it. I give it a test poke \u2013 it\u2019s frozen solid.Our hooded sleeping bags have a fleece bag, a synthetic down sack and a plastic outer layer. I zip up, hood up, and wriggle in. Rachel\u2019s bleatings about the cold are muffled, but her snoring soon comes loud and clear. I feel like I\u2019m cowering in a snowman\u2019s armpit. I\u2019m not sleeping; I\u2019m playing dead. Related: Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland Sealed inside the sleeping bag, I find my oxygen supply runs out fast. I start panting and get a headache, and figure that poking my head out for a few gulps of the thin alpine air are worth a blast of cold. And a blast is what I get: our slapdash packing left cracks between some of the bricks and the wind is blowing through. Then claustrophobia kicks in. The once blue-and-sparkly igloo ceiling is now grey and black and closing in. The wind gusts through the cracks. I wipe snowflakes off my cheek.At 3:54am, I nudge the other body bag, \u201cRachel. It\u2019s snowing on my face.\u201d\u201cYeah, I can\u2019t stop shivering,\u201d she says through chattering teeth, \u201ccan we leave?\u201dWe pull on our boots and layers and headtorches, before fireman-crawling through the tunnel into -20C windchill. We make the 15-minute walk back to Berghotel, but don\u2019t have the heart to crash into the dorm and wake our teammates for the sake of two hours\u2019 sleep, so we settle ourselves the empty hotel bar, take dark-eyed selfies for posterity, and wait for the sun to come up. We may as well get an incredible sunrise out of this.At 6:40am that\u2019s just what we get. We stand by the ski lift as it delivers early morning skiers, our bloodshot eyes widening at the blue mist over the village below, the fading crescent moon, and the red skies rising over the mountains. Worth five hours trying to sleep in a windy freezer? Yes.At breakfast with our well-rested teammates, we\u2019re sleep-deprived and thawing more slowly than a turkey in the fridge, but our spirits are high. At 9am, we\u2019re awarded 14th place out of 22. The turtle igloo comes second, pipped at the post by the double with the corridor. No matter: plans for next year\u2019s well-packed igloo, with infinity pool, are already in place.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com) and Adelboden-Frutigen Tourism (adelboden.ch). The Igloo Festival takes place on a Saturday in mid-March every year, 9am-5pm. Packages cost from \u00a359 (self-catering), including lift pass to Engstligenalp, welcome pack, instructions, equipment and nightcap. The \u00a3100 Luxury option adds lunch, dinner and breakfast in the nearby BergHotel, but your bed is in your igloo", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Adventure travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Block rockin\u2019 feats: at Adelboden Igloo Festival, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-01-31T07:00:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Electro, dubstep, nu disco, footwork, hip-hop, UK funky, deep house ... napcore \u2026 Just a handful of the dance music genres that rocked my snowboard boots last March at DJ Gilles Peterson\u2019s Worldwide festival at Leysin in the Swiss Alps.Apart from that last one, that is. Napcore was the pre-dinner snooze strategy my ski buddy and I adopted to make sure we experienced Leysin\u2019s pistes to the max, as well as the event\u2019s sonic riches.\u201cHands up,\u201d Peterson told me at the event. \u201cAt the first edition, in 2013, we made some schoolboy errors. We underestimated how much people would want to ski and board, and how tired that makes you. So, with our parties starting at midnight and running till 4am or later, we had some zombies on our hands. This time we\u2019ve put more focus on the outdoor, afternoon apr\u00e8s-ski sets, plus earlier smaller-scale club nights, so the sporty ones can get up in the morning.\u201dThis relaxed programming approach drew around 600 attendees to Leysin last year, including 200 locals, forming a laid-back and like-minded music-loving community.\u201cEveryone\u2019s here because they actively seek out this kind of music,\u201d Adam, a fresh-faced marketer from London told me, \u201cso they already have a passion in common.\u201d\u201cAnd the small scale makes it really friendly,\u201d added Nina, a GP and Adam\u2019s new BFF since they met at one of the parties. \u201cYou don\u2019t even need to swap numbers. We just say \u2018See you later\u2019, and somewhere around town, or on the terrace of the Les Fers restaurant [on the slopes where Parisian DJs are putting on soul, funk and disco daytime sets], it just happens.\u201dBuilt on the steep, south-facing slopes of the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef, high above the Rh\u00f4ne valley, Leysin\u2019s distinctive architecture speaks of its history. The higher reaches, many switchbacks above the traditional wooden chalets at its base, are studded with palatial belle \u00e9poque sanatoriums, and it is bisected by an imposing stone viaduct that hauls cog trains up from the valley floor. Its look is part Wes Anderson\u2019s Grand Budapest Hotel, part Lowry townscape.As a ski resort, it\u2019s no Zermatt, although the large freestyle park that most years hosts the Champs, Europe\u2019s oldest snowboarding competition, is world-class. But its modest 60km of predominantly red and blue pistes cover a compact basin beneath the sheer cliffs at the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef\u2019s summit \u2013 offering glimpses of Lake Geneva, Mont Blanc and the Eiger \u2013 then roll down wooded lower slopes facing the Dents du Midi.There\u2019s another 40km in the next-door village of Les Mosses when conditions are good enough for the shuttle bus to run, and the 3,000m glacier area of Les Diablerets is 30km away \u2013 a feasible day out. Related: European festival awards: eastern Europe takes top prizes Late-season lift tickets are negotiated to sweeten prices for Worldwide guests \u2013 a four-day lift and party pass cost \u20ac80, or \u20ac120 for the week. The deal is a steal for beginners and intermediates though no contender for \u201cseason\u2019s main ski trip\u201d for the more experienced.The 2015 festival, from 26-29 March, is expecting to double the number of guests and has already confirmed some key acts, such as Washington DC\u2019s emerging soul-jazz master Diggs Duke, French guitar-laced house duo Kuage, house and garage star Julio Bashmore, jazzy grime trickster Swindle and dub-reggae don David Rodigan.The free apr\u00e8s-ski sets, which were highlights last year, will be repeated. \u201cThe apr\u00e8s sessions are the magic for me,\u201d says Peterson. \u201cThere\u2019s nothing like a cold beer at the end of a day\u2019s skiing when you\u2019ve got great energy from the slopes, and if you can combine that with brilliant music and fun people \u2026 it doesn\u2019t get much better.\u201d Winding up the 2014 festival\u2019s final day, his own set on the terrace of the Bel Air Hotel was a joyous avalanche of fat beats tumbling from one of Worldwide\u2019s signature precision sound systems that sent the crowd \u2013 three crowd-surfing giant penguins, a Chewbacca and a slightly weird number of Camilla Parker-Bowles masks among them \u2013 into raptures.\u201cEffortless, eclectic, uplifting genius,\u201d said Rui, a Portuguese sound designer and part-time DJ visiting for his second year, \u201cGilles Peterson should rule the world.\u201d\u2022 More details at worldwidefestival.com and leysin.ch. Flights from London City to Geneva provided by Swiss (swiss.com), returns from \u00a399. Train travel from Geneva airport to Leysin costs \u00a334.70 return (sbb.ch). Accommodation provided by Mercure Classic Hotel (classic-hotel.ch, doubles from \u00a377 B&B)", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Festivals", "Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Music festivals", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-03-09T10:20:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Reports in the Iranian press today are saying that the next round of the Iran nuclear negotiations are going to take place in Lausanne, Switzerland. If true, and the Iranian media have usually been reliable on such logistical details, it will extend a tour of luxury hotel destinations the long-running talks have taken in, in the wake of Vienna, Geneva and Montreux. Clearly, the negotiators from the seven countries (and EU) taking part feel they deserve a certain degree of comfort for the very long hours they have put in so far.This will be the last negotiating round before the Persian New Year, Nowruz, on March 21, though the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, has said is he prepared to soldier on at the expense of family festivities. Western negotiators say that this five-day session is intended to be the decisive round for producing a framework agreement. At the moment, there are no plans for a further round, and if progress is being made, they diplomats will extend this session, most likely in the presence of foreign ministers, rather than adjourn.We have heard this several times before. These negotiations on the future scope of Iran\u2019s nuclear programme have bulldozed two previous deadlines. The end-March target for a framework agreement, laid down by foreign ministers when the last deadline was missed in November, is supposed to be bolstered by political urgency supplied by an impatience and sceptical Congress. The Senate had given the Obama administration until March 24 to come up with a framework. But even that looks a bit fuzzy now. As Politico notes, the Senate goes into recess three days after that date until April 13, so the diplomats do in theory have a few more weeks. The final deadline for a full deal with all the details worked out, is not until the end of June.However, while the dates may get blurry, western negotiators say that the framework agreement when it comes will have to be a lot more than a statement of intent. It will have to include the main parameters and numbers, including the crucial limits on Iranian uranium enrichment capacity and a timetable for lifting sanctions. Even if that is agreed, the diplomats warn, the deal could still be derailed when it comes to do filling in the details afterwards. It is only if and when that is done that this diplomatic marathon can be said to have reached the finishing line. ", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Switzerland"], "title": "Next (and supposedly decisive) Iran nuclear talks due to start on Sunday in Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-02-10T19:45:37Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "You write \u201cSo far, Switzerland has concentrated on bringing Herv\u00e9 Falciani, the bank IT worker who leaked the data, to justice\u201d (Report, 10 February). This wording is too favourable to the Swiss. You should either use neutral terminology, such as \u201cSwitzerland concentrates on prosecuting Falciani\u201d, or state the truth: \u201cSwitzerland continues to engage in witness intimidation\u201d.Dr David CooperNewbury, Berkshire\u2022 How fortunate that none of the wealthy and criminal clients of HSBC (HMRC knew of wrongdoing, but did not prosecute bank, 10 February) stole a bottle of water. As we know from the government\u2019s comments after the jailing of someone for just such a minor theft during the 2011 riots, criminal behaviour of that nature fully deserves a custodial sentence.Dr Chris MorrisKidderminster, Worcestershire\u2022 I read with increasing alarm the growing list of unethical if not illegal activities of the HSBC group. It seems wealthy customers can put pressure on the bank. I suggest that their large numbers of less wealthy clients, including those of First Direct, write to the bank and ask them why they should not withdraw their accounts.Mick FarrantLondon\u2022 On the road to Damascus, Ian Birrell learns that the super-rich \u201cseek to capture western governments, ensuring they can increase their wealth while protecting their interests\u201d (Opinion, 10 February). How many New Labour grandees did he pass travelling in the opposite direction?Paul MartinLondon\u2022 My son was fined \u00a31,200 for late return of his self-assessment tax form. He worked six months of the year at the minimum wage to earn money to go travelling. Tax owed: zero. Value of assets held by HSBC\u2019s \u201cwealthy and criminal clients\u201d: \u00a378bn. Fined: zero.Lin McCullochLondon\u2022 Out of curiosity, how many plasterers, nurses or lecturers were there/are there on the board of HSBC?John CumminsCallander, Stirling", "tags": ["HSBC", "UK news", "World news", "HMRC", "Switzerland", "Tax avoidance", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Notes on a scandal of money and power involving HSBC, HMRC and Switzerland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-01-21T06:00:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Clutching a lunchtime orange juice and sandwich in Zurich\u2019s central station, nurse Nelly Studer captured the fears gnawing at Switzerland since the drama in the foreign exchange markets last Thursday when the Swiss franc jumped 30% in value against the euro.\u201cI hope that our exporters are not going to move jobs abroad. We need to keep jobs in Switzerland, and I hope they do not cut salaries either,\u201d Studer said.\u201cI think that companies who rely on exports will have to find solutions. It will be very hard for them, very difficult.\u201dThe Swiss central bank\u2019s decision to abandon its cap against the euro made its chairman, Thomas Jordan, an unpopular man in the foreign exchange markets. But there was little outward sign that Swiss citizens were angry with Jordan on the road to Davos on Tuesday.Despite Studer\u2019s worries, she still welcomed the move to remove the \u201cartificial\u201d cap on the value of the franc.She didn\u2019t fear for her own career, as the health centre where she works is short of staff, she said. But she frets that exporters suffer, if their goods are too expensive in foreign markets.On the train out of Zurich\u2019s main station, a mechanic who worked for a international company and preferred not to give his name, admitted: \u201cIt\u2019s not good for exporters.\u201dThe cap had been in place in September 2011, as Swiss policymakers tried to prevent their currency becoming too strong. Its popularity as a safe haven rose steadily amid the eurozone storm. The Russian crisis last year had exacerbated the inflows into Switzerland and left the country with a battle on its hands to stop its currency strengthening through 1.20 against the euro.After Jordan\u2019s move \u2013 which caught out many FX traders, forcing several brokers to collapse \u2013 the currency experienced one of the biggest one-day surges in history.Swiss nationals were surprised too. \u201cWe started January thinking that the cap would go on and on, and then boom, it was gone,\u201d Struder said. But that\u2019s not a reason to criticise the SNB chairman. \u201cI have confidence in his abilities \u2026 removing the ceiling against the euro was the right thing to do\u201d.Jordan, like many central bank chiefs, is attending the World Economic Forum in Davos this week where his action is likely to be the subject of much debate. Economists fear a stronger franc will hurt economic growth and raise the risk of deflation.Carl M\u00fcller, a pensioner travelling from Zurich with his wife, also retains his faith in Jordan.\u201cThere has been too much panicking. We need to wait and see how the situation stabilises,\u201d he explained, as his carriage wound around the tranquil shore of Lake Z\u00fcrich.Critics of the central bank are unhappy that it abandoned the cap without warning, having recently pledged to maintain it. But there was little sympathy for such complaints among the passengers of the express to Chur.\u201cThey had to act immediately, or speculators would have profited,\u201d pointed out Frau M\u00fcller.Instead Jordan ended up causing pain for many in the markets who had expected the peg would stay in place.As delegates began to register for the annual meeting in Davos \u2013 where 2,500 business executives, world leaders and policymakers try to put the world\u2019s problems to rights \u2013 hoteliers and shopkeepers were more reluctant to offer a view.Attendees have avoided the worst of the currency move as hoteliers demand payment in advance. But tourists with skiing on their minds might baulk at paying more than 700 francs for the cheapest set of skis. Switzerland was already one of the world\u2019s most expensive countries. A small cup of coffee on that train out of Zurich would set you back SFr4.30, or a hefty \u00a33.20 at today\u2019s exchange rate.M\u00fcller predicts tougher times for Switzerland\u2019s tourist industry. They cannot simply expect eurozone visitors to swallow a 20% increase in bills when visiting the country. \u201cWe are quite pricey already,\u201d he points out.", "tags": ["Davos 2015", "Davos", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics"], "title": "Switzerland braces for tougher times after franc jumps in value against euro"},{"date": "2015-01-19T10:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Last week, the Swiss government proposed a \u201csafeguard clause\u201d to limit EU immigration. British Eurosceptics\u2019 ears pricked up: the proposal sounds remarkably like Downing Street\u2019s \u201cemergency brake\u201d proposal, which David Cameron eventually backed away from in his immigration speech in November. Many within Ukip and the Conservative party would like Britain to withdraw to a Swiss-style relationship with the EU, which they hope would allow them to pick and choose. Should the Swiss succeed, British Eurosceptics will ask: if they can limit immigration from central and eastern Europe, why shouldn\u2019t we?There are several parallels between the Swiss and the British. Both are geographically separated from the rest of Europe \u2013 the Swiss by mountains, the British by water \u2013 while being economically and politically entangled with it. Both countries have received increasing numbers of immigrants in the past 15 years, especially from the EU. They have a fractious relationship with the EU, carefully weigh the economic costs and benefits of integration, and are sceptical of grand projects (an approach that might have better served those countries that signed up to the euro). And the way both countries\u2019 psychodramas over immigration and the EU have played out is very similar.In February 2014, in a referendum called by the rightwing People\u2019s party, the Swiss voted to impose quotas on immigration from the EU, which would mean tearing up a 1999 agreement to allow free movement. The government has three years to negotiate a deal with the EU \u2013 which means a deadline in 2017.Like Cameron, who is disappointing Eurosceptics with the timidity of his reform programme, the Swiss have been forced to accede to the realities of negotiating with a much bigger player. The EU stopped Swiss scientists from being able to receive grants from the EU\u2019s Horizon programme as a first shot across the bows, and said they would only be able consider the Swiss case once they heard some details.After a year of deliberation, the country\u2019s government has come up with a more modest proposal to close the border if immigration from the EU runs higher than an as-yet-unspecified threshold. It has proved unwilling to be specific in public about its plans: if the government demanded a threshold that was high, the Swiss people would feel cheated \u2013 but if it was low, the EU would never accept it. The same dilemma faces Cameron. He rejected the idea of a safeguard clause \u2013 a kite that senior Conservatives had flown for him before his immigration speech \u2013 after Merkel made it plain that she would not accept any limits on the freedom of movement, although the EU would listen to proposals to restrict migrants\u2019 access to benefits. And Brussels will \u2013 and should \u2013 play hardball with the Swiss to discourage the British, as well as France, Sweden and Denmark who are having similar anxieties about European migration.This isn\u2019t just stubbornness, or a federalist insistence on integration for its own sake. The EU is simply a grand bargain, in which member-states hope to offer up sovereignty for mutual benefit. This requires that the demands of poorer countries, which have migrants who want to profit from their labour, be balanced with those of richer ones, which have export sales and investments that they can profit from in poorer countries. If a country seeks to withdraw from some parts of the bargain that it does not like, there must be consequences, or the whole thing will unravel.And migration is probably the biggest benefit in a club beset by economic problems that are largely of its own making. It is the policy the EU should be most proud of: for central and eastern Europe, it is the biggest advancement of liberty since the fall of the Berlin Wall. Central and eastern Europeans\u2019 incomes can triple by moving to the UK \u2013 and the evidence shows that they do negligible damage to low-skilled Britons\u2019 employment prospects. A stream of young, well-educated, easy-to-integrate and hard-working people does wonders for western European countries\u2019 public finances, and helps to fill jobs as baby boomers retire.The EU has the whip hand with the Swiss, and should use it. The EU should demand that unless Switzerland agrees to full free movement rights, as laid down in an agreement signed in 1999, the EU will no longer be bound by its provisions either. The member-states should be willing to make Swiss migrants go through their non-EEA immigration route in order to have access to their labour markets. And if the Swiss still refuse to back down, the EU can take the nuclear option of invoking the \u201cguillotine\u201d clause in its treaties with Switzerland. This gives it the right to suspend all economic agreements \u2013 trade, scientific co-operation, public procurement and so on \u2013 if Switzerland reneges on one agreement.Switzerland, as a sovereign nation, has every right to withdraw from treaties when it likes. So too does the UK \u2013 it can withdraw from the EU at any time. But neither should pretend that there will not be serious collateral damage from an attempt to pick and choose.", "tags": ["European Union", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Migration", "Global economy"], "title": "When you join the EU you make a deal \u2013 Switzerland needs to remember that | John Springford"},{"date": "2015-03-18T16:35:58Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland is to give Nigeria $380m (\u00a3260m) that was allegedly looted by the former military dictator Sani Abacha and stored in European bank accounts, officials announced on Tuesday.The transfer will be carried out under the supervision of the World Bank, ending 16 years of court wrangling.Abacha, who ruled Nigeria for five years after a 1993 coup, is believed to have stolen $4.3bn while in office, placing him among the ranks of Congo\u2019s Mobutu Sese Seko as one of Africa\u2019s most avaricious kleptocrats.Following his death from a sudden heart attack in 1998, the Nigerian government asked Switzerland to help it recover $2.2bn that he was said to have stashed in European bank accounts. The tax haven was forced to relax banking secrecy regulations after some landmark rulings.The $380m had been placed in several accounts abroad that were controlled by the Abacha family, which is considered a criminal organisation, the prosecutor\u2019s office in the Swiss capital, Geneva, said on Tuesday. It was seized in 2006 in Luxembourg following a request from Swiss authorities.The decision to return it to Nigeria follows a deal struck last July between the west Africa country\u2019s government and the Abacha family. Under the agreement, the funds will be confiscated and sent back to Nigeria, while the government will drop its case against the deceased dictator\u2019s son Abba Abacha.The greed of Abacha appalled even Nigerians used to plundering on a grand scale. After his death aged 54, his wife Maryam was caught trying to flee the country with 38 suitcases stuffed with cash. The $5m Peace Foundation set up by the family to sell \u201cAbacha-themed\u201d televisions, sandals, rice and soap later collapsed.Abacha was also notoriously brutal autocrat accused of countless human rights abuses. The hanging in 1995 of writer and human rights activist Ken Saro-Wiwa and eight other dissidents caused worldwide revulsion.It would not be possible for African leaders to loot \u2026 if there were no countries willing to receive these fundsDr John-Mark Iyi, a Nigerian academic, was among students who demonstrated against Abacha on the night he took power, recalling student organisations were instantly banned. \u201cIt is more or less common knowledge that the Abacha regime was a criminal syndicate that looted Nigeria blind. His was the most brutal regime Nigeria ever had. People say he ruled with an iron fist; in my view that is an understatement. He ran hit squads, people disappeared and a whole lot of human rights violations took place.\u201dIyi, now based at at the University of Johannesburg in South Africa, expressed satisfaction at the return of the funds but said Europe must take responsibility for effectively assisting Africa\u2019s kleptocrats. \u201cIt is a welcome development on the part of the Swiss government, but it is only one of several cases of looted funds awaiting return from European governments.\u201cIt would not be possible for African leaders to loot their national treasuries if there were no countries willing to receive these funds. If you preach transparency and accountability, you should not have the facility to transfer illicit funds to your own country.\u201dSwitzerland has previously returned to Nigeria more than $700m that Abacha hid in Swiss accounts \u2013 the first time European banks had returned looted money to an African country.Last month an African Union report found that the continent loses more than $50bn every year in illicit financial outflows as governments and multinational companies engage in fraudulent schemes aimed at avoiding tax payments to some of the world\u2019s poorest countries.In total, Africa lost about $850bn between 1970 and 2008, the report said. An estimated $217.7bn was illegally transferred out of Nigeria over that period, while Egypt lost $105.2bn and South Africa more than $81.8bn.", "tags": ["Nigeria", "Switzerland", "World Bank", "Africa", "Europe", "Tax avoidance", "Global economy", "World news"], "title": "Switzerland to return Sani Abacha 'loot' money to Nigeria"},{"date": "2015-03-18T06:00:18Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "It\u2019s 10am and I am on a Swiss mountain holding a saw. My mission is to help build an igloo by 5pm, sleep in it and \u2013 most importantly \u2013 wake up next morning. It is the fourth annual Igloo Festival in the ski resort of in Adelboden, and teams of enthusiasts and novices gather at an altitude of 2,000m on the Engstligenalp plateau to spend their Saturday competing to see who can build the best igloo. Engstligenalp is the perfect location, since it\u2019s large enough to accommodate hundreds of igloos, if need be, and one of the few places that can guarantee an abundance of snow in March. Related: Satellite ski resorts \u2013 how to get Verbier snow for half the dough While fancy igloos have become popular as overnight options in ski resorts, the Igloo Festival is a chance to build and sleep in the real deal (unless you can rustle up a glass-roofed designer igloo with fur bedding in eight hours). Anyone can participate and there\u2019s no limit on team numbers \u2026 but the igloo has to be big enough to sleep the entire team. The well-heated Berghotel is within trudging distance for showering, storing luggage and, if your igloo-building skills prove inadequate, for sleeping.The ideal for the Igloo Festival came from its former sponsor, outdoor clothing firm Transa. In 2012, it attempted to set a Guinness world record in igloo building: 200 igloos with 400 participants. It only managed 60 igloos and 125 participants, but everyone had such a good time that the festival simply continued.There\u2019s already a circle of fledgling igloos when our five-strong team arrive at 10am, and experts and volunteers from The Alpine School, clothing specialist Sherpa Outdoor and the tourism office dart around offering guidance. An igloo with worryingly neat bricks is being built next to our spot by a father-and-son team. Bruno Schaub from the tourist office translates: \u201cHe\u2019s here because he wants to have a good time with his son.\u201dThe participants are mainly Swiss, though British, French, Italian and German teams have taken part. Many have built igloos before. A love of outdoor activities and the desire to do something different are common themes in today\u2019s igloo village. Related: The best places to stay in the Alps in summer: hotels, chalets and campsites To begin, we draw a circle on the ground using a stick and string as a giant compass. Sawing into the snow, we cut 20cm-thick bricks about the size of an A3 sheet, and place them in a circle, leaning slightly inwards. Rachel Rosser, events executive for the Ski Club of Great Britain, and Bruno saw the tops off the bricks on a diagonal so that the bricks will stack in a spiral. While we pack snow into the cracks, Bruno places the bricks until he has built himself into the igloo. Now the job is to dig an entrance (or, for Bruno, an exit). An igloo\u2019s entrance has to sit below the sleeping platform so the cold air sinks and the space stays cosy.In an attempt to earn \u201ccreativity points\u201d we make a snowman head for the top of the igloo, with oranges for eyes, a pear nose and a Twix mouth. But thing go awry: Rachel loses her grip and drops the head on the igloo, which leaves a gaping hole in the side. After howling and rending our garments, we manage to repair it before the 5pm deadline.Night falls, and we gather around the igloo bar, a small wall of snow bricks in the centre of the circle of igloos. Participants are served a nightcap of gl\u00fchwein (mulled wine), and as we drink we guess which igloo will snag the prizes: Sherpa Outdoor outfits, ski passes, bottles of wine, dinner in the Fondue Igloo and tickets to the Adelboden Adventure Park. Most bet on the preposterously huge double igloo with an adjoining corridor, built by a team celebrating a birthday, but I\u2019m rooting for the one made to look like a giant turtle.With trepidation, Rachel and I (the only two to brave a night in our igloo) get ready for \u201cbed\u201d. I\u2019m by the wall that we had to rebuild after \u201cHead Gate\u201d. It\u2019s caving in and looks like it would collapse if a pigeon landed on it. I give it a test poke \u2013 it\u2019s frozen solid.Our hooded sleeping bags have a fleece bag, a synthetic down sack and a plastic outer layer. I zip up, hood up, and wriggle in. Rachel\u2019s bleatings about the cold are muffled, but her snoring soon comes loud and clear. I feel like I\u2019m cowering in a snowman\u2019s armpit. I\u2019m not sleeping; I\u2019m playing dead. Related: Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland Sealed inside the sleeping bag, I find my oxygen supply runs out fast. I start panting and get a headache, and figure that poking my head out for a few gulps of the thin alpine air are worth a blast of cold. And a blast is what I get: our slapdash packing left cracks between some of the bricks and the wind is blowing through. Then claustrophobia kicks in. The once blue-and-sparkly igloo ceiling is now grey and black and closing in. The wind gusts through the cracks. I wipe snowflakes off my cheek.At 3:54am, I nudge the other body bag, \u201cRachel. It\u2019s snowing on my face.\u201d\u201cYeah, I can\u2019t stop shivering,\u201d she says through chattering teeth, \u201ccan we leave?\u201dWe pull on our boots and layers and headtorches, before fireman-crawling through the tunnel into -20C windchill. We make the 15-minute walk back to Berghotel, but don\u2019t have the heart to crash into the dorm and wake our teammates for the sake of two hours\u2019 sleep, so we settle ourselves the empty hotel bar, take dark-eyed selfies for posterity, and wait for the sun to come up. We may as well get an incredible sunrise out of this.At 6:40am that\u2019s just what we get. We stand by the ski lift as it delivers early morning skiers, our bloodshot eyes widening at the blue mist over the village below, the fading crescent moon, and the red skies rising over the mountains. Worth five hours trying to sleep in a windy freezer? Yes.At breakfast with our well-rested teammates, we\u2019re sleep-deprived and thawing more slowly than a turkey in the fridge, but our spirits are high. At 9am, we\u2019re awarded 14th place out of 22. The turtle igloo comes second, pipped at the post by the double with the corridor. No matter: plans for next year\u2019s well-packed igloo, with infinity pool, are already in place.\u2022 The trip was provided by Switzerland Tourism (myswitzerland.com) and Adelboden-Frutigen Tourism (adelboden.ch). The Igloo Festival takes place on a Saturday in mid-March every year, 9am-5pm. Packages cost from \u00a359 (self-catering), including lift pass to Engstligenalp, welcome pack, instructions, equipment and nightcap. The \u00a3100 Luxury option adds lunch, dinner and breakfast in the nearby BergHotel, but your bed is in your igloo", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Adventure travel", "Winter sports holidays", "Europe holidays", "Short breaks", "Travel"], "title": "Block rockin\u2019 feats: at Adelboden Igloo Festival, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-01-31T07:00:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Electro, dubstep, nu disco, footwork, hip-hop, UK funky, deep house ... napcore \u2026 Just a handful of the dance music genres that rocked my snowboard boots last March at DJ Gilles Peterson\u2019s Worldwide festival at Leysin in the Swiss Alps.Apart from that last one, that is. Napcore was the pre-dinner snooze strategy my ski buddy and I adopted to make sure we experienced Leysin\u2019s pistes to the max, as well as the event\u2019s sonic riches.\u201cHands up,\u201d Peterson told me at the event. \u201cAt the first edition, in 2013, we made some schoolboy errors. We underestimated how much people would want to ski and board, and how tired that makes you. So, with our parties starting at midnight and running till 4am or later, we had some zombies on our hands. This time we\u2019ve put more focus on the outdoor, afternoon apr\u00e8s-ski sets, plus earlier smaller-scale club nights, so the sporty ones can get up in the morning.\u201dThis relaxed programming approach drew around 600 attendees to Leysin last year, including 200 locals, forming a laid-back and like-minded music-loving community.\u201cEveryone\u2019s here because they actively seek out this kind of music,\u201d Adam, a fresh-faced marketer from London told me, \u201cso they already have a passion in common.\u201d\u201cAnd the small scale makes it really friendly,\u201d added Nina, a GP and Adam\u2019s new BFF since they met at one of the parties. \u201cYou don\u2019t even need to swap numbers. We just say \u2018See you later\u2019, and somewhere around town, or on the terrace of the Les Fers restaurant [on the slopes where Parisian DJs are putting on soul, funk and disco daytime sets], it just happens.\u201dBuilt on the steep, south-facing slopes of the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef, high above the Rh\u00f4ne valley, Leysin\u2019s distinctive architecture speaks of its history. The higher reaches, many switchbacks above the traditional wooden chalets at its base, are studded with palatial belle \u00e9poque sanatoriums, and it is bisected by an imposing stone viaduct that hauls cog trains up from the valley floor. Its look is part Wes Anderson\u2019s Grand Budapest Hotel, part Lowry townscape.As a ski resort, it\u2019s no Zermatt, although the large freestyle park that most years hosts the Champs, Europe\u2019s oldest snowboarding competition, is world-class. But its modest 60km of predominantly red and blue pistes cover a compact basin beneath the sheer cliffs at the Tour d\u2019A\u00ef\u2019s summit \u2013 offering glimpses of Lake Geneva, Mont Blanc and the Eiger \u2013 then roll down wooded lower slopes facing the Dents du Midi.There\u2019s another 40km in the next-door village of Les Mosses when conditions are good enough for the shuttle bus to run, and the 3,000m glacier area of Les Diablerets is 30km away \u2013 a feasible day out. Related: European festival awards: eastern Europe takes top prizes Late-season lift tickets are negotiated to sweeten prices for Worldwide guests \u2013 a four-day lift and party pass cost \u20ac80, or \u20ac120 for the week. The deal is a steal for beginners and intermediates though no contender for \u201cseason\u2019s main ski trip\u201d for the more experienced.The 2015 festival, from 26-29 March, is expecting to double the number of guests and has already confirmed some key acts, such as Washington DC\u2019s emerging soul-jazz master Diggs Duke, French guitar-laced house duo Kuage, house and garage star Julio Bashmore, jazzy grime trickster Swindle and dub-reggae don David Rodigan.The free apr\u00e8s-ski sets, which were highlights last year, will be repeated. \u201cThe apr\u00e8s sessions are the magic for me,\u201d says Peterson. \u201cThere\u2019s nothing like a cold beer at the end of a day\u2019s skiing when you\u2019ve got great energy from the slopes, and if you can combine that with brilliant music and fun people \u2026 it doesn\u2019t get much better.\u201d Winding up the 2014 festival\u2019s final day, his own set on the terrace of the Bel Air Hotel was a joyous avalanche of fat beats tumbling from one of Worldwide\u2019s signature precision sound systems that sent the crowd \u2013 three crowd-surfing giant penguins, a Chewbacca and a slightly weird number of Camilla Parker-Bowles masks among them \u2013 into raptures.\u201cEffortless, eclectic, uplifting genius,\u201d said Rui, a Portuguese sound designer and part-time DJ visiting for his second year, \u201cGilles Peterson should rule the world.\u201d\u2022 More details at worldwidefestival.com and leysin.ch. Flights from London City to Geneva provided by Swiss (swiss.com), returns from \u00a399. Train travel from Geneva airport to Leysin costs \u00a334.70 return (sbb.ch). Accommodation provided by Mercure Classic Hotel (classic-hotel.ch, doubles from \u00a377 B&B)", "tags": ["Switzerland holidays", "Festivals", "Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Music festivals", "Europe holidays", "Travel", "Festivals", "Dance music", "Music", "Culture", "Snowboarding"], "title": "Worldwide ski festival: tracks in the snow at Leysin, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-03-09T10:20:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Reports in the Iranian press today are saying that the next round of the Iran nuclear negotiations are going to take place in Lausanne, Switzerland. If true, and the Iranian media have usually been reliable on such logistical details, it will extend a tour of luxury hotel destinations the long-running talks have taken in, in the wake of Vienna, Geneva and Montreux. Clearly, the negotiators from the seven countries (and EU) taking part feel they deserve a certain degree of comfort for the very long hours they have put in so far.This will be the last negotiating round before the Persian New Year, Nowruz, on March 21, though the Iranian foreign minister, Mohammad Javad Zarif, has said is he prepared to soldier on at the expense of family festivities. Western negotiators say that this five-day session is intended to be the decisive round for producing a framework agreement. At the moment, there are no plans for a further round, and if progress is being made, they diplomats will extend this session, most likely in the presence of foreign ministers, rather than adjourn.We have heard this several times before. These negotiations on the future scope of Iran\u2019s nuclear programme have bulldozed two previous deadlines. The end-March target for a framework agreement, laid down by foreign ministers when the last deadline was missed in November, is supposed to be bolstered by political urgency supplied by an impatience and sceptical Congress. The Senate had given the Obama administration until March 24 to come up with a framework. But even that looks a bit fuzzy now. As Politico notes, the Senate goes into recess three days after that date until April 13, so the diplomats do in theory have a few more weeks. The final deadline for a full deal with all the details worked out, is not until the end of June.However, while the dates may get blurry, western negotiators say that the framework agreement when it comes will have to be a lot more than a statement of intent. It will have to include the main parameters and numbers, including the crucial limits on Iranian uranium enrichment capacity and a timetable for lifting sanctions. Even if that is agreed, the diplomats warn, the deal could still be derailed when it comes to do filling in the details afterwards. It is only if and when that is done that this diplomatic marathon can be said to have reached the finishing line. ", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Obama administration", "Switzerland"], "title": "Next (and supposedly decisive) Iran nuclear talks due to start on Sunday in Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-02-10T19:45:37Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "You write \u201cSo far, Switzerland has concentrated on bringing Herv\u00e9 Falciani, the bank IT worker who leaked the data, to justice\u201d (Report, 10 February). This wording is too favourable to the Swiss. You should either use neutral terminology, such as \u201cSwitzerland concentrates on prosecuting Falciani\u201d, or state the truth: \u201cSwitzerland continues to engage in witness intimidation\u201d.Dr David CooperNewbury, Berkshire\u2022 How fortunate that none of the wealthy and criminal clients of HSBC (HMRC knew of wrongdoing, but did not prosecute bank, 10 February) stole a bottle of water. As we know from the government\u2019s comments after the jailing of someone for just such a minor theft during the 2011 riots, criminal behaviour of that nature fully deserves a custodial sentence.Dr Chris MorrisKidderminster, Worcestershire\u2022 I read with increasing alarm the growing list of unethical if not illegal activities of the HSBC group. It seems wealthy customers can put pressure on the bank. I suggest that their large numbers of less wealthy clients, including those of First Direct, write to the bank and ask them why they should not withdraw their accounts.Mick FarrantLondon\u2022 On the road to Damascus, Ian Birrell learns that the super-rich \u201cseek to capture western governments, ensuring they can increase their wealth while protecting their interests\u201d (Opinion, 10 February). How many New Labour grandees did he pass travelling in the opposite direction?Paul MartinLondon\u2022 My son was fined \u00a31,200 for late return of his self-assessment tax form. He worked six months of the year at the minimum wage to earn money to go travelling. Tax owed: zero. Value of assets held by HSBC\u2019s \u201cwealthy and criminal clients\u201d: \u00a378bn. Fined: zero.Lin McCullochLondon\u2022 Out of curiosity, how many plasterers, nurses or lecturers were there/are there on the board of HSBC?John CumminsCallander, Stirling", "tags": ["HSBC", "UK news", "World news", "HMRC", "Switzerland", "Tax avoidance", "Tax and spending", "Politics"], "title": "Notes on a scandal of money and power involving HSBC, HMRC and Switzerland | Letters"},{"date": "2015-01-21T06:00:01Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Clutching a lunchtime orange juice and sandwich in Zurich\u2019s central station, nurse Nelly Studer captured the fears gnawing at Switzerland since the drama in the foreign exchange markets last Thursday when the Swiss franc jumped 30% in value against the euro.\u201cI hope that our exporters are not going to move jobs abroad. We need to keep jobs in Switzerland, and I hope they do not cut salaries either,\u201d Studer said.\u201cI think that companies who rely on exports will have to find solutions. It will be very hard for them, very difficult.\u201dThe Swiss central bank\u2019s decision to abandon its cap against the euro made its chairman, Thomas Jordan, an unpopular man in the foreign exchange markets. But there was little outward sign that Swiss citizens were angry with Jordan on the road to Davos on Tuesday.Despite Studer\u2019s worries, she still welcomed the move to remove the \u201cartificial\u201d cap on the value of the franc.She didn\u2019t fear for her own career, as the health centre where she works is short of staff, she said. But she frets that exporters suffer, if their goods are too expensive in foreign markets.On the train out of Zurich\u2019s main station, a mechanic who worked for a international company and preferred not to give his name, admitted: \u201cIt\u2019s not good for exporters.\u201dThe cap had been in place in September 2011, as Swiss policymakers tried to prevent their currency becoming too strong. Its popularity as a safe haven rose steadily amid the eurozone storm. The Russian crisis last year had exacerbated the inflows into Switzerland and left the country with a battle on its hands to stop its currency strengthening through 1.20 against the euro.After Jordan\u2019s move \u2013 which caught out many FX traders, forcing several brokers to collapse \u2013 the currency experienced one of the biggest one-day surges in history.Swiss nationals were surprised too. \u201cWe started January thinking that the cap would go on and on, and then boom, it was gone,\u201d Struder said. But that\u2019s not a reason to criticise the SNB chairman. \u201cI have confidence in his abilities \u2026 removing the ceiling against the euro was the right thing to do\u201d.Jordan, like many central bank chiefs, is attending the World Economic Forum in Davos this week where his action is likely to be the subject of much debate. Economists fear a stronger franc will hurt economic growth and raise the risk of deflation.Carl M\u00fcller, a pensioner travelling from Zurich with his wife, also retains his faith in Jordan.\u201cThere has been too much panicking. We need to wait and see how the situation stabilises,\u201d he explained, as his carriage wound around the tranquil shore of Lake Z\u00fcrich.Critics of the central bank are unhappy that it abandoned the cap without warning, having recently pledged to maintain it. But there was little sympathy for such complaints among the passengers of the express to Chur.\u201cThey had to act immediately, or speculators would have profited,\u201d pointed out Frau M\u00fcller.Instead Jordan ended up causing pain for many in the markets who had expected the peg would stay in place.As delegates began to register for the annual meeting in Davos \u2013 where 2,500 business executives, world leaders and policymakers try to put the world\u2019s problems to rights \u2013 hoteliers and shopkeepers were more reluctant to offer a view.Attendees have avoided the worst of the currency move as hoteliers demand payment in advance. But tourists with skiing on their minds might baulk at paying more than 700 francs for the cheapest set of skis. Switzerland was already one of the world\u2019s most expensive countries. A small cup of coffee on that train out of Zurich would set you back SFr4.30, or a hefty \u00a33.20 at today\u2019s exchange rate.M\u00fcller predicts tougher times for Switzerland\u2019s tourist industry. They cannot simply expect eurozone visitors to swallow a 20% increase in bills when visiting the country. \u201cWe are quite pricey already,\u201d he points out.", "tags": ["Davos 2015", "Davos", "Business", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Currencies", "Euro", "European Union", "Economics"], "title": "Switzerland braces for tougher times after franc jumps in value against euro"},{"date": "2015-01-19T10:00:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Last week, the Swiss government proposed a \u201csafeguard clause\u201d to limit EU immigration. British Eurosceptics\u2019 ears pricked up: the proposal sounds remarkably like Downing Street\u2019s \u201cemergency brake\u201d proposal, which David Cameron eventually backed away from in his immigration speech in November. Many within Ukip and the Conservative party would like Britain to withdraw to a Swiss-style relationship with the EU, which they hope would allow them to pick and choose. Should the Swiss succeed, British Eurosceptics will ask: if they can limit immigration from central and eastern Europe, why shouldn\u2019t we?There are several parallels between the Swiss and the British. Both are geographically separated from the rest of Europe \u2013 the Swiss by mountains, the British by water \u2013 while being economically and politically entangled with it. Both countries have received increasing numbers of immigrants in the past 15 years, especially from the EU. They have a fractious relationship with the EU, carefully weigh the economic costs and benefits of integration, and are sceptical of grand projects (an approach that might have better served those countries that signed up to the euro). And the way both countries\u2019 psychodramas over immigration and the EU have played out is very similar.In February 2014, in a referendum called by the rightwing People\u2019s party, the Swiss voted to impose quotas on immigration from the EU, which would mean tearing up a 1999 agreement to allow free movement. The government has three years to negotiate a deal with the EU \u2013 which means a deadline in 2017.Like Cameron, who is disappointing Eurosceptics with the timidity of his reform programme, the Swiss have been forced to accede to the realities of negotiating with a much bigger player. The EU stopped Swiss scientists from being able to receive grants from the EU\u2019s Horizon programme as a first shot across the bows, and said they would only be able consider the Swiss case once they heard some details.After a year of deliberation, the country\u2019s government has come up with a more modest proposal to close the border if immigration from the EU runs higher than an as-yet-unspecified threshold. It has proved unwilling to be specific in public about its plans: if the government demanded a threshold that was high, the Swiss people would feel cheated \u2013 but if it was low, the EU would never accept it. The same dilemma faces Cameron. He rejected the idea of a safeguard clause \u2013 a kite that senior Conservatives had flown for him before his immigration speech \u2013 after Merkel made it plain that she would not accept any limits on the freedom of movement, although the EU would listen to proposals to restrict migrants\u2019 access to benefits. And Brussels will \u2013 and should \u2013 play hardball with the Swiss to discourage the British, as well as France, Sweden and Denmark who are having similar anxieties about European migration.This isn\u2019t just stubbornness, or a federalist insistence on integration for its own sake. The EU is simply a grand bargain, in which member-states hope to offer up sovereignty for mutual benefit. This requires that the demands of poorer countries, which have migrants who want to profit from their labour, be balanced with those of richer ones, which have export sales and investments that they can profit from in poorer countries. If a country seeks to withdraw from some parts of the bargain that it does not like, there must be consequences, or the whole thing will unravel.And migration is probably the biggest benefit in a club beset by economic problems that are largely of its own making. It is the policy the EU should be most proud of: for central and eastern Europe, it is the biggest advancement of liberty since the fall of the Berlin Wall. Central and eastern Europeans\u2019 incomes can triple by moving to the UK \u2013 and the evidence shows that they do negligible damage to low-skilled Britons\u2019 employment prospects. A stream of young, well-educated, easy-to-integrate and hard-working people does wonders for western European countries\u2019 public finances, and helps to fill jobs as baby boomers retire.The EU has the whip hand with the Swiss, and should use it. The EU should demand that unless Switzerland agrees to full free movement rights, as laid down in an agreement signed in 1999, the EU will no longer be bound by its provisions either. The member-states should be willing to make Swiss migrants go through their non-EEA immigration route in order to have access to their labour markets. And if the Swiss still refuse to back down, the EU can take the nuclear option of invoking the \u201cguillotine\u201d clause in its treaties with Switzerland. This gives it the right to suspend all economic agreements \u2013 trade, scientific co-operation, public procurement and so on \u2013 if Switzerland reneges on one agreement.Switzerland, as a sovereign nation, has every right to withdraw from treaties when it likes. So too does the UK \u2013 it can withdraw from the EU at any time. But neither should pretend that there will not be serious collateral damage from an attempt to pick and choose.", "tags": ["European Union", "Switzerland", "Europe", "World news", "Immigration and asylum", "UK news", "Migration", "Global economy"], "title": "When you join the EU you make a deal \u2013 Switzerland needs to remember that | John Springford"},{"date": "2015-01-18T23:45:07Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Snow on the roofs of the ski chalets at the upmarket ski resort may be one of the defining images of Davos, but it will be the warming of the planet that is at the top of the issues under discussion at the World Economic Forum.In the kind of speaking double act beloved of the event\u2019s organisers, Al Gore, the former US vice-president, who has described climate change as \u201cthe biggest challenge our civilisation faces\u201d, will discuss the subject alongside Pharrell Williams. The pop star, who reached No 1 with Happy, is appearing as creative director of Bionic Yarn, a company that turns fibres from recycled plastic into durable textiles.The energetic Gore is also participating in other events looking at how business should respond to climate change, alongside Lord Stern, president of the British Academy, and speakers from the insurance company Axa.\u2022 Elsewhere, conflict is the number-one issue for the political and business elite this year. The rise of Islamic State has awoken fears over failures of national governance and the collapse of nation states. Several Middle Eastern leaders are in attendance, including Egypt\u2019s president Abdel Fatah al-Sisi; King Abdullah of Jordan; Haidar al-Abadi, the prime minister of Iraq; and Massoud Barzani, the president of the autonomous Kurdistan region.The Ukraine crisis is a reminder that \u201clong-forgotten\u201d disputes can flare back into life, the World Economic Foundation says, with widespread consequences for a whole region. Petro Poroshenko, the president of Ukraine, will be looking for backing as his country risks defaulting on its debts. He should get support from George Soros, the billionaire investor and philanthropist, who is pushing European governments to offer Kiev more help. He will be lobbying the likes of Germany\u2019s Angela Merkel, France\u2019s Fran\u00e7ois Hollande and Italy\u2019s Matteo Renzi.The terror attacks in France this month will also be debated and the former UK prime minister Tony Blair, will take part in a session on Wednesday examining whether religion is a pretext for conflict.\u2022 Global authorities were slow, at least initially, to respond to the Ebola outbreak and provide resources to the countries affected, according to the organisers at Davos. The forum will ask what lessons can be learned.Panellists include Kofi Annan, former secretary general of the United Nations, as well as Margaret Chan, director general of the World Health Organisation.Alpha Cond\u00e9, the president of Guinea, who has faced accusations of being initially slow to respond to Ebola, is also speaking. The New York Times quoted him recently as saying: \u201cWhile shaving, I think of Ebola; while eating, I think of Ebola; while sleeping, I think of Ebola.\u201d\u2022 Central banks will be a major topic of conversation in the meeting rooms, coffee shops and bars of Davos as monetary policy in Europe and the US continues to diverge and inflation falls across the global economy.The shock abolition of Switzerland\u2019s currency gap last week has left many financial firms nursing losses and reminded us all that 2015 could be a turbulent year in the markets. Thomas Jordan, the Swiss central bank chief who sparked the turmoil, can expect a lively reception.At least seven other central bank chiefs are attending, including the Bank of England governor, Mark Carney.However, the European Central Bank president Mario Draghi is not attending this year. He will be stuck in Frankfurt handling the ECB\u2019s meeting on Thursday, where a big quantitative easing (QE) programme could be announced.At a debate on the prospect of higher interest rates in the US, delegates from emerging markets will be pushing American officials to handle the ending of the QE programme responsibly after seeing \u201chot money\u201d pour into their economies. They do not want a repeat of the currency crisis that struck Argentina during last year\u2019s meeting.\u2022 Meanwhile, the tumble in the oil price to five-year lows means different things to different Davos attendees. It is a bitter blow to exporters, raises political risk in the Middle East and hits growth in emerging markets.Once he arrives in Switzerland, Abdalla Salem El-Badri, Opec\u2019s secretary general, will face criticism from producers over the cartel\u2019s refusal to cut supplies.", "tags": ["Davos", "Business", "Davos 2015", "Al Gore", "US news", "Pharrell Williams", "Music", "Climate change", "Environment", "Islamic State", "World news", "Abdel Fatah al-Sisi", "King Abdullah", "Petro Poroshenko", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Angela Merkel", "Fran\u00e7ois Hollande", "Matteo Renzi", "Tony Blair", "Politics", "Ebola", "Kofi Annan", "World Health Organisation", "Society", "Health", "Switzerland", "Mark Carney", "Mario Draghi"], "title": "On the Davos agenda: from Al Gore on global warming to fears over eurozone"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:26:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Prosecutors in Switzerland and Austria have launched investigations into allegations that a computer virus was used to spy on the recent high-level Iran nuclear talks.It comes a day after a top Russia-based software security company, Kaspersky, said a spy virus dubbed Dugu 2.0 appeared to have compromised computer networks in at least three Swiss hotels that had been host to senior diplomats from Iran and the six major powers \u2013 the US, China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany \u2013 of the group known as the P5+1. The office of the Swiss attorney general announced on Thursday that police had last month raided unnamed locations in Geneva, where recent talks took place, and confiscated computer equipment and IT material. The allegations have surfaced at a critical moment in the ongoing nuclear talks ahead of an end of June deadline for a comprehensive agreement. An investigation was launched following those raids, federal Swiss prosecutors said, without mentioning which venues had been targeted. Swiss hotels that have hosted the negotiations in recent months include the Palais Wilson and Intercontinental in Geneva, the Beau Rivage in Lausanne and the Royal Plaza in Montreux.  \u201cThe aim of this raid was on one hand to gather evidence and to on the other verify if information systems had been infected by malware,\u201d the Swiss attorney general\u2019s office said, according to AFP. Austria, which also hosted the Iranian nuclear negotiations, confirmed on Thursday it was investigating separately as well. Vienna\u2019s Palais Coburg hotel has been a frequent venue for the ongoing talks. \u201cThe federal office for the protection of the constitution and counter-terrorism is aware of the information and is reviewing it,\u201d said a Vienna-based government spokesman. Related: Duqu 2.0: computer virus 'linked to Israel' found at Iran nuclear talks venue Although it is not clear who has carried out the recent cyberattacks, Dugu is related to Stuxnet, a computer worm believed to have been designed by Israel to sabotage Iran\u2019s uranium enrichment programme. Stuxnet hit Iran\u2019s nuclear facilities in 2010. Iranian authorities initially played down its impact but eventually admitted the malware had damaged the nuclear programme.Israel, which stands firmly opposed to a comprehensive deal with Iran and the lifting of sanctions as a result, has denied any links to the recent attacks. \u201cThe international reports of Israeli involvement in the matter are baseless,\u201d said Tzipi Hotovely, Israel\u2019s deputy foreign minister. \u201cWhat is much more important is that we prevent a bad agreement where at the end of the day we find ourselves with an Iranian nuclear umbrella.\u201dIn March, and in unusual comments for US administration officials, the Wall Street Journal cited senior American officials accusing Israel of spying on the nuclear talks and using the intelligence gathered to persuade sceptics in Congress to undermine the talks. Reza Najafi, Iran\u2019s ambassador to the Vienna-based UN nuclear agency, the IAEA, said the news about the cyberattack was not surprising to Iran. \u201cYou know that there are enemies of these talks and they will do whatever they can, so it\u2019s not a surprise to us,\u201d he said in reaction to the news. \u201cWe continue to take precautionary measures not to let any details of the discussion go to the public.\u201dKaspersky said in a statement published on its website on Wednesday that it believed the malware included \u201csome unique and earlier unseen features\u201d which made its creators feel confident no traces could be left. The carefully planned and sophisticated nature of the attacks led the security firm to believe that a nation state sponsored the campaign. \u201cKaspersky Lab researchers discovered the company wasn\u2019t the only target of this powerful threat actor. Other victims have been found in western countries, as well as in countries in the Middle East and Asia,\u201d the statement read. \u201cMost notably, some of the new 2014-2015 infections are linked to the P5+1 events and venues related to the negotiations with Iran about a nuclear deal. The threat actor behind Duqu appears to have launched attacks at the venues where the high-level talks took place.\u201d Symantec, a rival security company, has confirmed Kaspersky\u2019s findings.Iran and the west reached a tentative agreement on the framework of a comprehensive deal in April. Under its terms, restrictions will be placed on Iran\u2019s enrichment of uranium so that it is unable to use the material in nuclear weapons. In return, the US and EU will terminate all nuclear-related economic sanctions against Iran once the UN nuclear agency confirms that Iran has complied.Talks resumed earlier this week in Vienna to resolve the remaining issues concerning the final agreement, which was initially expected to be reached by the end of June. Diplomats have since said that the self-imposed deadline could be extended.\u201cIf our interlocutors commit to the agreed parameters, reaching an agreement by the end of June is achievable,\u201d said Najafi. ", "tags": ["Iran's nuclear programme", "Iran", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Switzerland", "Cyberwar", "Espionage", "Israel", "Europe", "Internet", "Technology", "Austria", "Malware"], "title": "Switzerland and Austria investigate claims of electronic spying at Iran talks"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:26:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Prosecutors in Switzerland and Austria have launched investigations into allegations that a computer virus was used to spy on the recent high-level Iran nuclear talks.It comes a day after a top Russia-based software security company, Kaspersky, said a spy virus dubbed Dugu 2.0 appeared to have compromised computer networks in at least three Swiss hotels that had been host to senior diplomats from Iran and the six major powers \u2013 the US, China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany \u2013 of the group known as the P5+1. The office of the Swiss attorney general announced on Thursday that police had last month raided unnamed locations in Geneva, where recent talks took place, and confiscated computer equipment and IT material. The allegations have surfaced at a critical moment in the ongoing nuclear talks ahead of an end of June deadline for a comprehensive agreement. An investigation was launched following those raids, federal Swiss prosecutors said, without mentioning which venues had been targeted. Swiss hotels that have hosted the negotiations in recent months include the Palais Wilson and Intercontinental in Geneva, the Beau Rivage in Lausanne and the Royal Plaza in Montreux.  \u201cThe aim of this raid was on one hand to gather evidence and to on the other verify if information systems had been infected by malware,\u201d the Swiss attorney general\u2019s office said, according to AFP. Austria, which also hosted the Iranian nuclear negotiations, confirmed on Thursday it was investigating separately as well. Vienna\u2019s Palais Coburg hotel has been a frequent venue for the ongoing talks. \u201cThe federal office for the protection of the constitution and counter-terrorism is aware of the information and is reviewing it,\u201d said a Vienna-based government spokesman. Related: Duqu 2.0: computer virus 'linked to Israel' found at Iran nuclear talks venue Although it is not clear who has carried out the recent cyberattacks, Dugu is related to Stuxnet, a computer worm believed to have been designed by Israel to sabotage Iran\u2019s uranium enrichment programme. Stuxnet hit Iran\u2019s nuclear facilities in 2010. Iranian authorities initially played down its impact but eventually admitted the malware had damaged the nuclear programme.Israel, which stands firmly opposed to a comprehensive deal with Iran and the lifting of sanctions as a result, has denied any links to the recent attacks. \u201cThe international reports of Israeli involvement in the matter are baseless,\u201d said Tzipi Hotovely, Israel\u2019s deputy foreign minister. \u201cWhat is much more important is that we prevent a bad agreement where at the end of the day we find ourselves with an Iranian nuclear umbrella.\u201dIn March, and in unusual comments for US administration officials, the Wall Street Journal cited senior American officials accusing Israel of spying on the nuclear talks and using the intelligence gathered to persuade sceptics in Congress to undermine the talks. Reza Najafi, Iran\u2019s ambassador to the Vienna-based UN nuclear agency, the IAEA, said the news about the cyberattack was not surprising to Iran. \u201cYou know that there are enemies of these talks and they will do whatever they can, so it\u2019s not a surprise to us,\u201d he said in reaction to the news. \u201cWe continue to take precautionary measures not to let any details of the discussion go to the public.\u201dKaspersky said in a statement published on its website on Wednesday that it believed the malware included \u201csome unique and earlier unseen features\u201d which made its creators feel confident no traces could be left. The carefully planned and sophisticated nature of the attacks led the security firm to believe that a nation state sponsored the campaign. \u201cKaspersky Lab researchers discovered the company wasn\u2019t the only target of this powerful threat actor. Other victims have been found in western countries, as well as in countries in the Middle East and Asia,\u201d the statement read. \u201cMost notably, some of the new 2014-2015 infections are linked to the P5+1 events and venues related to the negotiations with Iran about a nuclear deal. The threat actor behind Duqu appears to have launched attacks at the venues where the high-level talks took place.\u201d Symantec, a rival security company, has confirmed Kaspersky\u2019s findings.Iran and the west reached a tentative agreement on the framework of a comprehensive deal in April. Under its terms, restrictions will be placed on Iran\u2019s enrichment of uranium so that it is unable to use the material in nuclear weapons. In return, the US and EU will terminate all nuclear-related economic sanctions against Iran once the UN nuclear agency confirms that Iran has complied.Talks resumed earlier this week in Vienna to resolve the remaining issues concerning the final agreement, which was initially expected to be reached by the end of June. Diplomats have since said that the self-imposed deadline could be extended.\u201cIf our interlocutors commit to the agreed parameters, reaching an agreement by the end of June is achievable,\u201d said Najafi. ", "tags": ["Iran's nuclear programme", "Iran", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Switzerland", "Cyberwar", "Espionage", "Israel", "Europe", "Internet", "Technology", "Austria", "Malware"], "title": "Switzerland and Austria investigate claims of electronic spying at Iran talks"},{"date": "2015-05-26T15:31:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lord Falconer, the shadow lord chancellor, has said he would like to bring back his failed assisted dying bill after a British businessman travelled to the Swiss clinic Dignitas to end his life.Falconer, who served as the lord chancellor under Tony Blair, criticised the fact that Jeffrey Spector, 54, had to go abroad for help to end his life after learning his cancer had worsened. Assisted dying is illegal in Britain.The Labour peer told BBC\u2019s World at One: \u201cI saw the photographs of him having his last meal in Switzerland and I think it\u2019s completely wrong that when someone is terminally ill, they don\u2019t have the option, subject to safeguards, in deciding to take their own life. It\u2019s wrong they have to go to Switzerland to do that.\u201dFalconer said he would try to bring back his assisted dying bill if he wins a ballot for private members to put forward legislation in the House of Lords. The bill would enable people who had less than six months to live, as confirmed by two doctors, to be given a lethal prescription of drugs. It was discussed by peers in the last parliament but ran out of time for further debate before the election.Spector\u2019s widow, Elaine, 53, and three daughters, Keleigh, 21, Courtney, 19, and Camryn, 15, said that despite their \u201cdifficult and painful time\u201d, they respected his decision.Spector had told family and friends that as a proud, dignified and independent person he could not face the thought of being paralysed or becoming reliant on his family. His condition deteriorated to such an extent this year that he believed he would soon be completely paralysed. He made an appointment to go to the Dignitas clinic and travelled to Zurich last Wednesday. On Friday, after a final meal with his family, Spector died.His family said: \u201cWhile we are in a state of all-consuming grief and miss Jeffrey very much, we also recognise that he is now at peace and away from the fear which surrounded him in the last few weeks of his life. Jeffrey ended his life with dignity and control which was his overwhelming desire.\u201dHe is thought to be one of more than 270 British people who have travelled abroad to die. If Falconer is not picked for a private members\u2019 bill, it will be up to another peer or MP to try to introduce the legislation.He said: \u201cImmediately after the Queen\u2019s speech, there is a ballot in the House of Lords for private members\u2019 bills and if my bill is selected then I will bring it forward again. But if it\u2019s not selected, that will make [it] entirely chancy whether or not it\u2019s possible to pursue the bill in the Lords.\u201cIt\u2019s very odd that parliament may be deprived of the opportunity of debating this important issue. Whatever view you take about the issue, I think everybody agrees parliament should be debating it.\u201dThe government is unlikely to pursue the issue on its own as the prime minister has said he is \u201cnot convinced that further steps need to be taken\u201d. David Cameron has also expressed worries about \u201clegalising euthanasia and people might be being pushed into things that they don\u2019t actually want for themselves\u201d, but said he is happy to debate the subject in parliament.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Law", "Society", "House of Lords", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Labour peer plans to bring back assisted dying bill to House of Lords"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:26:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Prosecutors in Switzerland and Austria have launched investigations into allegations that a computer virus was used to spy on the recent high-level Iran nuclear talks.It comes a day after a top Russia-based software security company, Kaspersky, said a spy virus dubbed Dugu 2.0 appeared to have compromised computer networks in at least three Swiss hotels that had been host to senior diplomats from Iran and the six major powers \u2013 the US, China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany \u2013 of the group known as the P5+1. The office of the Swiss attorney general announced on Thursday that police had last month raided unnamed locations in Geneva, where recent talks took place, and confiscated computer equipment and IT material. The allegations have surfaced at a critical moment in the ongoing nuclear talks ahead of an end of June deadline for a comprehensive agreement. An investigation was launched following those raids, federal Swiss prosecutors said, without mentioning which venues had been targeted. Swiss hotels that have hosted the negotiations in recent months include the Palais Wilson and Intercontinental in Geneva, the Beau Rivage in Lausanne and the Royal Plaza in Montreux.  \u201cThe aim of this raid was on one hand to gather evidence and to on the other verify if information systems had been infected by malware,\u201d the Swiss attorney general\u2019s office said, according to AFP. Austria, which also hosted the Iranian nuclear negotiations, confirmed on Thursday it was investigating separately as well. Vienna\u2019s Palais Coburg hotel has been a frequent venue for the ongoing talks. \u201cThe federal office for the protection of the constitution and counter-terrorism is aware of the information and is reviewing it,\u201d said a Vienna-based government spokesman. Related: Duqu 2.0: computer virus 'linked to Israel' found at Iran nuclear talks venue Although it is not clear who has carried out the recent cyberattacks, Dugu is related to Stuxnet, a computer worm believed to have been designed by Israel to sabotage Iran\u2019s uranium enrichment programme. Stuxnet hit Iran\u2019s nuclear facilities in 2010. Iranian authorities initially played down its impact but eventually admitted the malware had damaged the nuclear programme.Israel, which stands firmly opposed to a comprehensive deal with Iran and the lifting of sanctions as a result, has denied any links to the recent attacks. \u201cThe international reports of Israeli involvement in the matter are baseless,\u201d said Tzipi Hotovely, Israel\u2019s deputy foreign minister. \u201cWhat is much more important is that we prevent a bad agreement where at the end of the day we find ourselves with an Iranian nuclear umbrella.\u201dIn March, and in unusual comments for US administration officials, the Wall Street Journal cited senior American officials accusing Israel of spying on the nuclear talks and using the intelligence gathered to persuade sceptics in Congress to undermine the talks. Reza Najafi, Iran\u2019s ambassador to the Vienna-based UN nuclear agency, the IAEA, said the news about the cyberattack was not surprising to Iran. \u201cYou know that there are enemies of these talks and they will do whatever they can, so it\u2019s not a surprise to us,\u201d he said in reaction to the news. \u201cWe continue to take precautionary measures not to let any details of the discussion go to the public.\u201dKaspersky said in a statement published on its website on Wednesday that it believed the malware included \u201csome unique and earlier unseen features\u201d which made its creators feel confident no traces could be left. The carefully planned and sophisticated nature of the attacks led the security firm to believe that a nation state sponsored the campaign. \u201cKaspersky Lab researchers discovered the company wasn\u2019t the only target of this powerful threat actor. Other victims have been found in western countries, as well as in countries in the Middle East and Asia,\u201d the statement read. \u201cMost notably, some of the new 2014-2015 infections are linked to the P5+1 events and venues related to the negotiations with Iran about a nuclear deal. The threat actor behind Duqu appears to have launched attacks at the venues where the high-level talks took place.\u201d Symantec, a rival security company, has confirmed Kaspersky\u2019s findings.Iran and the west reached a tentative agreement on the framework of a comprehensive deal in April. Under its terms, restrictions will be placed on Iran\u2019s enrichment of uranium so that it is unable to use the material in nuclear weapons. In return, the US and EU will terminate all nuclear-related economic sanctions against Iran once the UN nuclear agency confirms that Iran has complied.Talks resumed earlier this week in Vienna to resolve the remaining issues concerning the final agreement, which was initially expected to be reached by the end of June. Diplomats have since said that the self-imposed deadline could be extended.\u201cIf our interlocutors commit to the agreed parameters, reaching an agreement by the end of June is achievable,\u201d said Najafi. ", "tags": ["Iran's nuclear programme", "Iran", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Switzerland", "Cyberwar", "Espionage", "Israel", "Europe", "Internet", "Technology", "Austria", "Malware"], "title": "Switzerland and Austria investigate claims of electronic spying at Iran talks"},{"date": "2015-05-26T15:31:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lord Falconer, the shadow lord chancellor, has said he would like to bring back his failed assisted dying bill after a British businessman travelled to the Swiss clinic Dignitas to end his life.Falconer, who served as the lord chancellor under Tony Blair, criticised the fact that Jeffrey Spector, 54, had to go abroad for help to end his life after learning his cancer had worsened. Assisted dying is illegal in Britain.The Labour peer told BBC\u2019s World at One: \u201cI saw the photographs of him having his last meal in Switzerland and I think it\u2019s completely wrong that when someone is terminally ill, they don\u2019t have the option, subject to safeguards, in deciding to take their own life. It\u2019s wrong they have to go to Switzerland to do that.\u201dFalconer said he would try to bring back his assisted dying bill if he wins a ballot for private members to put forward legislation in the House of Lords. The bill would enable people who had less than six months to live, as confirmed by two doctors, to be given a lethal prescription of drugs. It was discussed by peers in the last parliament but ran out of time for further debate before the election.Spector\u2019s widow, Elaine, 53, and three daughters, Keleigh, 21, Courtney, 19, and Camryn, 15, said that despite their \u201cdifficult and painful time\u201d, they respected his decision.Spector had told family and friends that as a proud, dignified and independent person he could not face the thought of being paralysed or becoming reliant on his family. His condition deteriorated to such an extent this year that he believed he would soon be completely paralysed. He made an appointment to go to the Dignitas clinic and travelled to Zurich last Wednesday. On Friday, after a final meal with his family, Spector died.His family said: \u201cWhile we are in a state of all-consuming grief and miss Jeffrey very much, we also recognise that he is now at peace and away from the fear which surrounded him in the last few weeks of his life. Jeffrey ended his life with dignity and control which was his overwhelming desire.\u201dHe is thought to be one of more than 270 British people who have travelled abroad to die. If Falconer is not picked for a private members\u2019 bill, it will be up to another peer or MP to try to introduce the legislation.He said: \u201cImmediately after the Queen\u2019s speech, there is a ballot in the House of Lords for private members\u2019 bills and if my bill is selected then I will bring it forward again. But if it\u2019s not selected, that will make [it] entirely chancy whether or not it\u2019s possible to pursue the bill in the Lords.\u201cIt\u2019s very odd that parliament may be deprived of the opportunity of debating this important issue. Whatever view you take about the issue, I think everybody agrees parliament should be debating it.\u201dThe government is unlikely to pursue the issue on its own as the prime minister has said he is \u201cnot convinced that further steps need to be taken\u201d. David Cameron has also expressed worries about \u201clegalising euthanasia and people might be being pushed into things that they don\u2019t actually want for themselves\u201d, but said he is happy to debate the subject in parliament.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Law", "Society", "House of Lords", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Labour peer plans to bring back assisted dying bill to House of Lords"},{"date": "2015-04-02T17:18:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": " Related: Iran nuclear talks: 'framework' deal agreed - live updates Iranian and western officials claimed to have made a breakthrough in nuclear negotiations in Lausanne on Thursday night, and said they were drafting a joint statement.After eight days of talks, often going late into the night, the Iranian foreign minister Mohammed Javad Zarif tweeted: \u201cFound solutions. Ready to start drafting immediately.\u201d Found solutions. Ready to start drafting immediately.A few minutes earlier, the EU foreign policy chief Frederica Mogherini tweeted that she and Zarif would soon have \u201cgood news\u201d for the waiting press.Diplomats said that even as journalists were told to assemble at a technical institute in Lausanne, Iranian and western foreign ministers were still negotiating the text of an accord. The deal is intended to be a provisional framework for a comprehensive agreement that is not due to be signed until the end of June, but if it includes concrete facts and figures, it will mark a significant breakthrough in the 12-year history of negotiations with Iran over its nuclear programme. The Iranian delegation led by Zarif was said to be arguing for as few details as possible to be released, out of concern that anything published before a final agreement would become a hostage to fortune, a target for hardliners on both sides. The US secretary of state, John Kerry, requires as many specifics as possible, as he needs them to convince Congress not to impose new sanctions. European diplomats said that compromise would involve a secret annex containing agreed parameters.The negotiations were the 19th round of high-level talks in the 18 months since Zarif and US secretary of state John Kerry first met on the margins of the 2013 UN general assembly. Related: 'Bladder diplomacy' at Iran talks: other negotiations that tested leaders' stamina The talks \u2013 the culmination of a 12-year process \u2013 became hung up on the issues of Iran\u2019s nuclear centrifuge research, details on the lifting of UN sanctions, and how they would be re-imposed if Iran breached the agreement.Zarif, Kerry, the Germany foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, and Mogherini, held a night session on Wednesday in Lausanne\u2019s Beau-Rivage Palace hotel, lasting more than eight hours and ending at 6am on Thursday.The French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, joined the talks at midnight, and the UK foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, returned after a few hours\u2019 break.Foreign ministry political directors remained in the conference rooms even after the ministers had gone to bed, and the ministerial negotiations resumed just before 11am. The Bloomberg news agency quoted the diplomatic historian Alan Henrikson as saying that a US secretary of state had not stayed at a single site negotiating a single issue for such a long time since the 1978 Camp David negotiations with Egypt and Israel.It is almost 100 years since Washington\u2019s top diplomats spent so much time negotiating on foreign soil. The last time was the 1919 Versailles peace conference after the first world war, Henrikson said.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Iran nuclear deal: officials claim to reach historic 'framework' agreement"},{"date": "2015-06-11T15:26:36Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Prosecutors in Switzerland and Austria have launched investigations into allegations that a computer virus was used to spy on the recent high-level Iran nuclear talks.It comes a day after a top Russia-based software security company, Kaspersky, said a spy virus dubbed Dugu 2.0 appeared to have compromised computer networks in at least three Swiss hotels that had been host to senior diplomats from Iran and the six major powers \u2013 the US, China, Russia, Britain, France and Germany \u2013 of the group known as the P5+1. The office of the Swiss attorney general announced on Thursday that police had last month raided unnamed locations in Geneva, where recent talks took place, and confiscated computer equipment and IT material. The allegations have surfaced at a critical moment in the ongoing nuclear talks ahead of an end of June deadline for a comprehensive agreement. An investigation was launched following those raids, federal Swiss prosecutors said, without mentioning which venues had been targeted. Swiss hotels that have hosted the negotiations in recent months include the Palais Wilson and Intercontinental in Geneva, the Beau Rivage in Lausanne and the Royal Plaza in Montreux.  \u201cThe aim of this raid was on one hand to gather evidence and to on the other verify if information systems had been infected by malware,\u201d the Swiss attorney general\u2019s office said, according to AFP. Austria, which also hosted the Iranian nuclear negotiations, confirmed on Thursday it was investigating separately as well. Vienna\u2019s Palais Coburg hotel has been a frequent venue for the ongoing talks. \u201cThe federal office for the protection of the constitution and counter-terrorism is aware of the information and is reviewing it,\u201d said a Vienna-based government spokesman. Related: Duqu 2.0: computer virus 'linked to Israel' found at Iran nuclear talks venue Although it is not clear who has carried out the recent cyberattacks, Dugu is related to Stuxnet, a computer worm believed to have been designed by Israel to sabotage Iran\u2019s uranium enrichment programme. Stuxnet hit Iran\u2019s nuclear facilities in 2010. Iranian authorities initially played down its impact but eventually admitted the malware had damaged the nuclear programme.Israel, which stands firmly opposed to a comprehensive deal with Iran and the lifting of sanctions as a result, has denied any links to the recent attacks. \u201cThe international reports of Israeli involvement in the matter are baseless,\u201d said Tzipi Hotovely, Israel\u2019s deputy foreign minister. \u201cWhat is much more important is that we prevent a bad agreement where at the end of the day we find ourselves with an Iranian nuclear umbrella.\u201dIn March, and in unusual comments for US administration officials, the Wall Street Journal cited senior American officials accusing Israel of spying on the nuclear talks and using the intelligence gathered to persuade sceptics in Congress to undermine the talks. Reza Najafi, Iran\u2019s ambassador to the Vienna-based UN nuclear agency, the IAEA, said the news about the cyberattack was not surprising to Iran. \u201cYou know that there are enemies of these talks and they will do whatever they can, so it\u2019s not a surprise to us,\u201d he said in reaction to the news. \u201cWe continue to take precautionary measures not to let any details of the discussion go to the public.\u201dKaspersky said in a statement published on its website on Wednesday that it believed the malware included \u201csome unique and earlier unseen features\u201d which made its creators feel confident no traces could be left. The carefully planned and sophisticated nature of the attacks led the security firm to believe that a nation state sponsored the campaign. \u201cKaspersky Lab researchers discovered the company wasn\u2019t the only target of this powerful threat actor. Other victims have been found in western countries, as well as in countries in the Middle East and Asia,\u201d the statement read. \u201cMost notably, some of the new 2014-2015 infections are linked to the P5+1 events and venues related to the negotiations with Iran about a nuclear deal. The threat actor behind Duqu appears to have launched attacks at the venues where the high-level talks took place.\u201d Symantec, a rival security company, has confirmed Kaspersky\u2019s findings.Iran and the west reached a tentative agreement on the framework of a comprehensive deal in April. Under its terms, restrictions will be placed on Iran\u2019s enrichment of uranium so that it is unable to use the material in nuclear weapons. In return, the US and EU will terminate all nuclear-related economic sanctions against Iran once the UN nuclear agency confirms that Iran has complied.Talks resumed earlier this week in Vienna to resolve the remaining issues concerning the final agreement, which was initially expected to be reached by the end of June. Diplomats have since said that the self-imposed deadline could be extended.\u201cIf our interlocutors commit to the agreed parameters, reaching an agreement by the end of June is achievable,\u201d said Najafi. ", "tags": ["Iran's nuclear programme", "Iran", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Switzerland", "Cyberwar", "Espionage", "Israel", "Europe", "Internet", "Technology", "Austria", "Malware"], "title": "Switzerland and Austria investigate claims of electronic spying at Iran talks"},{"date": "2015-05-26T15:31:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Lord Falconer, the shadow lord chancellor, has said he would like to bring back his failed assisted dying bill after a British businessman travelled to the Swiss clinic Dignitas to end his life.Falconer, who served as the lord chancellor under Tony Blair, criticised the fact that Jeffrey Spector, 54, had to go abroad for help to end his life after learning his cancer had worsened. Assisted dying is illegal in Britain.The Labour peer told BBC\u2019s World at One: \u201cI saw the photographs of him having his last meal in Switzerland and I think it\u2019s completely wrong that when someone is terminally ill, they don\u2019t have the option, subject to safeguards, in deciding to take their own life. It\u2019s wrong they have to go to Switzerland to do that.\u201dFalconer said he would try to bring back his assisted dying bill if he wins a ballot for private members to put forward legislation in the House of Lords. The bill would enable people who had less than six months to live, as confirmed by two doctors, to be given a lethal prescription of drugs. It was discussed by peers in the last parliament but ran out of time for further debate before the election.Spector\u2019s widow, Elaine, 53, and three daughters, Keleigh, 21, Courtney, 19, and Camryn, 15, said that despite their \u201cdifficult and painful time\u201d, they respected his decision.Spector had told family and friends that as a proud, dignified and independent person he could not face the thought of being paralysed or becoming reliant on his family. His condition deteriorated to such an extent this year that he believed he would soon be completely paralysed. He made an appointment to go to the Dignitas clinic and travelled to Zurich last Wednesday. On Friday, after a final meal with his family, Spector died.His family said: \u201cWhile we are in a state of all-consuming grief and miss Jeffrey very much, we also recognise that he is now at peace and away from the fear which surrounded him in the last few weeks of his life. Jeffrey ended his life with dignity and control which was his overwhelming desire.\u201dHe is thought to be one of more than 270 British people who have travelled abroad to die. If Falconer is not picked for a private members\u2019 bill, it will be up to another peer or MP to try to introduce the legislation.He said: \u201cImmediately after the Queen\u2019s speech, there is a ballot in the House of Lords for private members\u2019 bills and if my bill is selected then I will bring it forward again. But if it\u2019s not selected, that will make [it] entirely chancy whether or not it\u2019s possible to pursue the bill in the Lords.\u201cIt\u2019s very odd that parliament may be deprived of the opportunity of debating this important issue. Whatever view you take about the issue, I think everybody agrees parliament should be debating it.\u201dThe government is unlikely to pursue the issue on its own as the prime minister has said he is \u201cnot convinced that further steps need to be taken\u201d. David Cameron has also expressed worries about \u201clegalising euthanasia and people might be being pushed into things that they don\u2019t actually want for themselves\u201d, but said he is happy to debate the subject in parliament.", "tags": ["Assisted dying", "Law", "Society", "House of Lords", "Politics", "UK news"], "title": "Labour peer plans to bring back assisted dying bill to House of Lords"},{"date": "2015-04-02T17:18:33Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": " Related: Iran nuclear talks: 'framework' deal agreed - live updates Iranian and western officials claimed to have made a breakthrough in nuclear negotiations in Lausanne on Thursday night, and said they were drafting a joint statement.After eight days of talks, often going late into the night, the Iranian foreign minister Mohammed Javad Zarif tweeted: \u201cFound solutions. Ready to start drafting immediately.\u201d Found solutions. Ready to start drafting immediately.A few minutes earlier, the EU foreign policy chief Frederica Mogherini tweeted that she and Zarif would soon have \u201cgood news\u201d for the waiting press.Diplomats said that even as journalists were told to assemble at a technical institute in Lausanne, Iranian and western foreign ministers were still negotiating the text of an accord. The deal is intended to be a provisional framework for a comprehensive agreement that is not due to be signed until the end of June, but if it includes concrete facts and figures, it will mark a significant breakthrough in the 12-year history of negotiations with Iran over its nuclear programme. The Iranian delegation led by Zarif was said to be arguing for as few details as possible to be released, out of concern that anything published before a final agreement would become a hostage to fortune, a target for hardliners on both sides. The US secretary of state, John Kerry, requires as many specifics as possible, as he needs them to convince Congress not to impose new sanctions. European diplomats said that compromise would involve a secret annex containing agreed parameters.The negotiations were the 19th round of high-level talks in the 18 months since Zarif and US secretary of state John Kerry first met on the margins of the 2013 UN general assembly. Related: 'Bladder diplomacy' at Iran talks: other negotiations that tested leaders' stamina The talks \u2013 the culmination of a 12-year process \u2013 became hung up on the issues of Iran\u2019s nuclear centrifuge research, details on the lifting of UN sanctions, and how they would be re-imposed if Iran breached the agreement.Zarif, Kerry, the Germany foreign minister Frank-Walter Steinmeier, and Mogherini, held a night session on Wednesday in Lausanne\u2019s Beau-Rivage Palace hotel, lasting more than eight hours and ending at 6am on Thursday.The French foreign minister, Laurent Fabius, joined the talks at midnight, and the UK foreign secretary, Philip Hammond, returned after a few hours\u2019 break.Foreign ministry political directors remained in the conference rooms even after the ministers had gone to bed, and the ministerial negotiations resumed just before 11am. The Bloomberg news agency quoted the diplomatic historian Alan Henrikson as saying that a US secretary of state had not stayed at a single site negotiating a single issue for such a long time since the 1978 Camp David negotiations with Egypt and Israel.It is almost 100 years since Washington\u2019s top diplomats spent so much time negotiating on foreign soil. The last time was the 1919 Versailles peace conference after the first world war, Henrikson said.", "tags": ["Iran", "Nuclear weapons", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "US news", "US foreign policy"], "title": "Iran nuclear deal: officials claim to reach historic 'framework' agreement"},{"date": "2015-06-26T08:36:22Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "1. In 2010 Paloma Faith turned up on the Pyramid stage with a pair of huge helium-filled blimps attached to her leotard. Hopefully, this year a third will be added, allowing Paloma to perform 50m above the crowd before being shot down with a crossbow during her final song for the ultimate festival stagedive moment. 2. The Cambodian Space Project have 1,087 friends on MySpace.3. Mark Ronson is expected to pull a crowd of several thousand, potentially outnumbering the number of people now credited with having written Uptown Funk.4. Mot\u00f6rhead stunner Lemmy was fired from Hawkwind for being caught with drugs, which is a bit like Florence getting her marching orders from the Machine for standing near a harp. 5. Florence herself has recently been performing live despite a seriously injured leg, which is more than can be said for a certain Foo Fighters frontman by the name of David Eric Grohl.6. At the start of this year, Olly from Years & Years declared that the band celebrated winning the BBC Sound of 2105 poll by having what he described as \u201ca circle wank\u201d. Precise details are mercifully scarce, but for health and safety reasons, if the band\u2019s set goes down well you\u2019d be well-advised to avoid the Stone Circle.7. Leftfield are not playing on the Left Field stage. 8. Lionel Richie is one of the world\u2019s most famous Lionels. Other notable Lionels include footballer Lionel Messi and high-haired former clue-giver Lionel Blair, neither of whom are appearing at Glastonbury. Earlier this week, Lionel Richie tweeted a picture of himself getting into the festival spirit, sitting near a tent and camping stove. 9. Deadmau5 and Kanye West are the only members of the notorious \u201cTidal 18\u201d to be appearing at this year\u2019s Glastonbury.10. Jamie XX and Charli XCX each boast a Scrabble score of 30 (excluding bonus squares, and assuming you could get a set with more than one X), but even combined, they are no match for King Gizzard and the Lizard Wizard, who notch up an impressive 81. Unlike Charli XCX, however, King Gizzard and the Lizard Wizard have not recorded hits with Icona Pop or Iggy Azalea, so think on.  Related: Glastonbury 2015: Friday daytime liveblog, and the music begins 11. Much to the chagrin of Reading & Leeds organisers, the Dalai Lama will be putting in an appearance at Glastonbury this weekend. His hobbies include meditating, which you\u2019d kind of take as read, as well as gardening and repairing watches. He\u2019ll be able to add \u201cqueueing for a portable toilet while holding some loo roll meaning that everyone knows you need a poo\u201d to that list by the end of Sunday. 12. Franz Ferdinand and Sparks\u2019 combo project FFS is the most high-profile supergroup on this year\u2019s bill, after McBusted were unable to confirm their proposed slot on Bez\u2019s Acid House stage. 13. At the time of writing Pharrell\u2019s Happy is at No 18 in Switzerland \u2013 down five places from last week. 14. In 2012, Mary J Blige was embroiled in a furore after appearing in a Burger King ad, in which the words to her song Don\u2019t Mind were altered to extol the virtues of a chicken wrap. Glastonbury-goers are advised to keep an ear out for her new version of No More Drama, which pays tribute to the wares on offer at the second hog-roast stand down from the right-hand side of the Pyramid stage. No not that one, the other one. The right-hand side as you\u2019re FACING the stage. Hello? I\u2019m waving my hands in the air! You\u2019re breaking up. HELLO? Look if you\u2019re not here in 10 minutes I\u2019ll see you back at the tent.15. Paul Weller is playing a solo set on the Pyramid stage, which is good news. Jam fans, meanwhile, might wish to keep their eyes out for something rather special happening elsewhere on the site over the course of the weekend. (Kate Moss will be flogging pots of conserve on-site, for \u00a330 a pop.)16. Mumford & Sons will sadly not be appearing at Glastonbury this year, but fans will be able to make do with one of their chums: Idris Elba, who directed and starred in their Lover of the Light video, will be on the Sonic stage on Saturday evening. 17. Ella Eyre is the only performer this year to be named after a line from Rihanna\u2019s Umbrella.18. Professor Stephen Hawking is due on site over the course of the weekend. He obtained a first in natural science from University College Oxford, holds numerous honorary degrees, was awarded the CBE in 1982, is a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and in America received the Presidential medal of freedom. Jessie Ware, who\u2019s also performing, has a degree in English literature from the University of Sussex.19. Hozier is due to play for 45 minutes on Sunday afternoon. Whichever way you look at it, that\u2019s an extremely long version of his song. 20. Grandmaster Flash was born on the exact day that the European Economic Community \u2013 quite literally more commonly known as the common market \u2013 started. Coincidence? You decide.21. Finally, Taylor Swift, who\u2019s performing in Hyde Park in London on Saturday night, is the final addition to this year\u2019s Glastonbury bill. She organised for the entire festival to be relocated to the other end of Hyde Park during the course of Saturday afternoon and to be pointed at her existing show, so she can headline Glastonbury as well as Hyde Park, after writing Emily Eavis a heartfelt letter on Tumblr. [1][1] This may not be strictly true.", "tags": ["Glastonbury 2015", "Music", "Glastonbury festival", "Festivals", "Music festivals", "Culture", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Glastonbury 2015: 20 facts you need to know about this year's artists"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:55:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has banned sales of Volkswagen diesel cars in the most severe step taken so far by a government in reaction to the emissions crisis.The country has stopped the sale of any VW cars in the Euro5 category, which contains the majority of the cars that the company has admitted have defeat devices.The move effects roughly 180,000 cars that are yet to be sold or registered, including 1.2-litre, 1.6-litre and 2.0-litre diesel engines for the VW, Audi, Seat and Skoda brands. However, the Swiss federal roads office, which announced the ban, said motorists who already own a VW diesel car will be allowed to continue driving.Countries around the world, including Germany, US, and the UK, have launched investigations into diesel emissions since the scandal emerged and more could now ban cars from their roads.VW has admitted that 11m vehicles, including 5m Volkswagen passenger cars, were fitted with defeat devices and set aside \u20ac6.5bn (\u00a34.8bn) to pay for the costs of the crisis. However, it also faces the prospect of fines of up to $18bn (\u00a311.8bn) from US regulators and one of the biggest legal claims in history from customers and shareholders around the world.VW owners\u2019 cars could face increases to their fuel bills of up to \u00a3100 a year if the Vehicle Certification Agency, the UK\u2019s emissions testing watchdog, demands modification to affected pollution control systems, The Times reports.Cars consume as much as 5% more fuel per mile if the systems are running correctly, meaning that owners of vehicles fitted with defeat devices have been using less diesel but at the same time breaking legal limits on air pollution.They may also have to pay higher taxes because higher fuel consumption could alter their cars\u2019 carbon dioxide rating.On Friday, a week after the US\u2019s Environmental Protection Agency first made allegations against VW, the company blamed the emissions scandal on a \u201csmall group\u201d of people and suspended a number of staff.VW made the comments at a press conference to unveil Matthias M\u00fcller as its new chief executive, replacing Martin Winterkorn, who resigned on Wednesday in response to the scandal.The new VW boss did not reveal how many staff had been suspended or who they were, but the company said the scandal was the result of \u201cunlawful behaviour of engineers and technicians involved in engine development\u201d.Berthold Huber, the acting head of VW\u2019s supervisory board, called the crisis a \u201cmoral and policy disaster\u201d. The carmaker has called an extraordinary shareholder meeting for 9 November.\u201cThe supervisory board has, on the basis of current information, recommended suspending some employees immediately until the whole case is cleared up,\u201d Huber said. \u201cThis has in part already happened.\u201cThe test manipulations are a moral and political disaster for Volkswagen. The unlawful behaviour of engineers and technicians involved in engine development shocked Volkswagen just as much as it shocked the public. We can only apologise and ask our customers, the public, the authorities and our investors to give us a chance to make amends.\u201dThe German government has said that 2.8m of the 11m cars installed with the defeat device were sold in Germany and that commercial vehicles were also involved. Documents have also emerged that showed EU offices knew two years ago that devices could skew emissions tests, and the US\u2019s Environmental Protection Agency warned that it would step up its emissions test against all carmakers and that VW faced \u201cmassive fines\u201d.In addition, Bloomberg reported that key parts of the faked emissions tests had been overseen by VW executives based in the company\u2019s headquarters in Wolfsburg.", "tags": ["Volkswagen (VW)", "Pollution", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Environment", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Volkswagen emissions scandal: Switzerland bans sale of some models"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:55:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has banned sales of Volkswagen diesel cars in the most severe step taken so far by a government in reaction to the emissions crisis.The country has stopped the sale of any VW cars in the Euro5 category, which contains the majority of the cars that the company has admitted have defeat devices.The move effects roughly 180,000 cars that are yet to be sold or registered, including 1.2-litre, 1.6-litre and 2.0-litre diesel engines for the VW, Audi, Seat and Skoda brands. However, the Swiss federal roads office, which announced the ban, said motorists who already own a VW diesel car will be allowed to continue driving.Countries around the world, including Germany, US, and the UK, have launched investigations into diesel emissions since the scandal emerged and more could now ban cars from their roads.VW has admitted that 11m vehicles, including 5m Volkswagen passenger cars, were fitted with defeat devices and set aside \u20ac6.5bn (\u00a34.8bn) to pay for the costs of the crisis. However, it also faces the prospect of fines of up to $18bn (\u00a311.8bn) from US regulators and one of the biggest legal claims in history from customers and shareholders around the world.VW owners\u2019 cars could face increases to their fuel bills of up to \u00a3100 a year if the Vehicle Certification Agency, the UK\u2019s emissions testing watchdog, demands modification to affected pollution control systems, The Times reports.Cars consume as much as 5% more fuel per mile if the systems are running correctly, meaning that owners of vehicles fitted with defeat devices have been using less diesel but at the same time breaking legal limits on air pollution.They may also have to pay higher taxes because higher fuel consumption could alter their cars\u2019 carbon dioxide rating.On Friday, a week after the US\u2019s Environmental Protection Agency first made allegations against VW, the company blamed the emissions scandal on a \u201csmall group\u201d of people and suspended a number of staff.VW made the comments at a press conference to unveil Matthias M\u00fcller as its new chief executive, replacing Martin Winterkorn, who resigned on Wednesday in response to the scandal.The new VW boss did not reveal how many staff had been suspended or who they were, but the company said the scandal was the result of \u201cunlawful behaviour of engineers and technicians involved in engine development\u201d.Berthold Huber, the acting head of VW\u2019s supervisory board, called the crisis a \u201cmoral and policy disaster\u201d. The carmaker has called an extraordinary shareholder meeting for 9 November.\u201cThe supervisory board has, on the basis of current information, recommended suspending some employees immediately until the whole case is cleared up,\u201d Huber said. \u201cThis has in part already happened.\u201cThe test manipulations are a moral and political disaster for Volkswagen. The unlawful behaviour of engineers and technicians involved in engine development shocked Volkswagen just as much as it shocked the public. We can only apologise and ask our customers, the public, the authorities and our investors to give us a chance to make amends.\u201dThe German government has said that 2.8m of the 11m cars installed with the defeat device were sold in Germany and that commercial vehicles were also involved. Documents have also emerged that showed EU offices knew two years ago that devices could skew emissions tests, and the US\u2019s Environmental Protection Agency warned that it would step up its emissions test against all carmakers and that VW faced \u201cmassive fines\u201d.In addition, Bloomberg reported that key parts of the faked emissions tests had been overseen by VW executives based in the company\u2019s headquarters in Wolfsburg.", "tags": ["Volkswagen (VW)", "Pollution", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Environment", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Volkswagen emissions scandal: Switzerland bans sale of some models"},{"date": "2015-09-09T06:30:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At first glance, the headline figures from this year\u2019s Global AgeWatch Index, which ranks the quality of life of older people in 96 countries, tell a familiar story. The top 10 countries, headed by Switzerland, are in western Europe, North America (Canada,\u00a05, and the US,\u00a09) and Japan (8). They show us that when governments invest in their ageing populations, society as a whole gains.Countries performing best in the index have policies that support older people\u2019s wellbeing and autonomy. Nordic countries, for example, have universal pensions, flexible employment opportunities, lifelong learning and effective healthcare. This approach is not unique to high-income countries, as shown by Chile\u00a0(21), Argentina (31) and Mauritius\u00a0(42). In the Czech Republic (22), Latvia\u00a0(35) and Estonia (23), governments have invested in training and education for older people to encourage greater workforce participation. This proves that recognising and addressing ageing translates into improved quality of life for older people. Related: Which are the best countries in the world to grow old in? Our third Global AgeWatch Index is launched in the same month as the UN and its member states commit to new global development goals. It serves as a reminder of what needs to be done if these goals are to meet their ambition to \u201cleave no one behind\u201d.People are living longer in all parts of the globe, especially in developing countries. There are currently around 901 million people aged 60 or over worldwide, representing 12.3% of the global population. By 2030, this will have increased to 1.4 billion or 16.5% of the global population. The index shines a light on this unprecedented demographic change and the need for policymakers to respond.The sustainable development goals (SDGs) offer a key opportunity for governments to plan ahead and prepare for ageing populations. A commitment to tackling inequality is increasingly important where ageing is concerned.A lifetime of gender discrimination combined with inequality in old age can have a devastating effect on older womenThe Index highlights that the gap between the top- and bottom-ranking countries is growing. Differences in life expectancy are one reflection of this, with the gap increasing from 5.7 to 7.3 years over the past 20 years. Over the same period inequality in older people\u2019s educational attainment has increased by half between the top and bottom 10 countries. With the improvements in health, income and education over the same period, we would have hoped to see this trend reversed.Women are at higher risk of poverty in later life than men. The combination of a lifetime of gender discrimination and inequality in old age can have a devastating effect on older women. Discriminatory laws and social norms towards widows, for example, can seriously disadvantage women\u2019s access to resources, especially in low-income countries. The contributions that older women make to their families and communities, including caring responsibilities, all too often go unnoticed or unmeasured.In these times of rapid population ageing and global demographic change, we need to make sure that older people, their rights and needs, are fully included as the SDGs are put into action.They need to work for people such as Justina Vanguera, 68, from Buenaventura, Colombia (36 in the Index). \u201cI left after my fifth year at primary school but once my children grew up, I studied for my baccalaureate and graduated at 58. There\u2019s no support for older people. I don\u2019t have a pension. I earn a living by making and mending clothes. I have to keep working. I do not think that age is an impediment. What holds me back is lack of money.\u201dWe want the enormous contribution of older people to their families and communities to be fully recognised and to see governments commit to addressing the rights and needs of older people now and into the future.", "tags": ["Older people", "Equality", "Society", "Sustainable development goals", "Global development"], "title": "It\u2019s official \u2013 Switzerland is the best place to grow old | Chris Roles"},{"date": "2015-09-26T10:55:03Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has banned sales of Volkswagen diesel cars in the most severe step taken so far by a government in reaction to the emissions crisis.The country has stopped the sale of any VW cars in the Euro5 category, which contains the majority of the cars that the company has admitted have defeat devices.The move effects roughly 180,000 cars that are yet to be sold or registered, including 1.2-litre, 1.6-litre and 2.0-litre diesel engines for the VW, Audi, Seat and Skoda brands. However, the Swiss federal roads office, which announced the ban, said motorists who already own a VW diesel car will be allowed to continue driving.Countries around the world, including Germany, US, and the UK, have launched investigations into diesel emissions since the scandal emerged and more could now ban cars from their roads.VW has admitted that 11m vehicles, including 5m Volkswagen passenger cars, were fitted with defeat devices and set aside \u20ac6.5bn (\u00a34.8bn) to pay for the costs of the crisis. However, it also faces the prospect of fines of up to $18bn (\u00a311.8bn) from US regulators and one of the biggest legal claims in history from customers and shareholders around the world.VW owners\u2019 cars could face increases to their fuel bills of up to \u00a3100 a year if the Vehicle Certification Agency, the UK\u2019s emissions testing watchdog, demands modification to affected pollution control systems, The Times reports.Cars consume as much as 5% more fuel per mile if the systems are running correctly, meaning that owners of vehicles fitted with defeat devices have been using less diesel but at the same time breaking legal limits on air pollution.They may also have to pay higher taxes because higher fuel consumption could alter their cars\u2019 carbon dioxide rating.On Friday, a week after the US\u2019s Environmental Protection Agency first made allegations against VW, the company blamed the emissions scandal on a \u201csmall group\u201d of people and suspended a number of staff.VW made the comments at a press conference to unveil Matthias M\u00fcller as its new chief executive, replacing Martin Winterkorn, who resigned on Wednesday in response to the scandal.The new VW boss did not reveal how many staff had been suspended or who they were, but the company said the scandal was the result of \u201cunlawful behaviour of engineers and technicians involved in engine development\u201d.Berthold Huber, the acting head of VW\u2019s supervisory board, called the crisis a \u201cmoral and policy disaster\u201d. The carmaker has called an extraordinary shareholder meeting for 9 November.\u201cThe supervisory board has, on the basis of current information, recommended suspending some employees immediately until the whole case is cleared up,\u201d Huber said. \u201cThis has in part already happened.\u201cThe test manipulations are a moral and political disaster for Volkswagen. The unlawful behaviour of engineers and technicians involved in engine development shocked Volkswagen just as much as it shocked the public. We can only apologise and ask our customers, the public, the authorities and our investors to give us a chance to make amends.\u201dThe German government has said that 2.8m of the 11m cars installed with the defeat device were sold in Germany and that commercial vehicles were also involved. Documents have also emerged that showed EU offices knew two years ago that devices could skew emissions tests, and the US\u2019s Environmental Protection Agency warned that it would step up its emissions test against all carmakers and that VW faced \u201cmassive fines\u201d.In addition, Bloomberg reported that key parts of the faked emissions tests had been overseen by VW executives based in the company\u2019s headquarters in Wolfsburg.", "tags": ["Volkswagen (VW)", "Pollution", "Automotive industry", "Business", "Environment", "Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Volkswagen emissions scandal: Switzerland bans sale of some models"},{"date": "2015-09-09T06:30:02Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "At first glance, the headline figures from this year\u2019s Global AgeWatch Index, which ranks the quality of life of older people in 96 countries, tell a familiar story. The top 10 countries, headed by Switzerland, are in western Europe, North America (Canada,\u00a05, and the US,\u00a09) and Japan (8). They show us that when governments invest in their ageing populations, society as a whole gains.Countries performing best in the index have policies that support older people\u2019s wellbeing and autonomy. Nordic countries, for example, have universal pensions, flexible employment opportunities, lifelong learning and effective healthcare. This approach is not unique to high-income countries, as shown by Chile\u00a0(21), Argentina (31) and Mauritius\u00a0(42). In the Czech Republic (22), Latvia\u00a0(35) and Estonia (23), governments have invested in training and education for older people to encourage greater workforce participation. This proves that recognising and addressing ageing translates into improved quality of life for older people. Related: Which are the best countries in the world to grow old in? Our third Global AgeWatch Index is launched in the same month as the UN and its member states commit to new global development goals. It serves as a reminder of what needs to be done if these goals are to meet their ambition to \u201cleave no one behind\u201d.People are living longer in all parts of the globe, especially in developing countries. There are currently around 901 million people aged 60 or over worldwide, representing 12.3% of the global population. By 2030, this will have increased to 1.4 billion or 16.5% of the global population. The index shines a light on this unprecedented demographic change and the need for policymakers to respond.The sustainable development goals (SDGs) offer a key opportunity for governments to plan ahead and prepare for ageing populations. A commitment to tackling inequality is increasingly important where ageing is concerned.A lifetime of gender discrimination combined with inequality in old age can have a devastating effect on older womenThe Index highlights that the gap between the top- and bottom-ranking countries is growing. Differences in life expectancy are one reflection of this, with the gap increasing from 5.7 to 7.3 years over the past 20 years. Over the same period inequality in older people\u2019s educational attainment has increased by half between the top and bottom 10 countries. With the improvements in health, income and education over the same period, we would have hoped to see this trend reversed.Women are at higher risk of poverty in later life than men. The combination of a lifetime of gender discrimination and inequality in old age can have a devastating effect on older women. Discriminatory laws and social norms towards widows, for example, can seriously disadvantage women\u2019s access to resources, especially in low-income countries. The contributions that older women make to their families and communities, including caring responsibilities, all too often go unnoticed or unmeasured.In these times of rapid population ageing and global demographic change, we need to make sure that older people, their rights and needs, are fully included as the SDGs are put into action.They need to work for people such as Justina Vanguera, 68, from Buenaventura, Colombia (36 in the Index). \u201cI left after my fifth year at primary school but once my children grew up, I studied for my baccalaureate and graduated at 58. There\u2019s no support for older people. I don\u2019t have a pension. I earn a living by making and mending clothes. I have to keep working. I do not think that age is an impediment. What holds me back is lack of money.\u201dWe want the enormous contribution of older people to their families and communities to be fully recognised and to see governments commit to addressing the rights and needs of older people now and into the future.", "tags": ["Older people", "Equality", "Society", "Sustainable development goals", "Global development"], "title": "It\u2019s official \u2013 Switzerland is the best place to grow old | Chris Roles"},{"date": "2015-08-07T03:36:11Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": " Related: Bread, coffee and wine are the toast of the Melbourne food and wine festival Richmond, the former centre of Melbourne\u2019s rag trade, filled with old warehouses and tiny workers cottages, wasn\u2019t always a dining destination. Good eating in Richmond tended to be thin on the ground with the exception of a few stalwarts like legendary gastro pub The Grand. But a swathe of new apartments, led by the redevelopment of the former Dimmey\u2019s building, are bringing a new generation of diners to Richmond.The discount clothes stores are shutting up shop and moving to suburban factory outlets making space for a culinary reinvention. For restaurant owners, rents are cheaper than the CBD while the suburb is still close to the city and well served by public transport. It helps that Richmond has always been the Switzerland of Melbourne. Those who live south side and refuse to travel too far north to eat will happily head to a restaurant in what is considered Melbourne\u2019s neutral territory. If you\u2019re north of the river Richmond isn\u2019t too far by fixie. Here are the five top new restaurants that are part of Richmond\u2019s restaurant renaissance.Japanophiles in Melbourne are smitten with the unassuming Minamishima which opened late last year. In the small and minimalist dining room you can order the omakase (chef\u2019s choice) of chef and owner Koichi Minamishima. It doesn\u2019t come cheaply at $150 a head for the 15 course menu but it\u2019s worth it \u2013 particularly when you\u2019re eating one of the world\u2019s more unusual looking shell fishes, the geoduck and delectably fatty aburi otoro. It\u2019s all about the quality of the seafood and the skilled knife work of Minamishima. The best seats are at the bar where you can watch Minamishima\u2019s brilliance up close and personal. Minamishima, 4 Lord Street, RichmondFusion food can be a dirty word but not in the hands of owner-chef Thi Le who\u2019s serving up modern Asian Australian food at this Bridge Road restaurant. Le has a storied pedigree having worked at Cumulus and The Town Mouse and she\u2019s hit the ground running at her first solo venture. Le\u2019s food is fun and adventurous. Her Vietnamese-style blood pudding has already achieved the status of a cult dish with critics raving about the dense meaty treat which comes wrapped in cosberg lettuce and laced with pickled ginger and fresh herbs. Anchovy, 338 Bridge Rd, RichmondChef and owner Ryan Flaherty is putting the mod back into Oz at Mister Jennings. Named after his favourite children\u2019s author (Paul Jennings), Mister Jennings showcases Flaherty\u2019s serious cooking skills honed via stints at The Fat Duck and more recently as the former co-owner of the Estelle. Flaherty\u2019s food is experimental and brave but not fussy. Case in point is Mister Jenning\u2019s signature frozen kangaroo. It\u2019s made of spiced icy shavings of kangaroo that melt in your mouth changing temperature and texture at the same time. The roo is teamed with a wasabi and avocado puree for added kick and a glistening veal and red wine jelly. It\u2019s a little like eating a science experiment, but a tasty one. Mister Jennings, 142 Bridge Road, RichmondSerial restauranteur Chris Lucas has an uncanny ability to know exactly what\u2019s on trend and Kong ticks all the boxes. Kong is loud and constantly packed but still manages to serve up damn tasty Korean BBQ. Go for the kimchi which chef Benjamin Cooper makes in huge vats which ferment away for a year. You\u2019ll also want to try the spicy pork belly enveloped in soft doughy buns with some slivers of pickled cucumber and a dousing of chilli. It\u2019s no bookings so get in early or be prepared to wait.Kong, 599 Church Street, CremorneThe newest addition to Richmond\u2019s dining scene is a bistro from the team behind CBD veteran Punch Lane. The name plays homage to the patron saint of wine but there\u2019s also beer on tap and a neat list of cocktails on offer. The food here is designed to go well with drinking. Think pork trotter croquettes with a crisp exterior, oozing as you bite into them and a classic Wagyu bavette. Saint Urban, 213 Swan Street, Richmond", "tags": ["Life and style", "Melbourne holidays", "Australia holidays", "Australia travel blog"], "title": "Five top new places to eat in Richmond, the 'Switzerland of Melbourne'"},{"date": "2015-10-10T06:00:13Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The bombshell came as our small group sat in the warmth of the Bendolla mountain restaurant, finishing our coffees, fiddling with our avalanche transceivers and half-listening to a briefing by our backcountry guide for the morning, Brit Nick Parks. \u201cAnd then,\u201d he said, \u201cwe just abseil down into the top of the run.\u201d Hang on! What? I\u2019d heard of people doing this in super gnarly resorts like La Grave, macho beardy ski-mountaineers usually, who eat icicles for breakfast. Was I really going to have to dangle on a rope like Sly in the Cliffhanger poster, snowboard between my teeth?Seemed like it. Two hours later our small group was huddled on a snowy crest, taking turns to drink little cups of hot herbal tea from Nick\u2019s flask to recover from our hard hike from the limits of the lift network. We\u2019d climbed to a col below the Becs de Bosson peak, and up through deep powder along a ridge to the top of the steep S-shaped couloir that was our target descent. Many times that week I\u2019d stared up at the S from the village below \u2013 a streak of white carved into the cliffs like an initial in a tree trunk. Such a simple, emblematic, irresistible line, now ours for the taking.Nick secured a rope, and chucked it down over the edge. Two skiers tackled it first, their ski boots scraping over the rocks. I took tight hold of the rope, gulped down my fears and \u2013 grateful for rubbery snowboard boots \u2013 rappelled over the edge.Then, after a few tight, tense turns down the icy gulley, we were rolling, gliding, floating, flying, enjoying wildly thrilling seconds, impossible to hold on to. Too soon we were back at the pistes, shaking hands and waving goodbye, going our separate ways but still high on adrenaline.In the Sly-macho version of this story I would next have dug an ice-hole, rolled naked in snow, downed 15 beers then gone paraskiing. In fact, this was my first trip with a six-month-old baby, so I raced back to our apartment to relieve her grandparents and, 30 minutes after the abseil, was slumped on a sofa breastfeeding, still wearing my avalanche gear and helmet.The baby\u2019s arrival had meant new powder-hunting priorities for my boyfriend and me. No more Japan and Utah \u2013 we needed a small, pretty, grandparent-friendly resort with enough easy runs for them, but satisfying steep off-piste terrain for us. Grimentz, in Switzerland\u2019s Val d\u2019Anniviers, ticked all the boxes. This hallowed backcountry wonderland is an insiders\u2019 resort, where a scattering of serious skiers like Nick, who has skied the world, have decided to settle.The S couloir was my hardest-won line, but I had in fact been riding deep powder all week \u2013 with much less effort \u2013 thanks to a 3.5km cable car, added in 2013, connecting Grimentz to Zinal. The vast rolling region in between these two resorts offers lots of off-piste kicks, but reaching them used to involve catching a bus round to Zinal and riding several slow lifts up. The fast new connection meant we could lap this incredible section several times a day, and we often had even this low-hanging fruit \u2013 powder easily accessed from a fast lift \u2013 to ourselves. On each new lap we rarely saw any other fresh lines \u2013 unheard of in major resorts, where they\u2019d be crowded and destroyed in minutes.On a longer expedition one day, we rode over rolling flanks from the Corne de Sorebois beside the Moiry glacier to the Moiry dam \u2013 where it was possible to ski a steep line right against the dam wall then out along a long shallow valley beside a bubbling stream, ending at Grimentz village.Crowded with mazots (former storage huts) and ancient chalets (some built in the 12th century) burnt black by decades of sun, Grimentz has a gorgeous, peaceful centre, with a sweet church and wooden waterways.Our big night out was to the Bourgeoisie, a council meeting place in a chalet built in 1550. We endured an hour-long Grimentz history lecture in French to be led down to the cellar afterwards for five or six free glasses of delicious, sherry-like wine poured straight from giant barrels by the convivial host. \u201cYou\u2019re not just tasting wine \u2013 you\u2019re tasting history,\u201d he said, as he passed round vintages from 1969, and samples of vin du glacier, the local speciality, an 1886 wine whose barrel has been topped up every year since.There may have been little apr\u00e8s ski, but beers in the sunshine at the resort\u2019s few bars, like Chez Floriaz by the slopes, walks and runs along hiking paths leading out into woodlands, and the odd meal out were all we needed.And everywhere I went I could look up at that bright white S, where I\u2019d carved my own mark in the snow.\u2022 Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com), which has returns Heathrow-Geneva from \u00a3108 including baggage and skis. A Swiss Travel Pass was provided by (MySwitzerland.com). The journalist paid for an apartment at Pradamont 07 in Grimentz (chalet.myswitzerland.com). Nick Parks charges \u00a3240 for a half-day for six people: backcountryadventures.co.uk ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Switzerland holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Alps holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Powder on the doorstep in Grimentz, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-10-10T06:00:13Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The bombshell came as our small group sat in the warmth of the Bendolla mountain restaurant, finishing our coffees, fiddling with our avalanche transceivers and half-listening to a briefing by our backcountry guide for the morning, Brit Nick Parks. \u201cAnd then,\u201d he said, \u201cwe just abseil down into the top of the run.\u201d Hang on! What? I\u2019d heard of people doing this in super gnarly resorts like La Grave, macho beardy ski-mountaineers usually, who eat icicles for breakfast. Was I really going to have to dangle on a rope like Sly in the Cliffhanger poster, snowboard between my teeth?Seemed like it. Two hours later our small group was huddled on a snowy crest, taking turns to drink little cups of hot herbal tea from Nick\u2019s flask to recover from our hard hike from the limits of the lift network. We\u2019d climbed to a col below the Becs de Bosson peak, and up through deep powder along a ridge to the top of the steep S-shaped couloir that was our target descent. Many times that week I\u2019d stared up at the S from the village below \u2013 a streak of white carved into the cliffs like an initial in a tree trunk. Such a simple, emblematic, irresistible line, now ours for the taking.Nick secured a rope, and chucked it down over the edge. Two skiers tackled it first, their ski boots scraping over the rocks. I took tight hold of the rope, gulped down my fears and \u2013 grateful for rubbery snowboard boots \u2013 rappelled over the edge.Then, after a few tight, tense turns down the icy gulley, we were rolling, gliding, floating, flying, enjoying wildly thrilling seconds, impossible to hold on to. Too soon we were back at the pistes, shaking hands and waving goodbye, going our separate ways but still high on adrenaline.In the Sly-macho version of this story I would next have dug an ice-hole, rolled naked in snow, downed 15 beers then gone paraskiing. In fact, this was my first trip with a six-month-old baby, so I raced back to our apartment to relieve her grandparents and, 30 minutes after the abseil, was slumped on a sofa breastfeeding, still wearing my avalanche gear and helmet.The baby\u2019s arrival had meant new powder-hunting priorities for my boyfriend and me. No more Japan and Utah \u2013 we needed a small, pretty, grandparent-friendly resort with enough easy runs for them, but satisfying steep off-piste terrain for us. Grimentz, in Switzerland\u2019s Val d\u2019Anniviers, ticked all the boxes. This hallowed backcountry wonderland is an insiders\u2019 resort, where a scattering of serious skiers like Nick, who has skied the world, have decided to settle.The S couloir was my hardest-won line, but I had in fact been riding deep powder all week \u2013 with much less effort \u2013 thanks to a 3.5km cable car, added in 2013, connecting Grimentz to Zinal. The vast rolling region in between these two resorts offers lots of off-piste kicks, but reaching them used to involve catching a bus round to Zinal and riding several slow lifts up. The fast new connection meant we could lap this incredible section several times a day, and we often had even this low-hanging fruit \u2013 powder easily accessed from a fast lift \u2013 to ourselves. On each new lap we rarely saw any other fresh lines \u2013 unheard of in major resorts, where they\u2019d be crowded and destroyed in minutes.On a longer expedition one day, we rode over rolling flanks from the Corne de Sorebois beside the Moiry glacier to the Moiry dam \u2013 where it was possible to ski a steep line right against the dam wall then out along a long shallow valley beside a bubbling stream, ending at Grimentz village.Crowded with mazots (former storage huts) and ancient chalets (some built in the 12th century) burnt black by decades of sun, Grimentz has a gorgeous, peaceful centre, with a sweet church and wooden waterways.Our big night out was to the Bourgeoisie, a council meeting place in a chalet built in 1550. We endured an hour-long Grimentz history lecture in French to be led down to the cellar afterwards for five or six free glasses of delicious, sherry-like wine poured straight from giant barrels by the convivial host. \u201cYou\u2019re not just tasting wine \u2013 you\u2019re tasting history,\u201d he said, as he passed round vintages from 1969, and samples of vin du glacier, the local speciality, an 1886 wine whose barrel has been topped up every year since.There may have been little apr\u00e8s ski, but beers in the sunshine at the resort\u2019s few bars, like Chez Floriaz by the slopes, walks and runs along hiking paths leading out into woodlands, and the odd meal out were all we needed.And everywhere I went I could look up at that bright white S, where I\u2019d carved my own mark in the snow.\u2022 Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com), which has returns Heathrow-Geneva from \u00a3108 including baggage and skis. A Swiss Travel Pass was provided by (MySwitzerland.com). The journalist paid for an apartment at Pradamont 07 in Grimentz (chalet.myswitzerland.com). Nick Parks charges \u00a3240 for a half-day for six people: backcountryadventures.co.uk ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Switzerland holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Alps holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Powder on the doorstep in Grimentz, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-12-29T06:15:06Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has experienced its warmest December since the country that founded winter tourism began keeping records 150 years ago. Clear skies and dry ground have seen the Alpine nation end the year 3.4C above the long-term historical average for December, a climatologist for the federal office of meteorology and climatology (MeteoSwiss) said on Monday. Related: UK floods and extreme global weather linked to El Ni\u00f1o and climate change  \u201cThere\u2019s no doubt about it,\u201d Stephan Bader said. \u201cIt\u2019s the warmest December in our recorded measurements dating back to 1864 \u2013 clearly. And it\u2019s especially pronounced at higher altitudes.\u201d The dry warmth and slopes bereft of snow have hurt resort owners and ski lift operators, who are already contending with Switzerland\u2019s strong currency discouraging foreign visitors. MeteoSwiss earlier this month said it expected 2015 to break the annual record for the third time in just a handful of years. Globally, this year will be the warmest on record and 2016 could be even warmer due to the El Ni\u00f1o weather pattern, the World Meteorological Organization said last month. It warned that inaction on climate change could see global average temperatures rise by 6C or more.It came as climate scientists in France said that this year\u2019s El\u00a0Ni\u00f1o was the strongest ever measured,\u00a0surpassing the one in 1997-98, both in terms of ocean surface temperature \u2013 up by more than 3C (5.4F) - and the surface area affected.\u201cIt is probably the most powerful in the last 100 years,\u201d said Jerome Lecou, a climate expert at the French weather service Meteo France, noting that accurate measurements have only existed since the mid-20th century.As was true in 1998, this year\u2019s super El Nino will have contributed to making 2015 the warmest on record, worldwide.But the reverse may also be true, with climate change boosting the power of cyclical El Nino events.\u201cIf you add the background global warming to natural weather phenomena, there\u2019s a tendency to break records left and right,\u201d Le Treut told AFP.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Climate change", "Environment", "Europe", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "El Ni\u00f1o southern oscillation"], "title": "Switzerland has warmest December ever as average temperatures rise 3.4C"},{"date": "2015-10-10T06:00:13Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The bombshell came as our small group sat in the warmth of the Bendolla mountain restaurant, finishing our coffees, fiddling with our avalanche transceivers and half-listening to a briefing by our backcountry guide for the morning, Brit Nick Parks. \u201cAnd then,\u201d he said, \u201cwe just abseil down into the top of the run.\u201d Hang on! What? I\u2019d heard of people doing this in super gnarly resorts like La Grave, macho beardy ski-mountaineers usually, who eat icicles for breakfast. Was I really going to have to dangle on a rope like Sly in the Cliffhanger poster, snowboard between my teeth?Seemed like it. Two hours later our small group was huddled on a snowy crest, taking turns to drink little cups of hot herbal tea from Nick\u2019s flask to recover from our hard hike from the limits of the lift network. We\u2019d climbed to a col below the Becs de Bosson peak, and up through deep powder along a ridge to the top of the steep S-shaped couloir that was our target descent. Many times that week I\u2019d stared up at the S from the village below \u2013 a streak of white carved into the cliffs like an initial in a tree trunk. Such a simple, emblematic, irresistible line, now ours for the taking.Nick secured a rope, and chucked it down over the edge. Two skiers tackled it first, their ski boots scraping over the rocks. I took tight hold of the rope, gulped down my fears and \u2013 grateful for rubbery snowboard boots \u2013 rappelled over the edge.Then, after a few tight, tense turns down the icy gulley, we were rolling, gliding, floating, flying, enjoying wildly thrilling seconds, impossible to hold on to. Too soon we were back at the pistes, shaking hands and waving goodbye, going our separate ways but still high on adrenaline.In the Sly-macho version of this story I would next have dug an ice-hole, rolled naked in snow, downed 15 beers then gone paraskiing. In fact, this was my first trip with a six-month-old baby, so I raced back to our apartment to relieve her grandparents and, 30 minutes after the abseil, was slumped on a sofa breastfeeding, still wearing my avalanche gear and helmet.The baby\u2019s arrival had meant new powder-hunting priorities for my boyfriend and me. No more Japan and Utah \u2013 we needed a small, pretty, grandparent-friendly resort with enough easy runs for them, but satisfying steep off-piste terrain for us. Grimentz, in Switzerland\u2019s Val d\u2019Anniviers, ticked all the boxes. This hallowed backcountry wonderland is an insiders\u2019 resort, where a scattering of serious skiers like Nick, who has skied the world, have decided to settle.The S couloir was my hardest-won line, but I had in fact been riding deep powder all week \u2013 with much less effort \u2013 thanks to a 3.5km cable car, added in 2013, connecting Grimentz to Zinal. The vast rolling region in between these two resorts offers lots of off-piste kicks, but reaching them used to involve catching a bus round to Zinal and riding several slow lifts up. The fast new connection meant we could lap this incredible section several times a day, and we often had even this low-hanging fruit \u2013 powder easily accessed from a fast lift \u2013 to ourselves. On each new lap we rarely saw any other fresh lines \u2013 unheard of in major resorts, where they\u2019d be crowded and destroyed in minutes.On a longer expedition one day, we rode over rolling flanks from the Corne de Sorebois beside the Moiry glacier to the Moiry dam \u2013 where it was possible to ski a steep line right against the dam wall then out along a long shallow valley beside a bubbling stream, ending at Grimentz village.Crowded with mazots (former storage huts) and ancient chalets (some built in the 12th century) burnt black by decades of sun, Grimentz has a gorgeous, peaceful centre, with a sweet church and wooden waterways.Our big night out was to the Bourgeoisie, a council meeting place in a chalet built in 1550. We endured an hour-long Grimentz history lecture in French to be led down to the cellar afterwards for five or six free glasses of delicious, sherry-like wine poured straight from giant barrels by the convivial host. \u201cYou\u2019re not just tasting wine \u2013 you\u2019re tasting history,\u201d he said, as he passed round vintages from 1969, and samples of vin du glacier, the local speciality, an 1886 wine whose barrel has been topped up every year since.There may have been little apr\u00e8s ski, but beers in the sunshine at the resort\u2019s few bars, like Chez Floriaz by the slopes, walks and runs along hiking paths leading out into woodlands, and the odd meal out were all we needed.And everywhere I went I could look up at that bright white S, where I\u2019d carved my own mark in the snow.\u2022 Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com), which has returns Heathrow-Geneva from \u00a3108 including baggage and skis. A Swiss Travel Pass was provided by (MySwitzerland.com). The journalist paid for an apartment at Pradamont 07 in Grimentz (chalet.myswitzerland.com). Nick Parks charges \u00a3240 for a half-day for six people: backcountryadventures.co.uk ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Switzerland holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Alps holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Powder on the doorstep in Grimentz, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-12-29T06:15:06Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has experienced its warmest December since the country that founded winter tourism began keeping records 150 years ago. Clear skies and dry ground have seen the Alpine nation end the year 3.4C above the long-term historical average for December, a climatologist for the federal office of meteorology and climatology (MeteoSwiss) said on Monday. Related: UK floods and extreme global weather linked to El Ni\u00f1o and climate change  \u201cThere\u2019s no doubt about it,\u201d Stephan Bader said. \u201cIt\u2019s the warmest December in our recorded measurements dating back to 1864 \u2013 clearly. And it\u2019s especially pronounced at higher altitudes.\u201d The dry warmth and slopes bereft of snow have hurt resort owners and ski lift operators, who are already contending with Switzerland\u2019s strong currency discouraging foreign visitors. MeteoSwiss earlier this month said it expected 2015 to break the annual record for the third time in just a handful of years. Globally, this year will be the warmest on record and 2016 could be even warmer due to the El Ni\u00f1o weather pattern, the World Meteorological Organization said last month. It warned that inaction on climate change could see global average temperatures rise by 6C or more.It came as climate scientists in France said that this year\u2019s El\u00a0Ni\u00f1o was the strongest ever measured,\u00a0surpassing the one in 1997-98, both in terms of ocean surface temperature \u2013 up by more than 3C (5.4F) - and the surface area affected.\u201cIt is probably the most powerful in the last 100 years,\u201d said Jerome Lecou, a climate expert at the French weather service Meteo France, noting that accurate measurements have only existed since the mid-20th century.As was true in 1998, this year\u2019s super El Nino will have contributed to making 2015 the warmest on record, worldwide.But the reverse may also be true, with climate change boosting the power of cyclical El Nino events.\u201cIf you add the background global warming to natural weather phenomena, there\u2019s a tendency to break records left and right,\u201d Le Treut told AFP.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Climate change", "Environment", "Europe", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "El Ni\u00f1o southern oscillation"], "title": "Switzerland has warmest December ever as average temperatures rise 3.4C"},{"date": "2015-12-12T18:10:43Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Two men of Syrian origin suspected of being linked to terrorism were arrested in Geneva on Friday after traces of explosives were found, a government official has said.Prosecutor Olivier Jornot said the two men had recently arrived in Geneva when they were arrested and did not speak French. The Swiss attorney general\u2019s office said earlier that the two men being held were arrested on suspicion of making, hiding and transporting explosives, as well as for violating federal law, which bans membership of groups affiliated to Islamic State or al-Qaida.More arrests were expected in the coming days amid heightened security in the Swiss city, Jornot said. Geneva security officials had recently raised the alert level in the city in connection with a hunt for four suspects linked to the Paris attacks on 13 November, but Jornot said there was no indication that these suspects were in Switzerland. Related: Geneva on maximum alert in hunt for four Paris attack suspects The two being held were arrested on Friday on the road outside Cologny, a municipality in the canton of Geneva, SwissInfo reported. Earlier this week, Swiss media circulated police images of four men alleged to be members of Isis, whom authorities were hunting, reportedly after a US intelligence tip-off.The department would not comment on whether the four being hunted were believed to have had any direct role in the Paris attacks, where 130 people were killed by gunmen and suicide bombers.Swiss justice minister, Simonetta Sommaruga, said on Friday that authorities had no reason to believe terrorists were planning a specific attack in Switzerland.Pierre Maudet, Geneva\u2019s head of the security and economic affairs department, told the local Le Temps newspaper that security in the city would be heightened but played down connections to the recent situation in Brussels. \u201cWe can\u2019t say that an attack has been foiled today,\u201d Maudet said, but added that precautions continue \u201cwhile the more precise threat still exists\u201d.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Pair held over suspected explosives plot in Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-10-10T06:00:13Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The bombshell came as our small group sat in the warmth of the Bendolla mountain restaurant, finishing our coffees, fiddling with our avalanche transceivers and half-listening to a briefing by our backcountry guide for the morning, Brit Nick Parks. \u201cAnd then,\u201d he said, \u201cwe just abseil down into the top of the run.\u201d Hang on! What? I\u2019d heard of people doing this in super gnarly resorts like La Grave, macho beardy ski-mountaineers usually, who eat icicles for breakfast. Was I really going to have to dangle on a rope like Sly in the Cliffhanger poster, snowboard between my teeth?Seemed like it. Two hours later our small group was huddled on a snowy crest, taking turns to drink little cups of hot herbal tea from Nick\u2019s flask to recover from our hard hike from the limits of the lift network. We\u2019d climbed to a col below the Becs de Bosson peak, and up through deep powder along a ridge to the top of the steep S-shaped couloir that was our target descent. Many times that week I\u2019d stared up at the S from the village below \u2013 a streak of white carved into the cliffs like an initial in a tree trunk. Such a simple, emblematic, irresistible line, now ours for the taking.Nick secured a rope, and chucked it down over the edge. Two skiers tackled it first, their ski boots scraping over the rocks. I took tight hold of the rope, gulped down my fears and \u2013 grateful for rubbery snowboard boots \u2013 rappelled over the edge.Then, after a few tight, tense turns down the icy gulley, we were rolling, gliding, floating, flying, enjoying wildly thrilling seconds, impossible to hold on to. Too soon we were back at the pistes, shaking hands and waving goodbye, going our separate ways but still high on adrenaline.In the Sly-macho version of this story I would next have dug an ice-hole, rolled naked in snow, downed 15 beers then gone paraskiing. In fact, this was my first trip with a six-month-old baby, so I raced back to our apartment to relieve her grandparents and, 30 minutes after the abseil, was slumped on a sofa breastfeeding, still wearing my avalanche gear and helmet.The baby\u2019s arrival had meant new powder-hunting priorities for my boyfriend and me. No more Japan and Utah \u2013 we needed a small, pretty, grandparent-friendly resort with enough easy runs for them, but satisfying steep off-piste terrain for us. Grimentz, in Switzerland\u2019s Val d\u2019Anniviers, ticked all the boxes. This hallowed backcountry wonderland is an insiders\u2019 resort, where a scattering of serious skiers like Nick, who has skied the world, have decided to settle.The S couloir was my hardest-won line, but I had in fact been riding deep powder all week \u2013 with much less effort \u2013 thanks to a 3.5km cable car, added in 2013, connecting Grimentz to Zinal. The vast rolling region in between these two resorts offers lots of off-piste kicks, but reaching them used to involve catching a bus round to Zinal and riding several slow lifts up. The fast new connection meant we could lap this incredible section several times a day, and we often had even this low-hanging fruit \u2013 powder easily accessed from a fast lift \u2013 to ourselves. On each new lap we rarely saw any other fresh lines \u2013 unheard of in major resorts, where they\u2019d be crowded and destroyed in minutes.On a longer expedition one day, we rode over rolling flanks from the Corne de Sorebois beside the Moiry glacier to the Moiry dam \u2013 where it was possible to ski a steep line right against the dam wall then out along a long shallow valley beside a bubbling stream, ending at Grimentz village.Crowded with mazots (former storage huts) and ancient chalets (some built in the 12th century) burnt black by decades of sun, Grimentz has a gorgeous, peaceful centre, with a sweet church and wooden waterways.Our big night out was to the Bourgeoisie, a council meeting place in a chalet built in 1550. We endured an hour-long Grimentz history lecture in French to be led down to the cellar afterwards for five or six free glasses of delicious, sherry-like wine poured straight from giant barrels by the convivial host. \u201cYou\u2019re not just tasting wine \u2013 you\u2019re tasting history,\u201d he said, as he passed round vintages from 1969, and samples of vin du glacier, the local speciality, an 1886 wine whose barrel has been topped up every year since.There may have been little apr\u00e8s ski, but beers in the sunshine at the resort\u2019s few bars, like Chez Floriaz by the slopes, walks and runs along hiking paths leading out into woodlands, and the odd meal out were all we needed.And everywhere I went I could look up at that bright white S, where I\u2019d carved my own mark in the snow.\u2022 Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com), which has returns Heathrow-Geneva from \u00a3108 including baggage and skis. A Swiss Travel Pass was provided by (MySwitzerland.com). The journalist paid for an apartment at Pradamont 07 in Grimentz (chalet.myswitzerland.com). Nick Parks charges \u00a3240 for a half-day for six people: backcountryadventures.co.uk ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Switzerland holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Alps holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Powder on the doorstep in Grimentz, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-12-29T06:15:06Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has experienced its warmest December since the country that founded winter tourism began keeping records 150 years ago. Clear skies and dry ground have seen the Alpine nation end the year 3.4C above the long-term historical average for December, a climatologist for the federal office of meteorology and climatology (MeteoSwiss) said on Monday. Related: UK floods and extreme global weather linked to El Ni\u00f1o and climate change  \u201cThere\u2019s no doubt about it,\u201d Stephan Bader said. \u201cIt\u2019s the warmest December in our recorded measurements dating back to 1864 \u2013 clearly. And it\u2019s especially pronounced at higher altitudes.\u201d The dry warmth and slopes bereft of snow have hurt resort owners and ski lift operators, who are already contending with Switzerland\u2019s strong currency discouraging foreign visitors. MeteoSwiss earlier this month said it expected 2015 to break the annual record for the third time in just a handful of years. Globally, this year will be the warmest on record and 2016 could be even warmer due to the El Ni\u00f1o weather pattern, the World Meteorological Organization said last month. It warned that inaction on climate change could see global average temperatures rise by 6C or more.It came as climate scientists in France said that this year\u2019s El\u00a0Ni\u00f1o was the strongest ever measured,\u00a0surpassing the one in 1997-98, both in terms of ocean surface temperature \u2013 up by more than 3C (5.4F) - and the surface area affected.\u201cIt is probably the most powerful in the last 100 years,\u201d said Jerome Lecou, a climate expert at the French weather service Meteo France, noting that accurate measurements have only existed since the mid-20th century.As was true in 1998, this year\u2019s super El Nino will have contributed to making 2015 the warmest on record, worldwide.But the reverse may also be true, with climate change boosting the power of cyclical El Nino events.\u201cIf you add the background global warming to natural weather phenomena, there\u2019s a tendency to break records left and right,\u201d Le Treut told AFP.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Climate change", "Environment", "Europe", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "El Ni\u00f1o southern oscillation"], "title": "Switzerland has warmest December ever as average temperatures rise 3.4C"},{"date": "2015-12-12T18:10:43Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Two men of Syrian origin suspected of being linked to terrorism were arrested in Geneva on Friday after traces of explosives were found, a government official has said.Prosecutor Olivier Jornot said the two men had recently arrived in Geneva when they were arrested and did not speak French. The Swiss attorney general\u2019s office said earlier that the two men being held were arrested on suspicion of making, hiding and transporting explosives, as well as for violating federal law, which bans membership of groups affiliated to Islamic State or al-Qaida.More arrests were expected in the coming days amid heightened security in the Swiss city, Jornot said. Geneva security officials had recently raised the alert level in the city in connection with a hunt for four suspects linked to the Paris attacks on 13 November, but Jornot said there was no indication that these suspects were in Switzerland. Related: Geneva on maximum alert in hunt for four Paris attack suspects The two being held were arrested on Friday on the road outside Cologny, a municipality in the canton of Geneva, SwissInfo reported. Earlier this week, Swiss media circulated police images of four men alleged to be members of Isis, whom authorities were hunting, reportedly after a US intelligence tip-off.The department would not comment on whether the four being hunted were believed to have had any direct role in the Paris attacks, where 130 people were killed by gunmen and suicide bombers.Swiss justice minister, Simonetta Sommaruga, said on Friday that authorities had no reason to believe terrorists were planning a specific attack in Switzerland.Pierre Maudet, Geneva\u2019s head of the security and economic affairs department, told the local Le Temps newspaper that security in the city would be heightened but played down connections to the recent situation in Brussels. \u201cWe can\u2019t say that an attack has been foiled today,\u201d Maudet said, but added that precautions continue \u201cwhile the more precise threat still exists\u201d.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Pair held over suspected explosives plot in Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-11-11T10:26:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Proponents of Britain leaving the European Union often point to the Swiss experience as an instructive example of the benefits of life outside the EU. That\u2019s not the way Caroline Vandevyver sees it.When Switzerland decided to hold a referendum last year on mass immigration, Vandervyver, a biochemist who coordinates funding at the renowned \u00c9cole Polytechnique F\u00e9d\u00e9rale de Lausanne (EPFL), was relaxed about the possible consequences.But when a narrow majority approved the introduction of quotas and permits even for migrants from within the European Union \u2013 rupturing a longstanding agreement with Brussels \u2013 the knock-on effects were swift, and drastic. Related: Academics respond: Brexit would weaken UK university research and funding \u201cCertainly, few people here thought the outcome would have any major impact on their work,\u201d said Vandevyver, a Belgian, sitting in a conference room on the school\u2019s sleek, modernist campus on the city outskirts. \u201cSo what happened afterwards came as a big shock to many. The consequences have been quite dramatic. And depending on what happens now, they could get worse.\u201dFor those who argue that a Brexit would have little impact on the UK\u2019s world-leading universities since the government would simply cut a Swiss-style deal with Brussels, Switzerland\u2019s post-referendum fright is an interesting case study. If you question the union\u2019s core principles, it suggests, you can expect few favours.  Related: Leaving EU would be a 'disaster', British universities warn In late 2013 the EPFL, among the world\u2019s top 20 schools for basic sciences, engineering and technology, was readying for the imminent launch of Horizon 2020, the European Union\u2019s new seven-year, \u20ac79bn (\u00a356bn) science funding programme. Though never an EU member, Switzerland had negotiated full \u201cassociated country\u201d status for the previous EU programme, FP7, contributing to the pooled funding pot and \u2013 like Britain \u2013 doing very well out of it indeed: between 2007 and 2013, some 3,900 Swiss-based scientists won \u20ac1.7bn in EU grants.A similar agreement for Horizon 2020 was drawn up and ready to sign by January 2014. But within a fortnight of the referendum, Brussels called it all off. Switzerland had, in effect, voted down one of the key tenets of the union: free movement. \u201cSo we were out,\u201d said Andreas Mortensen, a professor of materials science and EPFL\u2019s vice-provost for research. \u201cRelegated to \u2018third country\u2019 status in terms of EU funding. And in fact, the first reaction was quicker even than that: the day after the referendum, there were radio reports \u2013 imagine, hundreds of Swiss Erasmus exchange students, bags packed, tickets booked to Barcelona or wherever, suddenly excluded from the programme. It was an immensely powerful signal.\u201dWorking long hours of overtime, Swiss government and EU officials have since hammered out a temporary \u201cpartial association\u201d deal so Swiss scientists can compete for about 30% of Horizon 2020 funding, including highly competitive \u2013 and hugely prestigious \u2013 European Research Council (ERC) grants. But for the remaining \u20ac55bn of the programme, including key investment for small businesses bringing innovative research to market, Switzerland remains a \u201cthird country\u201d \u2013 treated like the US or Japan.Brussels doesn't want - and can't afford \u2013 to compromise on fundamental principlesThe Swiss National Science Foundation has stepped in with money, so \u2013 for the time being \u2013 no Swiss researchers have run short of funding. And universities across the country mostly succeeded in negotiating individual accords with the hundreds of European institutions welcoming their Erasmus students. But the EU\u2019s move nonetheless came as a major shock to Switzerland\u2019s renowned scientific community \u2013 and showed the extraordinary amount of extra administrative and fundraising work that exclusion from the bloc entails. Plus, noted Vandevyver, the partial solution that has now been found is only short-term. \u201cBy law,\u201d she said, \u201cthe government has to pass the result of the referendum into law within three years \u2013 by February 2017. If we don\u2019t settle this question of free movement for the citizens of all EU member states before then, we\u2019ll be back in full third-country status.\u201dMortensen said there was \u201cno reason to suppose\u201d the EU would treat Britain any more kindly in the event of a Brexit vote. \u201cWe never joined the union, and we haven\u2019t yet decided anything completely irrevocable,\u201d he said. \u201cThere\u2019s still room for manoeuvre. But you would be choosing divorce. Judging by how we were treated, I think Brussels would probably react even more strongly towards you.\u201d Lionel Pousaz, an EPFL staffer, was even blunter: \u201cBrussels won\u2019t negotiate on free movement. The EU doesn\u2019t want \u2013 and can\u2019t afford \u2013 to compromise on such a fundamental principle.\u201d What, concretely, have been the consequences of the Brussels decision for EPFL? The school\u2019s communications director, Madeleine von Holzen, said it was too early to make a firm call. \u201cFor the time being, things are OK,\u201d she said. \u201cBut the gap between the reality and the potential risk is still too big to quantify.\u201d Although a relatively young school, EPFL has climbed fast up the world academic rankings: in terms of ERC grants, awarded on the basis of scientific excellence, the 90-plus it currently holds rival the number at far better-known, longer-established institutions such as Oxford and Cambridge. \u201cBeing kicked out of the ERC in particular, even temporarily, is a major blow,\u201d said Mortensen. \u201cYou\u2019re interviewing a top young professor, number one in his field. He may well have an ERC \u2013 it\u2019s one of the best things you can have on your CV. But it, and the \u20ac1.5m it comes with, can only be used in the EU. How likely is he to come here now, if that means saying goodbye to his ERC? We\u2019re cut off not only from the funding, but from the talent. It\u2019s harder to recruit. The number of ERCs a university has is a huge yardstick for its success. If you can no longer attract the people who have them, you\u2019re in big trouble.\u201dPousaz pointed to the school\u2019s highly successful life sciences faculty, where half of the 40 laboratory heads currently hold ERCs. \u201cThe strategy was built on attracting the very best young researchers in their field, and our success at getting EU research funding was key,\u201d he said. \u201cERCs are a vital component of the ecosystem that has made this school successful.\u201d As a result of the referendum debacle, EPFL missed two ERC application deadlines last year, Vandevyver said. Altogether, probably around 10 starting and so-called consolidator grants, for young and mid-career researchers, were lost. Some scientists were also forced to rush in applications earlier than they would have liked, almost certainly reducing their chances of success \u2013 something from which the school \u201cwill find it hard\u201d to recover. Shorn of EU funding, the school\u2019s scientists have also lost access to a range of MSc and researcher mobility schemes that, while often \u201ccomplex, bureaucratic \u2013 all that\u2019s wrong with the EU, basically\u201d, according to Mortensen, \u201care still really, really important for younger academics\u201d. And crucially, the country will play no part in defining the future shape of research funding: what fields most deserve investment, and with what means.But ultimately, Mortensen added, the money was not the most important issue. \u201cMost EU funding \u2013 except ERCs, which are all about competition \u2013 is one big mechanism facilitating and encouraging international collaboration,\u201d he said. \u201cWe\u2019re in one big European research area here. And that\u2019s incredibly important in science: all the data, absolutely everything out there, shows conclusively that international collaboration produces better scientific work.\u201dSwiss science, Mortensen said, gained its reputation through being open. \u201cGreat infrastructure, sure; good resources. But very, very open.\u201d He likened the effect of the Brussels decision to \u201cbeing in a rally, and blowing a tyre. Imagine: you\u2019re in the leading group, neck and neck, being pushed to the limit by your rivals but also collectively kind of blazing the trail, and \u2013 suddenly \u2013 you\u2019re off the pace. Out of it.\u201d ", "tags": ["EU referendum", "European Union", "UK news", "Research", "World news", "Europe", "Higher education", "Science", "Switzerland"], "title": "Whatever you do, don't become Switzerland, Swiss academics tell UK"},{"date": "2015-10-10T06:00:13Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "The bombshell came as our small group sat in the warmth of the Bendolla mountain restaurant, finishing our coffees, fiddling with our avalanche transceivers and half-listening to a briefing by our backcountry guide for the morning, Brit Nick Parks. \u201cAnd then,\u201d he said, \u201cwe just abseil down into the top of the run.\u201d Hang on! What? I\u2019d heard of people doing this in super gnarly resorts like La Grave, macho beardy ski-mountaineers usually, who eat icicles for breakfast. Was I really going to have to dangle on a rope like Sly in the Cliffhanger poster, snowboard between my teeth?Seemed like it. Two hours later our small group was huddled on a snowy crest, taking turns to drink little cups of hot herbal tea from Nick\u2019s flask to recover from our hard hike from the limits of the lift network. We\u2019d climbed to a col below the Becs de Bosson peak, and up through deep powder along a ridge to the top of the steep S-shaped couloir that was our target descent. Many times that week I\u2019d stared up at the S from the village below \u2013 a streak of white carved into the cliffs like an initial in a tree trunk. Such a simple, emblematic, irresistible line, now ours for the taking.Nick secured a rope, and chucked it down over the edge. Two skiers tackled it first, their ski boots scraping over the rocks. I took tight hold of the rope, gulped down my fears and \u2013 grateful for rubbery snowboard boots \u2013 rappelled over the edge.Then, after a few tight, tense turns down the icy gulley, we were rolling, gliding, floating, flying, enjoying wildly thrilling seconds, impossible to hold on to. Too soon we were back at the pistes, shaking hands and waving goodbye, going our separate ways but still high on adrenaline.In the Sly-macho version of this story I would next have dug an ice-hole, rolled naked in snow, downed 15 beers then gone paraskiing. In fact, this was my first trip with a six-month-old baby, so I raced back to our apartment to relieve her grandparents and, 30 minutes after the abseil, was slumped on a sofa breastfeeding, still wearing my avalanche gear and helmet.The baby\u2019s arrival had meant new powder-hunting priorities for my boyfriend and me. No more Japan and Utah \u2013 we needed a small, pretty, grandparent-friendly resort with enough easy runs for them, but satisfying steep off-piste terrain for us. Grimentz, in Switzerland\u2019s Val d\u2019Anniviers, ticked all the boxes. This hallowed backcountry wonderland is an insiders\u2019 resort, where a scattering of serious skiers like Nick, who has skied the world, have decided to settle.The S couloir was my hardest-won line, but I had in fact been riding deep powder all week \u2013 with much less effort \u2013 thanks to a 3.5km cable car, added in 2013, connecting Grimentz to Zinal. The vast rolling region in between these two resorts offers lots of off-piste kicks, but reaching them used to involve catching a bus round to Zinal and riding several slow lifts up. The fast new connection meant we could lap this incredible section several times a day, and we often had even this low-hanging fruit \u2013 powder easily accessed from a fast lift \u2013 to ourselves. On each new lap we rarely saw any other fresh lines \u2013 unheard of in major resorts, where they\u2019d be crowded and destroyed in minutes.On a longer expedition one day, we rode over rolling flanks from the Corne de Sorebois beside the Moiry glacier to the Moiry dam \u2013 where it was possible to ski a steep line right against the dam wall then out along a long shallow valley beside a bubbling stream, ending at Grimentz village.Crowded with mazots (former storage huts) and ancient chalets (some built in the 12th century) burnt black by decades of sun, Grimentz has a gorgeous, peaceful centre, with a sweet church and wooden waterways.Our big night out was to the Bourgeoisie, a council meeting place in a chalet built in 1550. We endured an hour-long Grimentz history lecture in French to be led down to the cellar afterwards for five or six free glasses of delicious, sherry-like wine poured straight from giant barrels by the convivial host. \u201cYou\u2019re not just tasting wine \u2013 you\u2019re tasting history,\u201d he said, as he passed round vintages from 1969, and samples of vin du glacier, the local speciality, an 1886 wine whose barrel has been topped up every year since.There may have been little apr\u00e8s ski, but beers in the sunshine at the resort\u2019s few bars, like Chez Floriaz by the slopes, walks and runs along hiking paths leading out into woodlands, and the odd meal out were all we needed.And everywhere I went I could look up at that bright white S, where I\u2019d carved my own mark in the snow.\u2022 Flights were provided by Swiss Air (swiss.com), which has returns Heathrow-Geneva from \u00a3108 including baggage and skis. A Swiss Travel Pass was provided by (MySwitzerland.com). The journalist paid for an apartment at Pradamont 07 in Grimentz (chalet.myswitzerland.com). Nick Parks charges \u00a3240 for a half-day for six people: backcountryadventures.co.uk ", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Switzerland holidays", "Family holidays", "Travel", "Alps holidays", "Ski resorts", "Europe holidays"], "title": "Powder on the doorstep in Grimentz, Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-12-29T06:15:06Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Switzerland has experienced its warmest December since the country that founded winter tourism began keeping records 150 years ago. Clear skies and dry ground have seen the Alpine nation end the year 3.4C above the long-term historical average for December, a climatologist for the federal office of meteorology and climatology (MeteoSwiss) said on Monday. Related: UK floods and extreme global weather linked to El Ni\u00f1o and climate change  \u201cThere\u2019s no doubt about it,\u201d Stephan Bader said. \u201cIt\u2019s the warmest December in our recorded measurements dating back to 1864 \u2013 clearly. And it\u2019s especially pronounced at higher altitudes.\u201d The dry warmth and slopes bereft of snow have hurt resort owners and ski lift operators, who are already contending with Switzerland\u2019s strong currency discouraging foreign visitors. MeteoSwiss earlier this month said it expected 2015 to break the annual record for the third time in just a handful of years. Globally, this year will be the warmest on record and 2016 could be even warmer due to the El Ni\u00f1o weather pattern, the World Meteorological Organization said last month. It warned that inaction on climate change could see global average temperatures rise by 6C or more.It came as climate scientists in France said that this year\u2019s El\u00a0Ni\u00f1o was the strongest ever measured,\u00a0surpassing the one in 1997-98, both in terms of ocean surface temperature \u2013 up by more than 3C (5.4F) - and the surface area affected.\u201cIt is probably the most powerful in the last 100 years,\u201d said Jerome Lecou, a climate expert at the French weather service Meteo France, noting that accurate measurements have only existed since the mid-20th century.As was true in 1998, this year\u2019s super El Nino will have contributed to making 2015 the warmest on record, worldwide.But the reverse may also be true, with climate change boosting the power of cyclical El Nino events.\u201cIf you add the background global warming to natural weather phenomena, there\u2019s a tendency to break records left and right,\u201d Le Treut told AFP.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "Climate change", "Environment", "Europe", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "El Ni\u00f1o southern oscillation"], "title": "Switzerland has warmest December ever as average temperatures rise 3.4C"},{"date": "2015-12-12T18:10:43Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Two men of Syrian origin suspected of being linked to terrorism were arrested in Geneva on Friday after traces of explosives were found, a government official has said.Prosecutor Olivier Jornot said the two men had recently arrived in Geneva when they were arrested and did not speak French. The Swiss attorney general\u2019s office said earlier that the two men being held were arrested on suspicion of making, hiding and transporting explosives, as well as for violating federal law, which bans membership of groups affiliated to Islamic State or al-Qaida.More arrests were expected in the coming days amid heightened security in the Swiss city, Jornot said. Geneva security officials had recently raised the alert level in the city in connection with a hunt for four suspects linked to the Paris attacks on 13 November, but Jornot said there was no indication that these suspects were in Switzerland. Related: Geneva on maximum alert in hunt for four Paris attack suspects The two being held were arrested on Friday on the road outside Cologny, a municipality in the canton of Geneva, SwissInfo reported. Earlier this week, Swiss media circulated police images of four men alleged to be members of Isis, whom authorities were hunting, reportedly after a US intelligence tip-off.The department would not comment on whether the four being hunted were believed to have had any direct role in the Paris attacks, where 130 people were killed by gunmen and suicide bombers.Swiss justice minister, Simonetta Sommaruga, said on Friday that authorities had no reason to believe terrorists were planning a specific attack in Switzerland.Pierre Maudet, Geneva\u2019s head of the security and economic affairs department, told the local Le Temps newspaper that security in the city would be heightened but played down connections to the recent situation in Brussels. \u201cWe can\u2019t say that an attack has been foiled today,\u201d Maudet said, but added that precautions continue \u201cwhile the more precise threat still exists\u201d.", "tags": ["Switzerland", "World news", "Europe"], "title": "Pair held over suspected explosives plot in Switzerland"},{"date": "2015-11-11T10:26:47Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "Proponents of Britain leaving the European Union often point to the Swiss experience as an instructive example of the benefits of life outside the EU. That\u2019s not the way Caroline Vandevyver sees it.When Switzerland decided to hold a referendum last year on mass immigration, Vandervyver, a biochemist who coordinates funding at the renowned \u00c9cole Polytechnique F\u00e9d\u00e9rale de Lausanne (EPFL), was relaxed about the possible consequences.But when a narrow majority approved the introduction of quotas and permits even for migrants from within the European Union \u2013 rupturing a longstanding agreement with Brussels \u2013 the knock-on effects were swift, and drastic. Related: Academics respond: Brexit would weaken UK university research and funding \u201cCertainly, few people here thought the outcome would have any major impact on their work,\u201d said Vandevyver, a Belgian, sitting in a conference room on the school\u2019s sleek, modernist campus on the city outskirts. \u201cSo what happened afterwards came as a big shock to many. The consequences have been quite dramatic. And depending on what happens now, they could get worse.\u201dFor those who argue that a Brexit would have little impact on the UK\u2019s world-leading universities since the government would simply cut a Swiss-style deal with Brussels, Switzerland\u2019s post-referendum fright is an interesting case study. If you question the union\u2019s core principles, it suggests, you can expect few favours.  Related: Leaving EU would be a 'disaster', British universities warn In late 2013 the EPFL, among the world\u2019s top 20 schools for basic sciences, engineering and technology, was readying for the imminent launch of Horizon 2020, the European Union\u2019s new seven-year, \u20ac79bn (\u00a356bn) science funding programme. Though never an EU member, Switzerland had negotiated full \u201cassociated country\u201d status for the previous EU programme, FP7, contributing to the pooled funding pot and \u2013 like Britain \u2013 doing very well out of it indeed: between 2007 and 2013, some 3,900 Swiss-based scientists won \u20ac1.7bn in EU grants.A similar agreement for Horizon 2020 was drawn up and ready to sign by January 2014. But within a fortnight of the referendum, Brussels called it all off. Switzerland had, in effect, voted down one of the key tenets of the union: free movement. \u201cSo we were out,\u201d said Andreas Mortensen, a professor of materials science and EPFL\u2019s vice-provost for research. \u201cRelegated to \u2018third country\u2019 status in terms of EU funding. And in fact, the first reaction was quicker even than that: the day after the referendum, there were radio reports \u2013 imagine, hundreds of Swiss Erasmus exchange students, bags packed, tickets booked to Barcelona or wherever, suddenly excluded from the programme. It was an immensely powerful signal.\u201dWorking long hours of overtime, Swiss government and EU officials have since hammered out a temporary \u201cpartial association\u201d deal so Swiss scientists can compete for about 30% of Horizon 2020 funding, including highly competitive \u2013 and hugely prestigious \u2013 European Research Council (ERC) grants. But for the remaining \u20ac55bn of the programme, including key investment for small businesses bringing innovative research to market, Switzerland remains a \u201cthird country\u201d \u2013 treated like the US or Japan.Brussels doesn't want - and can't afford \u2013 to compromise on fundamental principlesThe Swiss National Science Foundation has stepped in with money, so \u2013 for the time being \u2013 no Swiss researchers have run short of funding. And universities across the country mostly succeeded in negotiating individual accords with the hundreds of European institutions welcoming their Erasmus students. But the EU\u2019s move nonetheless came as a major shock to Switzerland\u2019s renowned scientific community \u2013 and showed the extraordinary amount of extra administrative and fundraising work that exclusion from the bloc entails. Plus, noted Vandevyver, the partial solution that has now been found is only short-term. \u201cBy law,\u201d she said, \u201cthe government has to pass the result of the referendum into law within three years \u2013 by February 2017. If we don\u2019t settle this question of free movement for the citizens of all EU member states before then, we\u2019ll be back in full third-country status.\u201dMortensen said there was \u201cno reason to suppose\u201d the EU would treat Britain any more kindly in the event of a Brexit vote. \u201cWe never joined the union, and we haven\u2019t yet decided anything completely irrevocable,\u201d he said. \u201cThere\u2019s still room for manoeuvre. But you would be choosing divorce. Judging by how we were treated, I think Brussels would probably react even more strongly towards you.\u201d Lionel Pousaz, an EPFL staffer, was even blunter: \u201cBrussels won\u2019t negotiate on free movement. The EU doesn\u2019t want \u2013 and can\u2019t afford \u2013 to compromise on such a fundamental principle.\u201d What, concretely, have been the consequences of the Brussels decision for EPFL? The school\u2019s communications director, Madeleine von Holzen, said it was too early to make a firm call. \u201cFor the time being, things are OK,\u201d she said. \u201cBut the gap between the reality and the potential risk is still too big to quantify.\u201d Although a relatively young school, EPFL has climbed fast up the world academic rankings: in terms of ERC grants, awarded on the basis of scientific excellence, the 90-plus it currently holds rival the number at far better-known, longer-established institutions such as Oxford and Cambridge. \u201cBeing kicked out of the ERC in particular, even temporarily, is a major blow,\u201d said Mortensen. \u201cYou\u2019re interviewing a top young professor, number one in his field. He may well have an ERC \u2013 it\u2019s one of the best things you can have on your CV. But it, and the \u20ac1.5m it comes with, can only be used in the EU. How likely is he to come here now, if that means saying goodbye to his ERC? We\u2019re cut off not only from the funding, but from the talent. It\u2019s harder to recruit. The number of ERCs a university has is a huge yardstick for its success. If you can no longer attract the people who have them, you\u2019re in big trouble.\u201dPousaz pointed to the school\u2019s highly successful life sciences faculty, where half of the 40 laboratory heads currently hold ERCs. \u201cThe strategy was built on attracting the very best young researchers in their field, and our success at getting EU research funding was key,\u201d he said. \u201cERCs are a vital component of the ecosystem that has made this school successful.\u201d As a result of the referendum debacle, EPFL missed two ERC application deadlines last year, Vandevyver said. Altogether, probably around 10 starting and so-called consolidator grants, for young and mid-career researchers, were lost. Some scientists were also forced to rush in applications earlier than they would have liked, almost certainly reducing their chances of success \u2013 something from which the school \u201cwill find it hard\u201d to recover. Shorn of EU funding, the school\u2019s scientists have also lost access to a range of MSc and researcher mobility schemes that, while often \u201ccomplex, bureaucratic \u2013 all that\u2019s wrong with the EU, basically\u201d, according to Mortensen, \u201care still really, really important for younger academics\u201d. And crucially, the country will play no part in defining the future shape of research funding: what fields most deserve investment, and with what means.But ultimately, Mortensen added, the money was not the most important issue. \u201cMost EU funding \u2013 except ERCs, which are all about competition \u2013 is one big mechanism facilitating and encouraging international collaboration,\u201d he said. \u201cWe\u2019re in one big European research area here. And that\u2019s incredibly important in science: all the data, absolutely everything out there, shows conclusively that international collaboration produces better scientific work.\u201dSwiss science, Mortensen said, gained its reputation through being open. \u201cGreat infrastructure, sure; good resources. But very, very open.\u201d He likened the effect of the Brussels decision to \u201cbeing in a rally, and blowing a tyre. Imagine: you\u2019re in the leading group, neck and neck, being pushed to the limit by your rivals but also collectively kind of blazing the trail, and \u2013 suddenly \u2013 you\u2019re off the pace. Out of it.\u201d ", "tags": ["EU referendum", "European Union", "UK news", "Research", "World news", "Europe", "Higher education", "Science", "Switzerland"], "title": "Whatever you do, don't become Switzerland, Swiss academics tell UK"},{"date": "2015-10-05T05:00:17Z", "country": "switzerland", "content": "\u201cIt\u2019s cold outside\u201d was the hardest-working slogan of the 1975 Euro referendum. For the Britons of the 1970s \u2013 recovering from fuel shortages and the three-day week \u2013 the story of a European future was more convincing than imperial nostalgia, the warm embrace of Washington or the charm of the Commonwealth. But what about this time round? The assumption of pro-Europeans has been that the sceptics will be a backward-facing rabble with little to say about the future. Are they right?So far the Eurosceptics have told us much more about what they are against than what they are for. They attack the euro, austerity, the common agricultural policy, red tape, free movement. But once the referendum starts, the sceptics will need to reveal their own plans for Britain\u2019s future. One of the biggest questions is whether the four main variants of Euroscepticism can coalesce into a single campaign \u2013 and whether the media will force them to develop a single alternative.Of those four visions, \u201cSingapore on steroids\u201d is the most exotic account of our island future. Douglas Carswell \u2013 Ukip\u2019s first member of parliament and the politician most closely associated with this vision \u2013 tells me that he is not sure if he ever used the phrase, and he is no fan of Singapore\u2019s hereditary and authoritarian system of government. However, his vision of Britain as an outward-looking trading nation with a large financial sector, high levels of migration, a small state, low taxes and an internet-enabled democracy does resemble Asia\u2019s most successful city-state in many regards. Related: Watch Nigel Lawson: he is a safer bet than Ukip for Eurosceptics | Martin Kettle Like Singapore, Britain would \u2013according to this vision \u2013 have an active foreign policy, but it would try to extract economic opportunities from its relationships with others, rather than trying to shape the world. The state would shrink dramatically: government spending in Singapore is 14.5 % of GDP, compared with the United Kingdom\u2019s 45%. It is less equal than any country in the developed world (even the United States) and nearly four in 10 of its population are immigrants.Carswell is refreshingly blunt about the need for migrant labour: \u201cOur grandparents\u2019 generation had to get to grips with the idea of importing strawberries from Spain and mangetout from Kenya. Today we live in a world where labour mobility is inevitable, and unless you want to become like North Korea you need to accept it. You can no more ban labour mobility than food imports.\u201dNot so, claims the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, whose vision is of a little England that restricts migration and withdraws from the common market to regain control of sovereignty. He appeals to the socially conservative instincts of people left behind by globalisation. At the last election, Ukip pledged to limit highly skilled work visas to 50,000 per annum \u2013 including those from the EU \u2013 while applying a moratorium on unskilled and low-skilled labour over the course of the parliament. Given the numbers of people who are leaving Britain every year, that would mean going from a growing population to one that shrank by hundreds of thousands of people a year. And a falling population would mean a downsized economy (Farage has said that \u201csome things are more important than money\u201d) and a downsized foreign policy. When I spoke to Farage he described Tony Blair\u2019s messianic foreign policy as a post-imperial hang-up. Farage claims that no party in Britain has been more non-interventionist than Ukip: \u201cGoing into Afghanistan to make the streets of Britain safer is not something I ever saw the logic of \u2026 We couldn\u2019t see the point of Libya. We don\u2019t know what is going in Syria \u2026 We don\u2019t want to get involved in any foreign wars.\u201d Did Farage support any of the wars that Britain has been involved in since the second world war? \u201cThe Falklands, I\u2019d have gone myself. And the first Gulf war.\u201d Related: Without Ukip, Douglas Carswell could be a brilliant independent MP | Martin Bell A third vision is of a leftish \u201cPeople\u2019s Republic of Britain\u201d. Before he became leader of the Labour party, Jeremy Corbyn called the EU an organisation \u201cthat continues to pursue its central goal of being a place where big business has free rein to operate\u201d. Since his leadership began he has tempered his Europhobia, but there is a persistent strand of leftish Euroscepticism that has been given added passion by the impact of austerity in the eurozone.Kelvin Hopkins, one of a handful of Labour MPs who support withdrawal from Europe, claimed in the Morning Star that the EU was \u201ca branch of global neoliberalism, of laissez-faire capitalism, constructed to raise up the power of the market and progressively dismantle the socialist and social democratic structures which were established and were so successful in the immediate post-war decades\u201d.Others on the left call for a populist campaign for a \u201cLexit\u201d \u2013 a leftwing exit from the EU. At its heart would be a campaign to revive the ability of governments to implement the sort of industrial activism needed to protect domestic industries; opposition to the TTIP \u2013 the Transatlantic Trade Investment Partnership; and a programme of nationalisation of rail and postal services (though it is not clear to me that this would be illegal under existing EU rules).There is a fourth vision of \u201cout\u201d that tries to look as much like \u201cin\u201d as possible \u2013 a model that can best be described as \u201cbigger Switzerland\u201d: no slashing of the state, no return of industrial planning, no closed borders. Its proponents claim that they would preserve the best elements of the EU while shedding the worst, and negotiate a magical set of treaties that enshrine this relationship. The choice is partly technical \u2013 what kind of trading arrangement do we want with the EU? What kind of border control?There are two variants of this vision. Either Britain will try to keep access to the single market and negotiate a deal like Norway or Switzerland \u2013 a kind of EU minus. Both basically accept free movement (they have higher percentages of EU nationals living in them than does the UK), sign up to almost all EU law, and pay almost as much into the EU budget as the UK. They can theoretically choose not to apply EU regulations \u2013 though because they would lose access to the EU market in those areas, they have never actually done it. But they have big disadvantages: no voice in EU decision-making and no access to trade deals the EU strikes with the rest of the world.The other model is Turkey, which has a customs union with the EU. Ankara neither benefits from nor offers free movement to the EU, and doesn\u2019t need to apply all EU law. It doesn\u2019t get access to the single market or EU global trade (though it is forced to open its market to everyone the EU strikes a deal with).\u201cThe European project is inherently conservative,\u201d says Carswell. Like other Eurosceptics, he casts Brussels as the ultimate blob, an alien force that subverts our democracy. But what the Eurosceptics do not acknowledge is that most of their ideas aren\u2019t made impossible by the EU \u2013 but rather by the British electorate.Today\u2019s EU is as accommodating to free-market Slovakia with its flat tax and minimal state and Estonia with its internet-enabled democracy as it is to the flexible mixed economies of Scandinavia and the less flexible France, with its 57% of public spending and huge public sector. It would have little room for Farage\u2019s utopia of no immigration or the left\u2019s nostalgia for a closed managed economy.However, it is not the EU that keeps Carswell from reducing the British state by two-thirds, or the radical left from nationalising the postal services \u2013 it is the British people, who have so far shown no great enthusiasm for these ideas. Hijacking the referendum and British scepticism about the union to promote these visions has been a clever move \u2013 but in reality the critics\u2019 proposals have less to do with the EU than they make out.", "tags": ["EU referendum", "Douglas Carswell", "UK Independence party (Ukip)", "Politics", "European Union", "Europe", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "What would a UK outside the EU look like? | Mark Leonard"},